ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u1	Minister, my question concerns the contacts you will have with your French colleague, because I have been informed that the meeting has not yet taken place. I will therefore repeat my question at the beginning of February.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u2	Mr Nollet, there is an informal JHA on 24 and 25 January. I will also meet with her at a meeting in Lille on nuclear waste. I will be able to report back to you on these meetings in early February.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u3	Minister, I will therefore come back to you later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u4	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 22602 by Mr Friart, 22729 by Mrs Jadin, 22735 by Mrs Thoron and 22745 by Mrs Jadin are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Kir's point 22774 was deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u5	First of all, Minister, I wish you a good year. I mean that sincerely, it's not ironic. I hope that we will get good answers to the questions we will ask. On Friday evening 22 December, you clarified that there had been talk of Sudan or the Sudan deal in the nuclear cabinet that morning and that you were instructed to have an independent investigation conducted in the very short term into the situation in Sudan and the Sudan deal. At the request of the nuclear cabinet, you asked the independent Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons to conduct that investigation. Mr Van den Bulck, Commissioner-General, then promised to start the investigation immediately and in full independence. I have the following questions. What is the exact question you have asked Mr Van den Bulck or what exactly is the task you have given him? Was he asked to investigate only the possible abuses or tortures in Sudan or to investigate what has happened to the people who have been deported? Was he also asked to investigate what preceded the expulsions, including the arrangements with Sudan, the way in which the interviews were conducted, the verification by Belgium of data provided by Sudan, the ECHR investigation and the follow-up arrangements? I would like much more clarity on the above aspects and on what is or is not covered by the research. Was it agreed in any way within the nuclear cabinet that these matters would be the subject of an investigation by a body other than the CGVS? I am thinking, for example, of an audit or a future audit. I would like a very comprehensive answer to those questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u6	Mrs De Coninck, my best wishes also to you and to all members of the committee. I wish you all a lot of fun in 2018 in all possible meanings of the word. You asked me to answer all the questions in full this year. The people who follow this committee frequently will be able to testify that this is always my practice. Then I'll come to your questions. I did indeed ask the CGVS, on behalf of the nuclear cabinet, to examine the truthfulness of the testimonies of the repatriated Sudanese people, to investigate the risk for repatriated persons in Sudan and to assess the risks they are exposed to there. I also asked for the relevant departments in the European Union and the United Nations to be involved. The CGVS will treat this investigation independently, as it is expected to conduct. I didn't ask for any other investigations or a separate audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your brief reply. I do not think this is a story of "for or against Theo," I think this is a story of a government's collective responsibility regarding the Sudan deal. That Sudan deal is what it is. It worked out the way it did. For the sake of clarity, I am not opposed to a correct migration policy, nor to a correct expulsion policy, but we live in the rule of law and the rules must be respected, both before and after. This is a crisis. Don't waste a crisis . Have the whole deal investigated. What happened before? What happened after the actual expulsion? How can we ensure that this is done better in the future? We need to learn from that. I asked the Secretary of State a few times if there was an interpreter present for the identification of the Sudanese at the Sudan Embassy. He said he wasn't, but he wanted to consider this for the future. After all, we know that things have been said there that the people of the DVZ have not understood. I am now setting this example, but I have also asked other questions about this whole procedure. If the research is only allocated to the CGVS, I wonder to what extent they can objectively examine their colleagues, because that is what they are. I am not insinuating that the CGVS would not be able or will not be able to do so, but you will understand that this is a very delicate matter. I think you should take a good look at what the assignments are and how we can sort all this out. Above all, we must ensure that this is dealt with in a better way in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u8	Minister, thank you for your good wishes. I also wish you a great year 2018. In the course of March, you told us that the pilot project for taser testing in 15 police areas was to be completed and evaluated six months later. Today, we are beyond this deadline, this is an opportunity for me to ask you about this project and to ask you about the legal framework around the use of this type of weapon. Minister, what is the outcome of this test phase? How many policemen did they use the taser? How often? Have any incidents been noted? Have you heard the police about the relevance of the use of this weapon and its impact on their daily work? Have there been any trainings? How will the next one be organized? What is the next deadline? What about the legal framework to legally protect users of this new tool?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u9	Mrs Ben Hamou, all administrative formalities have been strictly complied with and this has taken time. On December 22 and 27, 2017, I authorized 14 police zones to acquire, hold and carry the electric pulse gun from the time that end-users have completed the training and received the individual authorization to use, as provided for in Ministerial Circular GPI 48. This means that the purchase, training, use and evaluation will take place within the following months. For your information, the 14 police zones are as follows. For the Brussels Region: Midi, Brussels-West; for the Walloon Region: Boraine, Liège, Arlon/Attert/Habay/Martelange, Beloeil/Leuze-en-Hainaut, Mons/Quévy, Aiseau-Presles/Châtelet/Farciennes; for the Flemish Region: Alost, Westkust, Hasselt, Bruges, Ostend and Antwerp. With regard to the training for the use of the electric pulse gun, it will take place over a period of three days of six hours for trainers and over two days of eight hours for users. Each of these trainings will consist of half theory and half practical exercises. The training of trainers will be given by trainers appointed by the National Police Academy and will be organised in early spring 2018. The training of users will be provided by the trainers in the 14 areas covered by the project. 28 trainers will be trained, i.e. two per zone. The number of officers trained per zone is left to the discretion of each head of corps. In accordance with the above-mentioned authorizations, the possession and carrying of this weapon is permitted only when the following missions are carried out: missions of a special assistance unit as covered by IPF 81, intervention and support missions in a prison or cell, in accordance with the "limited space" procedure, support missions for the transfer of detainees with threats or risks, missions from a support unit to the intervention service or a front-line team. Whatever the mission carried out, the use of the electric pulse pistol may only be carried out in accordance with the requirements of section 37 of the Police Function Act, which makes any use of force subject to the prior existence of a legitimate ground: that is, self-defence or self-defence or in order to counter resistance to the implementation of a measure depriving of subsidiary liberty, reasonable and proportionate to the objective pursued. This legal framework has already been mentioned in this committee at the end of the year. For example, on 20 December, I answered questions Nos. 22606 and 22607 from Mr Flahaux. It is important to recall that the authorizations granted clearly determine not only the missions but above all the circumstances in which the weapon can be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would like to return briefly to the legal framework. Is it already established? Is it legal? Do you expect the test phase to be completed? According to my contacts with the trade unions, there would be no legal framework to be able to use these weapons on the ground. You weren't very clear about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u11	The legal framework already exists because it is the same as for the use of batons and pepper sprays. It's not a gun.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u12	Do you include him in this group of weapons, in article 37?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u13	That's right. It's not a gun. This requires a specific legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u14	Madam President, Minister, you mentioned in your general policy note the outsourcing, if not sometimes the removal, of a series of specific tasks that concern different police services. The police on horseback, the staff responsible for listening to telephones and audio-visual hearings, road education and the regulation of traffic at the airport are concerned. You also mentioned the departments responsible for the transportation of values, human resources and logistics. In addition, you mentioned a reorganization of the internal position. We have already had an opportunity to discuss this, but I would like more details. As your main argument is the desire to develop police capabilities to better meet security needs, my questions are as follows. For each service and task set out, can you tell us what police capacity the outsourcing or removal will release? For each outsourced service and task, what amounts will be paid by the police? What will be the financial impact?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u15	Mrs Ben Hamou, let me first make a final point. The key task plan started in December 2015 in accordance with the government agreement does not aim to privatize a series of police activities or missions. It aims to increase police, federal and local capacity. It should enable the police to reorient themselves to their core missions and to better respond to the terrorist threat. That being said, here is the status of the tasks you indicate. With regard to horse police, the project has allowed a real reorientation of 55 full-time equivalents (FTEs) at the level of operational personnel. Thirty have been re-directed to Public Safety (DFA DAS). The remaining 25 have obtained other police functions through mobility. With regard to administrative and logistical support, the results still need to be confirmed, in particular because of the links with other files, such as the medical records for veterinary care. Other direct and indirect gains (decrease in operating costs, food, horse purchase prices, etc.) are the subject of a more precise calculation under way within the federal police. With respect to the recording and transcription of wiretapping, the project resulted in a gain of 6 to 8 FTEs. However, this capacity was immediately absorbed by the explosion in the number of requests for terrorist-related cases. In the area of road education, the project resulted in the reorientation of 25 police officers to the direction of the road police, as well as the essential and operational tasks of the traffic police. As regards the regulation of traffic at the airport, the project led to the reorientation of ten FTEs. The outsourcing of internal human resources and some other logistical tasks, with the exception of strategic or tactical activities, are very complex and highly technical projects. Therefore, it is not possible, at the present stage of the file, to provide an quantified estimate. The analyses are still under way with the help of external partners such as Selor and various universities. Before deciding on final choices and the financial impact, the results will still have to be discussed with the trade union organisations. I would also point out that it was agreed, at the beginning of the key tasks project, that the operation should be budget neutral, with the exception of the construction site of the creation of a Directorate of Security and Protection (DAB). Other projects aim to move smaller task capabilities to essential tasks. This is certainly not an economy project, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is a question of stopping the distribution of mail within the federal police. You're planning to use an external service. In a way, you're privatizing this service. When I set out all the other services in my introduction, it also concerns CALOG staff. What will become of this administrative staff? It is a job that the administrative executive or the police officers at the end of their career could also do. My first concern is what the future of these administrative frameworks will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u17	Mrs. Ben Hamou, the study is still under way. So I don't have the final results. Using a police car to bring letters from one station to another is not really an essential task of the police. These police officers are better off in their policing duties.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u18	I fully agree and agree with you on this point. But you know very well that an administrative staff is carrying out these missions. I worked in a local police area and I can tell you that the internal mail was distributed by the administrative manager. And at the federal level, there are administrative staff who transcribe auditions or wiretapping. What is the future of this administrative framework? You don't quite answer my questions. I will come back soon for further clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u19	Mrs Ben Hamou, as you know, at the time, I proposed to this committee that the various projects should be reviewed regularly, for example twice a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u20	This was done in 2015. I will submit the application to the Chair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u21	Madam President, Minister, I have asked you twice, on 25 October and 29 November, about the closure of the Doel 3 power plant, following the discovery of serious damage in the concrete of the ultimate rescue bunker, which houses in particular the emergency pumps and diesel generators. Your answers made it possible to realize the seriousness of the situation and the reason why the plant was going to be closed so long. I come back to the subject again because AFCN has loaded Electrabel hard with a very important element in its communication to the newspaper Le Soir and to the TV news of RTBF on 4 January. The Agency considers that it is a lack of maintenance and a lack of controls, in short, negligence, which are at the root of the problem found in concrete. So far, in your answers, when I was asking you about the cause of this incident, you were ludicrously talking about "environmental conditions out of use for concrete". My first question, therefore, is why this element was not included in your response of 29 November. My second question is to see how you analyse this new information, this nonchalance which, in the head of Electrabel, is added, it must be recalled, to the evaporation of the safety culture observed a few months ago. What measures have been taken or will be taken specifically related to this inappropriate behaviour? Opposite, ENGIE always says, and this is the title of its communiqué, not to understand the reaction of the AFCN. I think that says a lot. My final question is to identify when each of the other reactors has been or will be inspected to verify whether it suffers from the same problem in addition to the analysis already carried out on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u22	Mr President, Mr Nollet, following the information in the press over the last few days on the possible lack of maintenance of Doel 3, I can confirm indeed that shortcomings have been identified in the particular case of Doel 3 bunker. ENGIE Electrabel is responsible for the maintenance of these facilities and must define a suitable program to ensure that each equipment is effectively capable of fulfilling the security functions assigned to it, as for the bunker, protection against a major external incident. This type of program includes different elements ranging from inspections to timely maintenance and repairs, i.e., prior to a loss of function. In monitoring the concrete condition of the premises, ENGIE Electrabel did not make a proper assessment of the situation during the previous inspections, not taking the necessary corrective measures sufficiently early. These elements of lack of maintenance were not provided in previous parliamentary questions because the detailed analysis was not yet available. AFCN has since received a more detailed analysis. ENGIE Electrabel itself has identified broader aspects that have led to such a situation also affecting organizational issues. ENGIE Electrabel identifies areas for improvement in the management and maintenance of civil engineering. I would like to point out that Electrabel is well aware of the problem. This is the most important element of the solution. ENGIE Electrabel's analysis has identified not only the technical causes but also the organisational and human factors. ENGIE Electrabel has defined an action plan to address this. The AFCN and its technical support will follow its implementation, both for technical and non-technical aspects. As regards the second point, the problems are not of the same nature as the previous safety culture problems affecting the Tihange site and related to the behaviour of certain operators, nor are the questions relating to pure studies in other areas. I would also like to stress that this is not a general problem. The report of the Topical Peer Review on Aging Management has just been published on the AFCN website. Electrabel has a correct aging management program as a whole. However, it is not perfect, as the present incident shows. I invite you to read this report. As far as the last point is concerned, you have already raised the issue twice. I would like to inform you that the situation is not similar for the different units. Protective measures have already been taken in the past for Tihange 2 and 3. The design of Doel 1 and 2 and Tihange 1 is significantly different. A protective coating exists at Doel 4 and the valves are watertighter. These points were discussed with the operator. The next inspections of similar premises in the other units are planned during the next scheduled stops on the "Transparency" site of ENGIE Electrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u23	My reply has several points. With regard to the first point, if you had not previously brought me the elements that underline responsibility, as you have done today, it is because these elements were not at your disposal. Nevertheless, I have a problem with this. Indeed, I have already questioned you on 25 October and 29 November. This means that this kind of information only happens to you with several months of delay. In itself, this is a real problem, which prevents a proper assessment. So I should ask you five times the same questions, in each incident, because you don't have the information. However, in your answers, you did not specify that we were in a provisional phase of analysis. When I ask you other questions, you sometimes say that you have only first elements. However, in the answers you provided me earlier, you never said that the analysis was still under way. I come to my second point. I am aware that we are not in the same situation as when the safety culture is evaporated. Nevertheless, Electrabel's reflex is exactly the same. They say they are well aware of having caused a problem, but promise not to. It's exactly the same state of mind today. I therefore allow myself to make the parallel, even if I agree with you that this is not the same situation. Only the reflex is the same. I want to go back to the other power plants. I really want to be sure that this control is not feasible because the building is inaccessible. I'm surprised by this information. So we have to wait until the power plant is off to get access to it. Do you confirm that it is not possible to conduct this audit in operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u24	I confirm it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u25	All right. I don't have the same information, but I'll check it out. Why did I allow myself specifically to rest this question? I've read your previous answers. You say that the operator concluded that the situation was acceptable. Personally, however, I find it difficult to trust the operator in certain situations. However, when the Agency concludes that the situation is not problematic, it is different. Here, the fact of relying solely on the operator's words and not having the AFCN verify whether what the operator says is correct seems to me to be "limit". While you are now providing specific elements on the difference between situations, I maintain that it would be good for the Federal Agency to validate the operator's findings to ensure that there is no problem. I know they are reading our exchanges, but I ask you to ask them to check that there is no problem in the other plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u26	Minister, at our meeting on October 25, I asked you about the Japanese company Kobe Steel, which had just admitted that it had falsified the performance of products delivered to more than 200 customers for years. The company admitted that its employees had provided false quality inspection reports for products used in the automotive sector, but also in the nuclear industry. You replied that AFCN could not yet confirm whether a Belgian nuclear power plant was a direct or indirect customer of Kobe Steel. So I was asking you again on November 29 and you were telling me that you had not yet received all the answers from Electrabel. I thought it was pretty amazing that Electrabel was not able to answer relatively basic questions more quickly. In December, you told me that Kobe Steel had supplied welding material used in the manufacture of steam generators from Tihange 2, Doel 1 and Doel 2, but that you still had to wait until the information from the subcontractors of the higher levels came to you to get a full view. Minister, I therefore come back to you today to know the answers – which I hope are now complete. Has one of our nuclear power plants been, through subcontractors, an indirect customer of Kobe Steel? What are the components that may be affected? Have you received all the guarantees that direct and indirect falsifications (steam generators) (via subcontractors) do not pose any risk to our plants and therefore to workers and residents? Are we witnessing a second scandal, after the Creusot Forge case which is still far from having revealed its true magnitude?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u27	Mr Nollet, the situation has changed little since December. ENGIE Electrabel expects confirmation from its various direct contractors that no Kobe Steel material has been used in the manufacture of components of our nuclear power plants. It is confirmed that no direct subcontractor of its contractors uses Kobe Steel, with the exception of Mitsubishi for the manufacture of the Tihange 2, Doel 1 and Doel 2 steam generators. With regard to higher-level subcontractors, the information received so far by Electrabel is consistent, but this information is not expected to be complete until early February. At present, only the case of the supply of welding materials used in the manufacture of the steam generators of Tihange 2, Doel 1 and Doel 2, which I have previously reported to you, has been detected. The contractor who supplied these steam generators to Electrabel, Mitsubishi, states that they are not involved in cases of fraud. Electrabel asked and awaits the evidence of these claims. As I have already told you in your previous question on the subject, it seems that Kobe Steel's problem is smaller than Creusot Forge's file for the nuclear industry, because Kobe Steel supplies fewer products for nuclear power plants and that falsifications are limited to the company's last ten years of production. However, this is still a worrying problem, which the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCCA) is obviously following closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u28	I will come back to you in February, hoping to be able to close the case definitively by finding that there is no problem with this aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u29	Mr. Chair, Minister, Happy New Year 2018. On 2 January, the press reported that the internal control of the Brussels-West police was investigating a chief inspector who allegedly posted racist messages on his Facebook page, which was confirmed by the police zone. Photos of his Facebook profile have since been published and it can be seen that the policeman has posted and shared many very hostile and derogatory images of Islam and immigrants in a global way. The spokesman for the Brussels-West police zone responded by saying: "We have indeed received several complaints about these posts and have opened an investigation. The investigation is in the hands of the internal control department and we are waiting for the results in order to decide what sanctions will be taken." According to the press, the policeman is not yet suspended but is said to have been assigned to traffic. These facts are of great gravity. According to internal contacts with the police, noises have been circulating for several months – precisely since June 2017 – on the statements published by this police officer. How was it that it took six months for an internal investigation to be opened? How many complaints were filed with respect to this particular case and when was the first of them? Morally and ethically, the words written and relayed by this policeman are openly racist and Islamophobic and therefore totally unacceptable. From a legal and disciplinary point of view internal to the police, at what point can it be considered that the content of a comment on social media is a fault? What are the current provisions for sanctioning such statements? What sanctions can this policeman face? Are there currently preventive measures or procedures within the police to detect such racist behaviour on social networks? If not, would it not be appropriate to set up such procedures or specific training when possible slippages are found? Finally, how many complaints of racism or discrimination have been filed internally with the police or against police officers in the last three years (2015, 2016 and 2017) in order to monitor the evolution of this type of phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u30	Mr. Vanden Burre, I was informed that a complaint was filed in June 2017. The file was sent to the individual investigations department of the Brussels-West zone. A report has been prepared by the Chief Inspector for acts of incitement to discrimination, hatred or violence against a group or community (racism and xenophobia). The minutes were forwarded to the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels, who decided to close it without further action. Nevertheless, in October, the Chief of Staff decided to open a pre-trial investigation on his behalf. Following the publication, at the end of December 2017, of press articles involving this chief inspector, the police area management opened a new administrative file and a pre-investigation began on 3 January. I cannot make further statements about the internal content or disciplinary measures of the local police area. As a reminder, every police officer must enforce the law and must therefore, a fortiori, respect it himself. More specifically, police officers are subject to specific legislation in the Integrated Police Act, the Disciplinary Act and the Code of Ethics. The legislator has not expressly provided for members of the police services to commit offences related to Islamophobia, but any police officer must avoid any conduct that might undermine the dignity of the office. It also avoids any behaviour that could undermine public confidence in the police, even outside the service. Any disciplinary action will be taken after investigation. Disciplinary sanctions are included in the disciplinary law specific to members of the police services. In addition, each aspirant, at any level, attends an ethics course during his or her basic training at which these principles are explained. Continuing training is also provided in-house, some with the assistance of the Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Racism. Finally, some of these trainings are given at the Caserne Dossin in Malines, namely the memorial, the museum and the documentation centre on Holocaust and human rights. I can now give you the count of complaints sent directly by citizens to the Standing Committee P in which a problem of racism or discrimination is raised. The total number of complaints in 2015 was 2,561 of which 73 related to racism or discrimination. That's almost 3 per cent. In 2016, the number of complaints was 2,663 of which 96 were related to racism or discrimination, i.e. 3.6%. In 2017, the number of complaints was 2,737 of which 69 were related to racism or discrimination, i.e. 2.5%. Two points need to be made. Counting for 2017 should be considered as a provisional estimate as the data coding for 2017 is being finalized. Counting is effective until a certain day, for the rest, we extrapolated. Prior to 1 April 2017, the heading "discrimination" covered all forms of discrimination (on the basis of race, sexual preferences, religion). In 2017, the Standing Committee P adopted a new computer data bank and a new nomenclature based on seven different criteria: race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin; disability; belief, religion; sexual orientation; gender; language or other (age, trade union and political beliefs, etc.). This "detrication" has been carried out since 1 April 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u31	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer, which I will analyse. But to the statement of all the principles of ethics, regulation and training existing within the police, as well as of the code of conduct of the officials, it seems clear to me, even if I am not in a position to judge, that the statements referred to and published in the press by this police inspector are quite reprehensible. It is inconceivable that no sanction will be applied. When I hear all the tags you've quoted and when I read what's been posted and the position taken by this policeman, it seems unthinkable that this behavior remains unanswered and unpunished. We'll see what the Chief of Staff's decision will be. But sincerely, depending on it, it will have to be discussed again in committee. It would be a very bad signal that would be sent to the population and the police force. I am sure that most police officers also do not support this type of statement and behaviour. It's very important. This is about the image of the police function in general. The press reported that the file had been filed without further action by the Public Prosecutor's Office. That remains a question for me. Some talk about an overcrowded parquet floor. That is no reason to close such a file. As soon as the investigation is closed, I'll come back to you. I do not know if there is a timing on this investigation in the Brussels-West area. This issue cannot remain unanswered and sanctions must be applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u32	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, you start well this year by answering the successive questions of three Members of Parliament, Ecolo! On 18 October and 22 November, I asked you in this same commission about the instructions given to local and federal police officers concerning migrants from Maximilian Park and in the vicinity of the North Railway Station. I asked you if there are any daily quotas for arrests. In October, you said quite vehemently: "We must dare to ask this question! Of course I have not imposed quotas on the number of people to be arrested. It's completely stupid to think the same way." In November, you said that "no minimum target of migrants being arrested in transit in Maximilian Park was imposed by anyone". On 21 December, the daily newspaper La Libre Belgique published the contents of the minutes of 4 September, which I had been asking you for weeks. This report takes up the decisions taken at a meeting to prepare for the arrests of migrants – which brought together, as you yourself had listed here in November, the various administrations involved in these raids. The title of the document is unambiguous, even a personal translation: Preparation meeting in relation to the actions imposed (opgelegd) by the authority at Maximilian Park. In the same document, there is a clear reference to arrest figures, in particular – I insist – for the "major action" originally planned for 21 September: "Estimating the number of persons arrested? 250 arrests." As is well known, this project has been ventilated and, because of the emotion generated by its publicity, the action has been cancelled. Where, Deputy Prime Minister, my questions. The title and content of this report totally contradict the answers you provided on 18 October and 22 November. Why did you lie to me? Do the methods of imposing pre-arrest figures as described in this report seem to you to be respectful of the law on the police function?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u33	Mr Hellings, you asked the same question on 18 October and 22 November. So I repeat my answer for the third and last time. No minimum target of migrants being arrested in transit in Maximilian Park has therefore been imposed by anyone. It was just the opposite. Maximum capacity may be deployed during any action, inter alia because of the administrative processing procedure which may prove to be relatively long, and which must be taken into account during operations, especially when such interventions must be maintained for an extended period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u34	Minister, thank you for your short answer. First of all, I shall reflect on the Minutes. I asked you, and you refused. Ecolo-Groen police advisers asked the same question to the Brussels-Ixelles police zone. Fortunately, there are whistleblowers in the police, allowing parliamentarians access to essential documents. Your answer is that there are no quotas, since there are no minimum number of arrests. This argument is valid in your explanation for the dozens of actions planned between November 6 and 15. For these, it was planned to arrest up to 20 to 30 people. I agree, but this argument is not valid if it is linked to the title of the document. I will read it to you in Dutch since it was in that language that it was quoted. "The preparatory meeting concerning the actions imposed by the The idea of the VP is therefore very clear. In the title, we speak of the actions imposed by the authority to arrest migrants.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u35	We're talking about shares and no quotas. I'm not a liar, Mr. Hellings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u36	J'en termine. Your argument is that there are no quotas because there are no minimum numbers. This applies to shares from December 6 to 15. On the other hand, for the great action of 21 September, your explanation no longer holds. Indeed, the goal was to reach 250 people. Moreover, it was so illegitimate to set the arrest of 250 people as an objective that, as soon as the action was unsettled, it was overturned. You can tell these truths the way you want it. For me, this is indeed a lie!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u37	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Delizée's 22831 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u38	Mr President, Minister, I will try to bring back a more serene climate than in the previous question. According to Médecins du Monde, an association which has been conducting medical, social and psychological consultations for migrants in transit in Brussels since last October, "the statements of the persons received indicate that police violence remains a problem". That sentence surprised me a little. According to their statistics, two thirds of the people interviewed in 746 consultations came from the Sudan and Eritrea. They followed migrants from Libya, Syria and Iraq, countries with high refugee status recognition rates. Migrants received mainly seek advice for respiratory tract infections (24%), open injuries, bruises and joint pain (17%), scabies (4%) or mental health disorders (4%). "These are the characteristic diagnoses of a life on the street in constant anxiety and poor hygiene conditions," according to Médecins du Monde. Mr Minister, I would like to see the real situation restored, not on the basis of hearsay. Are you aware of any complaints about possible police violence by migrants' associations or migrants themselves? If so, what measures have been applied to these officers? If not, do you think that these statements by Médecins du Monde are defamatory towards the police?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u39	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, with regard to your question on the number of complaints against police officers, I refer you to my intervention in committee of 20 December 2017 in response to question No 22717 put by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez. Since then, no complaints have been filed with the P Committee and the AIG. Out of courtesy, I'll give you the numbers. Committee P conducts a monitoring investigation into the control and detention of transmigrants by the police during large-scale administrative arrests. This investigation is under way. Committee P received two complaints on the issue of police intervention against transmigrants. These are not yet closed. The Prosecutor of the King of Brussels entrusted the investigation, in the context of a criminal case, to the Investigation Service P. Only the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels is entitled to provide explanations in this respect. To date, the AIG has not had to deal with police violence against migrants in the cases referred to. As far as your second question is concerned, this is a matter for the judicial and disciplinary authorities. If, in the context of an ongoing review investigation or complaint file, faults or malfunctions are found, proposals will be made to remedy them. My view is very clear: if there were to be actual police violence, they would be subject to investigation by the relevant department.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u40	Mr President, Minister, thank you. My question and your answer seem important to me because I want to reiterate strongly that if there is violence, a complaint must be lodged, but neither can I accept fantasies and that on the basis of reports... It's a shame because I love Doctors of the World, just like Doctors Without Borders. I am myself a member of Amnesty International. It seems to me that we must always rely on facts. And when there is one, it is necessary to encourage the filing of complaints without, on an a priori basis, being able to condemn without merit. That was the meaning of my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u41	Mr President, Minister, last November you announced your willingness to set up a railway police force that would only be active on trains, on docks and tracks, with the safety of stations to be ensured by local police. Since then, the press has reported that many police officers in the railway service have expressed concern about this. Some of them reportedly asked to be transferred. Some services are said to be "desert" to date. According to the press, a direct consequence would be that the fight against pickpockets can no longer take place. Minister, do you confirm these facts? If yes, do you have any specific figures for the mutations that have been made or requested? If so, what concrete problems are there on the ground and what solutions are planned to address them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u42	Mr Flahaux, first of all I would like to stress that the pickpockets phenomenon is and will remain a priority for the railway police. The field teams patrol the entire specialized field of action on a daily basis, namely, as you said, the Belgian railways, the Brussels metro networks and the Brussels railway stations. In other words, the whole network is monitored, the intensity of which may vary depending on the periods of the day and/or the interventions to be carried out. The purpose of the reorganization was specifically to use capacity more efficiently and flexibly in order to be able to carry out even more specific actions on trains, wharves and stations. The articles in the press concern the situation in Brussels, where there was a specific team that dealt only with pickpockets. The Brussels Railway Police is not part of the reorganization of the railway police which was announced at the end of last year. But, beyond that, internal changes have taken place in the Brussels services, including the fact that the pickpocket-specific team has been transformed into a team dedicated to phenomena, more flexible, which can be used for other phenomena going on the train than pickpockets, depending on the current situation. There are several deficits within the railway police, but we have been fully engaged since December in opening additional places for the mobility police. A total of 72 places were opened in the 2017/5 mobility cycle, 30 of which were for Brussels. It is still too early for an overall count of the "in" and "out" mobilitys of this mobility cycle. So I can't give you a final figure yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u43	Thank you, Minister. Your answer suits me perfectly at this stage. We'll have an opportunity in the coming months to see where we are. I'm sure that's one of your priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u44	Minister, on 22 December 2015, the nuclear cabinet decided on 20 measures for the police. They were included in the so-called Christmas agreement. One of these measures is the creation of a new Directorate of Surveillance and Protection, which also includes military personnel who want to move from Defence to that new service. The service would count 1 600 people, including 200 soldiers in the long term. A few weeks ago, that service also took action in Brussels. I have the following questions, Minister. Through the selection procedure prior to the training of police inspector, do you have an overview of the statistics of the number of military personnel that spontaneously switched from Defence to the police force each year, from 2010 to today? Should the military who want to move to the new Directorate of Surveillance and Protection in the future follow an additional training before they can make the transition? Have any concrete agreements been reached with the Defence Department on this matter? What is the concrete state of play with regard to the new Directorate for Surveillance and Protection? When will the Corps be able to start? Have there been spontaneous requests from military forces who want to switch to the new corps? When would you be able to clarify candidates' future prospects in the new force? I refer again to the action taken a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u45	What action did you mean a few weeks ago? That board is still being set up. How can action be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u46	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u47	You are talking about the Security Corps, which falls under Minister None, but that has nothing to do with this. Mr Yüksel, your first question concerns the numbers of soldiers who spontaneously switched from Defence to the police. In 2010 there was 1, in 2011 there were 73, in 2012 5, in 2013 2, in 2014 0, in 2015 1 and in 2016 and 2017 0. I would like to point out that it was then for the training of inspector. In the DAB's organizational chart, it's about security agents. That's lower threshold to flow in. As for your second question, the selected military personnel will have to follow the initial training security officer. That training lasts six months. Inspector's training shall last at least 12 months. There is therefore no separate training. The proposed regulations provide for the selection of the military to be exempted from the cognitive skill test. The military who have a certification physical evaluation fitness in the year preceding the submission of their candidacy for the DAB shall be exempted from the physical fitness test. If they do not have a licence, it is necessary to also succeed for the functional course. As far as your third question on training is concerned, it is foreseen that the selected military will be transferred to the federal police at the start of the basic training. They then belong respectively to the degree of prospective security agent or prospective security assistant and participate in the basic training. The military who succeed in basic training are appointed to the federal police in the degree of security officer or assistant. That has to do with their military degree. The military who started the training will be given the opportunity to return to Defense within 12 months of the date of transfer. This is done either on your own question or as a result of the failure to apply for training. The military can therefore change and when they fail to succeed or do not like it, they can return to Defense. External recruitment of non-military personnel started in October 2017. We currently have 2 240 French and 938 Dutch-speaking candidates. At the moment 31 French-speaking and 46 Dutch-speaking candidates have passed all selection tests. For the military, the nominations for Defence have been open since 22 December 2017. We do not yet know the figures for potential voluntary candidates. The training of the first agents, and there are a hundred of them, starts on 1 March for a stake on the site on 1 September, six months later. The first agents will be deployed on the nuclear sites of Doel and Tihange, where they will replace the military who are currently deployed there. A number of soldiers have spontaneously contacted the project manager of the federal police, but they did not meet the conditions, namely military with the degree of volunteer for police security officer and military with the degree of petty officer for police security assistant. After selection and recruitment, the selected military will start training for six months. That is foreseen for mid-2018. During training, security agents will be able to apply through mobility on the basis of available positions. These places will be divided into the districts according to the priorities and throughout the Belgian region. Vacant relations shall be given priority to the military with BDL, limited duration, durée limitée perhaps and in chronological order of the date of submission of their candidacy. Furthermore, the transfer of military personnel takes precedence over the other recruitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u48	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u49	Minister, the fight against online hate messages deserves our attention. The Internet Referral Unit of the federal police is focusing on this fight. I have the following questions for you, Minister. First of all, how many hate messages on the Internet have been removed so far by this federal police service? How many platforms did this happen? How many profiles are we talking about? Secondly, what is the state of play with regard to the crew of this service? You promised earlier to increase the number of employees to 32. Has that already happened? Thirdly, will new means and instruments be added in the fight against online hatred?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u50	Mr Yüksel, the Belgian Internet Referral Unit (IRU) has communicated profiles to the relevant operators since its creation. In 33 cases a report was drawn up and in 12 cases a report was drawn up in the context of 'threat to an attack'. Effective removal of hate messages and removal of profiles is the responsibility of the operators. Hate messages were detected on 16 different platforms. 1 128 profiles were effectively removed by the operators. IRU was assigned to the Central Directorate of DJSOC, which deals with serious and organized crime, in particular the Operations Directorate. There is a regular cell "Internet Tracking" as well as the IRU, which together have 32 employees. At present, this unit, of which the IRU is a member, has 23 staff and 2 CALog. Inspector's places are all filled out. The 9 other places were published, but no suitable candidates have yet been found. However, vacancies remain vacant and recruitment continues. We must, of course, find suitable candidates. As far as new resources and instruments are concerned, we are fully committed to OSINT. This is software that the judicial police, Defense and State Security have purchased to intelligently scan the Internet. The market survey is closed. The various offers are currently being examined. However, it is planned that this system will be put into operation during this year. There is also a collaboration with the academic world to implement technology developed there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for the information you have provided. As far as online hatred is concerned, we need to step up our efforts. Tracking it is one thing, its follow-up and removal are another matter. You have said that it is mainly a matter for the providers. I believe that final agreements should be reached, including at European level, with the big players, such as Youtube and Facebook. It is not easy to conclude agreements on this, but they have promised that they would remove matters within 24 hours. At a conference in Rome two months ago, I heard from the European Commissioner that they promised to remove matters within two hours. I am very curious whether they can do all that and whether they will keep their word.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u52	We have regular conferences with the major providers and the Ministers for the Interior at European level. The commitment of those providers goes pretty far. Just to give you an idea, Facebook has recruited 3 000 people worldwide specifically for this problem. So that's okay. For WhatsApp, for example, it's different. That's not a platform. The messages on it are not decryptable. That is a problem, but when it comes to publishing hate messages on Facebook and the like, we regularly sit around the table with them. But what is the problem, Mr Yüksel? There's been a shift from those things from the net to the dark side of the net. As one often sees, when dealing with crime somewhere, it moves elsewhere. It's always a game of forest ranger and poacher, I guess.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u53	Mr Minister, I would like to comment on the vacancies to extend the service to 32. I hope people manage to find additional people. These may be difficult profiles, but we have every interest in filling those vacancies in the short term, so that the service can be strengthened on the Internet patrolling.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u54	Minister, the Lierse football match against Beerschot-Wilrijk, last Saturday, 6 January, was a very important challenge for both Beerschot and Lierse in view of the second period championship in first class B. Prior to the competition, many Lierse supporters had moved to the stadium with burning pyrotechnic material. The supporters of Beerschot could not do that because there was a combi scheme. The game started with five minutes delay because fans of both clubs turned off fireworks, in the stadium, on the field, but also towards each other. On the footage you can see how one group fired at the other pyrotechnical material. At the second goal of Lierse there were more incidents, again firing fireworks in the direction of supporters of the other team. One person would have been taken to the hospital with burns. Others were taken care of on site. In response to the flares, battles also broke out behind the bleachers. Apparently the fans were supposed to fight each other, but fortunately the police intervened. Then there was a fight against the police, too. As a result, the game was interrupted for more than twenty minutes. Similar facts also occurred at the start of the season, on 13 August 2017, during the match between the same teams at the same stadium. KSK Lierse was then fined the Pro League as organizer. Apparently on January 6 there was no strict separation between the supporters of both clubs for this risky match. It made it easier for incidents to occur. In addition, there would have been soccer hooligans from the Netherlands present in the stadium. It is reported that hard core supporters would have previously exchanged photocopiers with the pyrotechnic material they would take to the competition. Can you tell me, Minister, what incidents have occurred at the stadium and who was involved in this? Secondly, this is one of the most serious incidents in first class B, and even in first class. It is also the second incident in as many matches between both clubs in the same stadium. Can you tell me what was going on with police, private security and stewards for this contest? Have all the security services done their job properly? Any mistakes made? Could this violence be avoided? Thirdly, were these incidents discussed with the Pro League? Will the Pro League claim a fine again? Do you expect any additional efforts from the football union or the Pro League? In what way could the clubs themselves contribute even more to the safety of their stadium? Finally, after a risk analysis, could the use of search dogs for pyrotechnic material, such as in the AA Gent-Valencia competition in November 2015, or the use of other technical aids in certain risk contests be part of the solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u55	Mr Vermeulen, I am leaving for a very long reading. As Minister for Security and Home Affairs, but above all as a football fan, I would like to strongly condemn last weekend's events. Once again, some so-called supporters have ruined things for everyone. Verbal and physical violence in and around the stadium is absolutely out of the question. The only correct approach is zero tolerance. When I took note of the facts, I asked the Football Cell to investigate the events, the perpetrators and the structural and temporary measures that were taken to prevent supporter behaviour from getting out of hand. The answer you will receive to your questions is the preliminary findings of that investigation. As for your first question, following this competition, two Football Cell inspectors were on the spot for an inspection. The story of the facts was based on information from the Lier police zone and the findings of the Football cell inspectors. The incidents occurred at the level of the supporter's separation in gallery 3. Supporters of both clubs went into provocation and bombarded each other with pyrotechnics and cups of booze. As a result, the game started with delay. Later the game had to be shut down by the referee. Immediately after the shutdown, Beerschot supporters went behind the visitors' tribune and tried to force a gate. It was an evacuation gate that also separates the two support groups at the same time. The supporters of Lierse also went to the rear. The use of force, including collective use of pepper spray, has allowed law enforcement services to avoid confrontation between hotheads from the two supporters' cores. When about twenty minutes later the game started again, the incidents also stopped behind the bleachers. After scoring the 2-0, the moods heat again. Some of Beerschot's supporters tried to enter the site by opening a security gate of the visitor compartment. This could be prevented by the civil police who were drafted on the playing field. A lot of evidence was gathered. There was a police photographer, there's stadium cameras, and there's a video of the evidence team. A thorough analysis of the evidence is currently being carried out. The supporters of Lierse also found some twenty Feyenoord supporters. They were identified by the police Lier. Whether they were involved in the riots and, where appropriate, their precise share, will also have to be reflected in the analysis. In the next few weeks, the Football Cell will receive minutes from the police zone Lier, the police zone Antwerp and possibly the federal police. It is in principle customary for the various police forces to work together to carry out the necessary identifications. The usual administrative procedure will then be followed by the Football Cell. As for your second question, it was a derby with a certain rivalry between the two supporters groups. On August 13, 2017, he played against each other again after a few years. There were incidents at the time, both before the start of the game in the vicinity of the stadium and during the game in the stadium. Also then, pyrotechnic materials were thrown at each other. From this football season the visitors zone was refurbished in the gallery 3, which means that both supporters groups are side by side. The separation with the Liersesupporters was made by means of a metal fence. Previously, visitors were in the fully separate gallery 4, behind the target, which was now broken down. Following the current match, appointments were made with the two clubs. It was planned that a peloton would be deployed both on the side of the visitors and on the side of Lierse. The traffic section was also present with 10 staff, with 4 staff from Mocy. In addition, there were 4 spotters among the visitors and 4 spotters on the side of Lierse, as well as 2 cicerone, 1 evidence team and 1 cell car. In view of the incidents, assistance was requested from the federal reserve, the alpha peloton and the spray truck and later an alpha peloton was also requested from the Antwerp police. 58 stewards were deployed, including 24 stewards by KFCO Beerschot-Wilrijk and 34 stewards by KSK Lierse as well as 68 students from the seventh year of Safety. A combination was imposed, among other things, and the counters were closed before the start of the competition. This is necessary for the effectiveness of the combi system. KSK Lierse also organised a registered ticket sale. This means that only a registered soccer supporter could buy up to four tickets prior to the 2017-2018 season, in order to prevent any mix of supporters. A maximum of 20 buses with visiting supporters were also allowed and a predetermined route for the buses was imposed. The buses were accompanied by police escorts both before and after the game. There were also preventive place bans imposed on Beerschot supporters with stadium bans, as well as on supporters who are subject to a judicial investigation following the confrontation that occurred outside the stadium in August 2017. As a result, supporters were not allowed to enter the territory of Lier from January 6, 2018 at 12:00 until January 7, 2018 at 07:00. The use of tipos was prohibited for both supporters' clubs in order to anticipate the possible use of pyrotechnics under banners. The supporters were searched by both police and stewards. Additional checks were carried out on the ground cover, in particular on the pebbles behind the gallery 3. On August 13, it turned out that in advance pyro was hidden under those pebbles to use them during the game. An additional neutral zone was created with a spanlint in order to create an additional physical distance near the partitions in the gallery. During the second half, however, the Beerschot supporters broke through that ribbon. The fences and the safety corridor didn't stop objects from being thrown over. This was also the case during the Lierse-Beerschot competition on 13 August. Following this experience, the local government agreed with the Lierse club that the club would hang a safety net in the safety passage, as well as an opaque curtain that could be developed, if necessary, in order to better protect the two support groups from each other. However, the works have not been completed so far. My services keep themselves at the disposal of the Lierse club and the local government to investigate whether other additional measures can be taken to prevent a confrontation between supporters groups in the future. In fact, the incidents behind the gallery were located at the evacuation gate in the separation between the two supporters' boxes, which makes any adjustments more complex. As for your third question, the Pro League states that it will apply its internal rules. Those internal regulations are independent of any disciplinary measures taken by the Football Association. The rules allow clubs from the Proximus League to be fined up to EUR 10 000 to compensate for a loss of the image of the competition in the event of incidents leading to a temporary closure of the competition. After all, the incidents that dissipate the competition have a negative impact on the image of professional football in the competition and that of both clubs. Independent of the application of the rules, the Pro League will bring both club directors around the table for a conciliation moment to defuse possible disputes and seek solutions. Fourthly, the deployment of police dogs was not assessed as an undivided success by the police forces involved. There is doubt as to the effectiveness and efficiency of the product against the introduction of pyrotechnics. It is the efforts of the clubs themselves, which are and will continue to be of prime importance, both in terms of the deployment of security personnel, stewards, police and adequate maintenance and equipment infrastructure and organisational measures for such competitions and in terms of prevention. A method already applied at the level of UEFA is sanctions imposed on European-playing clubs for its supporters' behaviour. The principle is to sanction the clubs in order to responsive them to the behavior of their supporters while spreading a message to the supporters, who see their beloved club punished for their inappropriate behavior. Those types of sanctions are of a different order of magnitude than the sanction imposed by the Belgian Football Association's Disputes Committee on the support personalities between Lierse and Beerschot on the second day of play in 1B. Lierse had to pay a fine of 500 euros, of which 250 euros were effective. Beerschot was punished by a fine of EUR 1 250, of which EUR 625 was postponed for one year. Given the social impact, it seems interesting to me as a minister that the Pro League and the Belgian Football Association are working on a system like UEFA. Safety is not a matter for one or two actors, but for all stakeholders. Only if everyone accepts their responsibilities can we turn football into a real party. I therefore hope that all those involved will evaluate where it has gone wrong that weekend and draw the necessary conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic795x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your very long and detailed explanation. I, of course, like you, regret that such incidents continue, so intensely even that it discourages football fans from going to a game. I recently heard a testimony from a female supporter of Club Brugge who, after getting two firefighters next to her, has sustained sustained hearing damage. She says it's enough for her. I am the author of a bill specifically designed to improve security in football matches. This will certainly not prevent all violence and incidents, but the framework must be updated and improved. However, I am impressed by a number of measures taken. When we had the home game against FC Antwerp in the 1B final last season with KSV Roeselare, we took a lot of measures. Many have also been taken here, including a ban on places for certain persons. Perhaps some things could be better; you mentioned them yourself. That spanlin is not the most efficient thing, for example. A safety net would have been, but there wasn't. I do hear from you a novelty, namely the response of the clubs to the behavior of their own supporters, which I myself always advocate at the clubs with which I come in contact. Not so long ago there was a rather serious incident just in front of KV Kortrijk's spy head during the match against Standard. At the end of the game a number of KVK supporters played very badly against a player who was kicked off the field. I was going to talk to the KBVB and the Pro League about this, see if they can adjust their own regulatory framework. That is not a legal framework, but everyone has to take responsibility and the KBVB and the Pro League obviously have it.
