ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the first committee meeting since the recess. The next item is the exchange of views as requested during the last plenary session. A special hearing was requested with the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration in response to questions about the expulsion of criminals who are illegally staying in the country and the relevant policies. This was discussed during a question to the Minister of Justice. Mrs De Coninck asked to be able to put the same question to the Secretary of State, together with the Minister of Justice. However, the Minister of Justice indicated that he had nothing to add to his reply. That is why only the Secretary of State is here today. Mrs De Coninck, you also asked for a brief comment on the order of business. This is not on our agenda, but since we are still a bit in vacation mode, I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u2	Mr President, thank you very much for giving me that opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you have all had a pleasant holiday and gained enough energy to get through the coming months. As a result of this committee meeting, I had asked to raise a few questions about the closed institution where two families are now staying. I asked because I think this is an urgent matter. This is an opportunity to play our role as a Member of Parliament and ask informative questions. I note that my question was refused, arguing that this committee was called together as a special committee on the Rustemi affair. I understand that, of course. However, the procedure is that a maximum of 14 days may be locked in closed centres, up to a maximum of 14 days. If my questions are moved to the next official committee meeting, they're figs after Easter. That's the regulatory explanation. I find this terribly annoying. Mr Secretary of State, I am addressing you directly. I want to do my job fairly and correctly. However, I note more and more that we can ask written and oral questions, but that they are always answered 'behind the hole', to put it to his West Flemish. I heard an interview this morning and I saw your twitter behavior. It is only the beginning of the year of operation, but I wonder what we are actually still doing here as Members of Parliament. Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I regret that. However, I am not going to play any more than I have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u3	Mrs De Coninck, I would like to respond to that first. You certainly did not ask me to add an item on the agenda to this sitting, as required by the Rules of Procedure. You will probably have addressed the committee secretariat. I was informed of this yesterday afternoon. What I certainly did not want to do is suddenly add an item on the agenda, which means that outside yourself, the other groups could not prepare for it. Everyone has their opinion here, but a good debate requires good preparation. A committee meeting with the Secretary of State will be held on 19 September 2018. The oral questions are on the agenda. As you know, in carrying out what has been discussed in the Working Party on Political Renewal, we will automatically and quickly proceed to topical debates if there are sufficient questions on the same subject. We shall see what is going to happen at that moment and whether we can link a topical debate to the questions. That depends on the members of the committee who will have put questions at that time. We shall do so as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u4	Mr President, I fully share the concern of my colleague Mrs De Coninck. I share it so much that my colleagues Mrs Grovonius and Mrs Ben Hamou and I were on Monday with one of the families currently in the centre. On this symbolic school day, we thought it was important not to forget that some children are not in school but behind fences. Having said that, I do not want to start the debate because I do not want to favour the procedure over the substance. The Socialist Group has tabled a bill to prohibit the confinement of children. Hearings are planned. A session is scheduled for 19 September and we must address this issue as soon as possible. However, we must not empty these hearings and the debate on the bill by starting the debate today. If a topical debate on the confinement of families is held during the sitting on 19th, I would like to move forward with the discussion on the Socialist bill and the hearings. As far as procedural matters are concerned, I would not like us to empty from its substance a real debate and a real exchange with the Secretary of State. Indeed, no one would have to gain from it, and especially not the families currently locked up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope you have had a good holiday. It was a holiday in which migration was again an important theme, inter alia through the imprisonment of families with children in a family facility in Steenokkerzeel and through the transit migration debate. These cases have received a lot of media attention. Today I want to talk about the Rustemi case and how we deal with people who are being released early. The current and future approach of these persons, if they do not have a right of residence in the context of repatriation policy, is also addressed. This has already been discussed. However, I do not know about any of these questions, so it is not true that I would have refused them. There's no talking about my tweets either, but I'm talking about my Twitter behavior, Mrs. De Coninck. That'll be on your own account. You know that I am present when Parliament calls for me, unlike many other colleagues. I'm always on time, as you know. If there are questions about these families or about the context, I have no problem answering questions. It is a topical debate. There is therefore no reserve from the Secretary of State and myself to answer questions. I am at Parliament's disposal regardless of the time. Mrs Fernandez, you must know that there is also a school in the centre. A lot of misinformation is circulating about this. So it is very important to talk. I am always prepared to answer questions or to participate in a topical debate. I have no problem with that. I am still here for Parliament and for you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u6	Mr President, first of all, I would like to know whether the debate is really taking place today. If so, I can explain to Mr Franken that a school does not have fences and is not limited to an educator who says: "Open your arms, close your arms and jump in the air!" Like we could see on Monday. A school – I left my son there two hours earlier – is not the family helper of the 127bis closed centre. I can guarantee you that! At 9 a.m., I was dropping my son off at school, at 10:30 a.m., I saw children locked up behind a fence; certainly with an educator, but this, Mr. Franken, is not a school. So, Mr. President, do we, yes or no, have the debate now? If so, I will take part, if not, I will follow the procedure that will be established. I would remind you that the Socialist Group has tabled a bill. I would not want pseudo mini-debates to empty the real debate of its substance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u7	We shall conclude this debate with this. Out of respect for the discussion of the PS Group's proposal on the detention of minors, we will conduct the debates as far as possible in that context so as not to cause fragmentation. Of course, the Rules of Procedure require that, if there are oral questions, they must also be answered. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the order of business. I shall first give the floor to the Secretary of State for his explanation and information. Mrs De Coninck will then be given the floor, since she has tabled an oral question on this subject, and then the other groups will have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a man like Rustemi should not walk freely. We all agree on this in this hemisphere. While the focus in media coverage and the opposition is on responsibilities and powers, I can say that the cooperation between the services of Minister Geens and my services is going very well. For example, in 2017, we repatriated a record number of people who pose a threat to public order and/or our national security. Those were both persons who had served their sentence in whole or in part as well as persons whose arrest mandate was lifted. I cannot give details of individual cases, but I can, on the other hand, clarify the standard procedure for persons without right of residence leaving prison. The practical arrangements for the removal of illegal detainees are governed by a ministerial circular. It is the normal procedure for the Foreign Office to be contacted at any release from prison of a person without a right of residence. It is then up to the Department of Foreign Affairs to apply the Foreign Affairs Act and decide. They shall take account of the elements available. The Foreign Affairs Office does indeed have access to Sidis Suite: the database of Justice which contains all possible data but limited to the data they need for the exercise of their competence. This has to do, among other things, with the state of residence of the persons concerned. I can confirm that the Foreign Office has access to the data on the lockup sheet. In very rare cases, the parquet itself contacts the Foreign Office. However, the 2010 circular of the College of Attorneys General regulates the exchange of information between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Office of Foreigners. In the circular letter of the College of Attorneys General of 2010, I quote: "The prosecutors and the labour auditorates themselves assess whether they are addressing the Foreign Affairs Office in order to inform them of the current state of residence of a foreigner. It is therefore left to the magistrate concerned to consult DVZ. In the case of adult foreigners, DVZ may be asked what their individual current residence status is. From the answer of DVZ it can be inferred that the removal is imminent. At that time, the Public Prosecutor may request DVZ to temporarily postpone or suspend the decision or service of the decision with regard to residence status. In that case, the magistrate shall make a reasoned request." That's what the letter says. If DVZ is not aware of the fact that the Justice Department absolutely wants to keep this person in the country, priority is being given to repatriation. Our policy is still that people who pose a threat to public order or our national security do not belong here. The general principle of the Aliens Act is that someone who is in an illegal stay must leave the country. In his decision to release under conditions, the court gave a guarantee. However, it does not give the person concerned the right to reside. Mrs De Coninck asked whether the defendants could also be removed if they had not yet reached the sentence at the time of appeal. If a person in illegal residence is allowed to leave prison because of an opposition or appeal that has been declared admissible, he may be prevented by the Foreign Office and transferred to a centre for illegal immigrants the same day. It is therefore possible that the person concerned has already been removed at the time of the substantive examination of the appeal or appeal. Here too, contact and exchange of information between the Justice Department and the Foreign Affairs Office are always crucial. For the sake of clarity, of the 1 622 ex-cons who were removed in 2017, 182 were exempted under arrest mandate. Similar situations have therefore occurred. Some are asking to use the closed centers as an alternative to prison. Closed centres should not be used as an alternative to prison, as the Return Directive and the Aliens Act do not allow this. If they're serious criminals who need follow-up, they belong in prison, not in a closed center for illegals. That is where people are held administratively for their repatriation. If the possibility of repatriation goes away, I can't hold those people any longer. There is a great deal of justice about this. So it is quite clear that closed centres are not an alternative to prison. That's not how it works. If a repatriation is no longer possible due to circumstances, then I must also release the people. It's that simple and that's how it's always been. There's nothing new about that. It's up to the judge to decide whether serious criminals belong in prison. That doesn't belong to me or the Foreign Office. With regard to the court decision to remove a convicted person from prison while under arrest warrant, please contact the Minister of Justice. The Rustemi case was indeed the subject of consultations between the services of the Minister of Justice and my services. I've had extensive consultations with Minister Geens this morning. Mr Delmulle and people from the Genes cabinet and my cabinet were present. We are in full consultation. You should know that there is also a COTER working group (Coordination Return Working Party) with a sub-group on Justice, where there is also ongoing consultation. We would not achieve such good results if we did not discuss them. The circular letter from the College of Attorneys General I have just mentioned will be updated and brought to the attention of the prosecutors. It has also been agreed that the Foreign Affairs Office will provide explanations to the College of Attorneys General and will in the meantime proactively contact you when necessary. Reference magistrates will be identified. In similar situations, we will always contact the public prosecutor's office on a case-by-file basis to see what we will do with it. If, for example, a deposit was made that was paid, or if it is said that there should be no removal, that the person concerned should remain at the disposal of the Justice Department for the investigation, then we will always contact the court on a case-by-case basis to see what we will do about it, whether we can repatriate or not. There will be even better and more consistent consultation and contact in this area, so that we are on the same lines. I would like to repeat that this phenomenon is not new. There has always been a contradiction between residence legislation and the judicial story when it comes to criminals. That was the case under Mrs De Block, under Mr Wathelet and before. Only 3 to 600 criminals were deported every year. Now there is much more and, or seems to be, more often an inconsistency between, on the one hand, residence legislation, which says that someone who is illegal and who is exempted by a judge, remains illegal and does not even get the right to stay and therefore needs to be repatriated and, on the other hand, justice who says that that person should remain available for the investigation. That contradicts each other. In this sense, we will consult even better and, together with the public prosecutor's file, discuss what we will do with it. I'm committed to that. We will also update that circular and cooperate even better with and explain to the College of Attorneys General what exactly is the work of the Department of Foreign Affairs, what exactly we do or do not do. There is also a ruling by the RvV on one case, which we must take into account. With the RvV it is not the large chamber that decides but is only about one ruling from one judge. However, we want to try to work together as best we can to avoid such matters. In the meantime, the Foreign Affairs Office received a letter from the public prosecutor in connection with a number of files. It rarely happens that we get a letter from the public prosecutor saying that we should not send someone back, although we know that this person is illegal, because he must remain at his disposal. As I said, this is mentioned in the 2010 circular. However, we hardly received any letters at the time. Now we get letters from the courthouse, this becomes a media file and wakes everyone up. We will certainly contact each individual case via the reference magistrates and make better arrangements. As already mentioned, there is good cooperation with Minister Geens and his services. Our cabinets have regular consultations with the competent departments, work very constructively together and have very good results. In response to the question as to how many months have actually been spent, I refer you to the Minister responsible for Justice. Of course, we do not know to what extent the sentence was effectively implemented. The execution of a punishment is something other than what a judge imposes on punishment. That will certainly be less, but the effective number you will have to ask the Minister of Justice. As far as your questions on the extradition of Rustemi are concerned, I must also refer you to the Minister of Justice. I can only confirm that there is good and constructive cooperation with the Albanian authorities. For your questions about smugglers of human beings, too, I would refer you to the Minister responsible for justice. So you have asked a number of questions for which I am not competent. It is difficult for me to answer that. In any case, there is good cooperation with the Albanian authorities. We are, as always, particularly motivated in such dossiers. We shall therefore see how this story ends. I understand that the man has been given a very severe prison sentence and that, of course, it is intended that he should also serve it effectively, here or in Albania. However, the latter is a matter for the Justice Department on which I do not wish to comment. You're gonna have to ask the Minister of Justice. I understand that the government is motivated to get this story through, even if it didn't work out the way it should.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u9	Mr President, I had asked a lot of questions. To my partial satisfaction I note that the Secretary of State used these questions to make his speech today. Excuse me, but I will also submit those questions in writing. After all, it has happened very quickly and fairly legally. I will not read them again, it is not useful and it is time-consuming. However, I have a number of comments to make on what the Secretary of State has said. I do not know to what extent the rules of procedure are now being dealt with. Can I say something about that now?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u10	We have just discussed the arrangements for the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u11	The Secretary of State has just given an answer to the question that I should now be asking, to be brief. I would now like to respond to his answers. Is that okay? [[Assent]] Mr Secretary of State, if I understand correctly, you say that the Rustemi file did not go well. If that's the conclusion, I can understand that. I would also have liked the Minister of Justice to be here, as I requested. After all, in a number of questions, I notice that you are referring to justice, since it is not your competence. I know from experience that the most difficult problems can be solved when people from different groups, with different views and with different powers sit together and seek a solution. The most difficult problems are those which fall between two seats, or which have to be dealt with at the same time on many seats. Something went wrong in this file. The police write about Rustemi that he was sentenced by the court of appeal of Brussels to a prison sentence of nine years as a leader of a criminal organisation. He was part of the Brussels prostitution and drug environment. The police are talking, among other things, about the destruction of property, the use of firearms, attempted murder, extortion, trafficking in human beings of young women forced into prostitution... Rustemi and his associates were usually very violent. The conviction took place on 25 January 2017. Just so we're clear, I'm not making this up. I'm reading from the police report. There is, however, something not clear to me. I thought heavy convicts were always deported to their homeland after serving their time in prison. To what extent are serious convicts who are in prison and still being deported, imprisoned or watched in their home country? If we do not do that, we are actually giving a gift: one is condemned and then expelled to his homeland, where the punishment disappears. Are there any final procedures for that? The Rustemi case is a special case. After all, he was convicted, but the sentence has not yet been carried out. In the meantime, he was the subject of a second trial and in the context of which he is released on bail, on which one decides to designate him. That expulsion was actually a gift for Rustemi. Just so we're clear, it's normal for a mistake to happen now and then. There are mistakes in all procedures. It is not clear to me, however, that in this case, it stands out because Rustemi is one of the greatest criminals to what extent that still exists. Were the procedures adapted in the meantime? Are there any agreements between the Justice Department and the Foreign Office and to what extent are they controlled? To what extent will the committee responsible for monitoring the expulsions be involved in the evaluation of such dossiers? We must close the gaps in the network, in a decent way and with respect for international rules. To what extent can the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, I think it will have a great deal of work to do in the coming months, and to what extent can justice play a proactive role in this? The essence for me is to ensure that it does not happen again that someone can use the fact that he is staying here illegally to avoid his punishment, because in that case expulsion is actually a gift. I'm very concerned about that. I would like you to go into that in more detail. Was it a one-time mistake or is there an error in the system? Then how can we close that hole in the system?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, it is a little strange that we are meeting now, two months after the polemic on the Rustemi case. I therefore understand Mrs De Coninck's question. At least you're not responsible for that. You have come when Parliament has called you. You have also responded well at the moment. It is true that Rustemi was deported last year by order of the Foreign Office. He did have something on his mind. Mrs. De Coninck framed it. In total, he's serving a 22-year prison sentence. However, it is still a trade-off. You said at the beginning of the legislature, and this is also what the government agreement says, together with the majority parties, that you are a priority for the detection of criminal illegals. This is an excellent example of implementing that policy. It is often forgotten that illegality is also a crime. If a court decides to release someone on parole, knowing well that this man is here illegally, the foreign law will enter into force. The Secretary of State explained that. Mrs De Coninck rightly says that it is always a weight of interests. There are two departments competent. Then it does seem to me to be weighing up those interests. You said there was a proper consultation with the Justice Department. I don't think this is more than usual. Perhaps that still needs to be formalized, but you said that this is happening. I think that we can only judge this case on a case-by-case basis, a case-by-case basis, a criminal by criminal, as you yourself say. Your services and the Foreign Affairs Department must do so. On the one hand, there is your interest in combating illegality, which in itself is a crime leading to an order to leave the territory, obviously from a sound asylum and migration policy. On the other hand, there is the balancing of justice, which has the task of punishing crime. We need to see how we can safeguard public order and national security there. You yourself admit that the Rustemi case was not a model. These conflicting interests play a par excellence here. I think you can also see the need for a directive, for a case-by-case balance of interests to be made on a case-by-case basis, and that there is no alternative but to resolve it in this way. You are right to say that a return center is not a prison. I think the Minister of Justice will say from his authority that a prison is not a return centre. There will be no choice but to look at the nature of the criminal offences, to see whether we have an interest in keeping a person in prison in function of public order and national security in order to serve his sentence, or whether we have an interest in removing and repatriating that person from our territory in the fight against illegality, which is very often the case. I think that you are making the right assessment and that, in this particular case, you are right to sit around the table and sit down with the Justice Department in order to ensure that this will be dealt with more appropriately in the future. You yourself say that there is an exchange of information and that we have an insight into these databases. That's exactly what I was gonna ask, so that's okay. Only on a case-by-case basis will it be necessary to discuss what you have said you will do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u13	Mr. Franken, I listened to you. Contrary to what you're saying, your Justice colleague clearly explained that the information about Mr. Rustemi followed when that person was transferred to the closed centre in Bruges. It was very clear that Justice wanted to be present at the various stages of criminal proceedings. Therefore, the issue today, for myself and for my group, is where this information has been lost. We know that we are not talking about a choir child but about a person who is considered to be most wanted and who has been closely followed by the police. If I understand what you're saying, we're rethinking and reviewing the circulars. Well, that's admitting that there was a problem. It's the recognition of a flaw in the system. I would like to know what you are doing today in practice so that it does not happen again? What steps are being taken internally to identify responsibilities? What is being done today to recover this person who, unlike others, as previously mentioned, is totally free to circulate in Albania and, more importantly, is perhaps busy pursuing his illegal activities and practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u14	Mr President, I believe that the main questions have been asked. I also believe that the Secretary of State has set the limits of the framework, within which he considered it possible to respond. His answers must be able to be appreciated in the light of what the Minister of Justice can add. It is not easy to have criminal and administrative law coexisted. We can see that. I do not know the concrete facts that have led to the current findings. Have you checked whether this has already happened before or whether it is a unique case in history, in the mechanics of expulsion from a conviction? Indeed, it would interest me to know whether it is something that has already happened often, rarely or never.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u15	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I think you have given clear answers. The Rustemi case was not a single case, but it has become more extensive in the media. You support the lack of communication between public services. This seems to be a reciprocal problem. In this case, perhaps there is no communication or even unwillingness to communicate. I'll come back to this later. In my view, this is a problem that needs to be addressed here. We need to find solutions to this. You are already taking the first steps. The coalition agreement included the possibility of finally granting DVZ access to the ANG and the criminal record. This old requirement of DVZ has meanwhile been realized. This access also brings with it a certain responsibility. These are the words of Mr Roosemont during the interview in this matter. We found his statements somewhat misplaced. The expulsion of persons such as Rustemi is not merely an administrative act. I therefore found that statement to be an expression of the thinking of certain public services. I believe that the fight against illegal residence and respect for the rule of law, where sentences are imposed and enforced, can be justified. We must always rely on the protection of our society from possible crimes. For this reason, I believe that closer cooperation and consultation between public administrations is needed, and that a certain 'cooling' is needed. We need to look at cases on a case-by-case basis, in the interests of our society. I am glad that you and Minister Geens would like to look at the circular on this subject. I believe that this should be followed closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u16	Indeed, we had this debate in July. What is difficult for us is that in July only Minister None was present in the plenary session and now we are alone with the Secretary of State. I understand from the President that Minister Nothing had anything to add to the story, although we felt that in July there were no answers to a number of specific questions about the legal factuality of the case. Having said that, you have begun to say that Rustemi should never have walked freely. I believe that this is indeed a valid starting point and that everyone agrees on this. Your second statement was that the cooperation between Justice and DVZ is going well. I therefore assume that the Rustemi case was an exceptional case. For us as Open Vld, I would like to stress that the fact that this man is at large is a curse against the rule of law, both here and in Albania. According to us, here or in Albania, he had to be in prison for a nine-year sentence of effective imprisonment. There was indeed a cassation appeal pending, Minister Geens did not go into this further in July, and there were, however, two criminal cases still pending for which he was later sentenced to five and eight years' imprisonment. Despite the separation of powers, I believe that we can ask the question again, and we did so in July, that the debate on provisional detention is being held. Nevertheless, we do not want to place this case in the hands of one or the other. It is a joint mission of both the Department of Foreign Affairs and Justice. If criminals are deported, we are in favour of them serving their sentence in their home country, not walking around at large. We therefore believe that further consultation and dialogue would be appropriate. You say that information is being exchanged and that there are clear guidelines between the parish and DVZ. You also say that on the occasion of this case everyone has been woken up because you are now receiving letters from the public prosecutor's office. We wonder what these guidelines are? When can illegal criminals stay in their country for their trial? Which one do we point out and which one do we keep waiting for their conviction? This is not clear to us. Do you think that there is a need for changes to the legislation? Can we say, briefly, that you will probably not agree to this if these criminals are released and not put in remand, the Foreign Office always sends them back? Or is it only if the parole board sends a letter to keep them here? What are the criteria on which the parquet is based to decide that they should stay in the country? For us, the closed center is not an alternative to a prison either. In addition to the question about the directives to keep someone here in the context of a procedure, I would also like to ask whether we have a view on who we are sending back. You may not be able to answer that today, but you announced that there would be an investigation in progress. Do you have a view of where Rustemi is at the moment? Does Albania cooperate in his search? Are there any agreements as to where he will end up serving his sentence, here or in Albania? Can you elaborate on this specific case?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u17	Safet Rustemi is well known in the northern part of Brussels, especially the Alhambra district, which I myself know very well since I live there 800 metres away. The problems in this area are known, in particular street prostitution and drug trafficking, of which Mr. Rustemi is a specialist. Mr Rustemi is well known and terrorizes this neighbourhood of Brussels, which is in danger because of the criminal activities of this gentleman. Mr. Secretary of State, you say that you want to expel anyone who is staying illegally. You just said, "Every person in illegal residence must leave the country, even the dangerous criminals several times condemned by the courts." In your opinion, these people must be displaced while they represent a danger. Is evicting a convicted criminal, at the time of WhatsApp, Facebook and Instagram applications, a responsible act? No! Is this effective in terms of security, national security in general and local security in this particular case? No! Are the citizens of the North Quarter or Alhambra District reassured because Mr Rustemi lives free in Albania? No! Can Mr Rustemi of Albania continue to maintain his network of drug traffickers and human beings, especially women in fragile situations? No! You allow him to maintain his networks remotely! These evictions may make you happy, but they inflate criminal statistics with regard to the justice system and the Brussels police. I listened very carefully to Mrs Smeyers. The arguments it has just put forward on behalf of the N-VA Group remind me of a discussion we had on 15 July 2015, in plenary session, on a proposal for a law by the Ministers of Justice and the Interior and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration on the deprivation of nationality for persons convicted of terrorist offences. Of course, these are separate criminal acts. However, it is still the same obsession with expulsion for expulsion that lies at the heart not only of the nationalist doctrine of the N-VA, but also of concrete measures that are taken and which make a criminal free in Albania. Let me quote a few illuminating words. Mrs Smeyers, you said: "A person who commits a terrorist act must not be part of our society". You also said – like Mr Franken – that someone who is in an illegal stay must leave the country. I draw your attention to the following fact. Mr Franken will recall that we have discussed the issue of Dison's imam a lot. The situation is comparable. Three years ago, Mr. Franken, you thought that expelling this imam that was rotting young people's minds would make him harmless. Similarly, today you think that expelling Safet Rustemi to Albania would alleviate his danger. The problem is the same. That's why I'm challenging your point of view. Mrs Smeyers, I told you that banishing someone – whether it is a radicalized imam, someone who indoctrinates young people or someone who has radicalised over the Internet – will not bring the effective solution that our fellow citizens are entitled to expect from the Belgian state. It is through follow-up by the State Security, the intelligence services and the police that we can effectively arrest these people. Perhaps this will give you a good conscience in that, as a result, these jihadists will no longer be part of the national community, to paraphrase your remarks. However, if the radical imam proves to be dangerous for the Belgians – which in your view justifies its distance – it is also dangerous for the Dutch. I would remind you that, precisely, he is Dutch. We live in the days of Twitter, when you take a bus like you buy a gum at the supermarket. Smeyers replied: "We are responsible for our nationality laws. The other countries are one of their own. If each State assumed its responsibilities, it would already be a huge step forward." The fact is that at present, in terms of efficiency, either Mr Rustemi should be imprisoned in Belgium or he should be imprisoned in Albania. We agree. And today, because of the obsession of expulsion of the N-VA (of its group and its Secretary of State) a dangerous person finds himself in Albania, free! How can we explain this incredible fact? It's this obsession with expulsion. And, de facto, today: yes, the Secretary of State, by this obsession, released a serious criminal and condemned without having checked whether he, once returned to the country, would indeed be imprisoned - which is necessary for the security of Albanians and also, at the time of the new technologies, to the security of Belgians, of Brussels in particular. And that, Mr. Franken, is your responsibility!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u18	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, if I take up what you wanted to convey as a message today, you recall the general procedure, say that the cooperation of the Justice and the Office of Foreigners is working perfectly and again take advantage of the opportunity to tack the prosecutor who, you say, woke up on the file because it was a media case. It must be noted, first of all, that you are not consistent with the words of the Minister of Justice, who spoke last July, saying clearly that the prosecutor's office had done its job and also the prisons. You did not want much, if not at all, to express yourself today on the individual case. This was not the case in July, since you were not embarrassed to say that neither the police nor the judiciary had transmitted to your administration the information that would have prevented the expulsion of the criminal, now at liberty in Albania, when he had already been sentenced to 9 years in prison in Belgium. It must be noted today that you are less talkative about the subject. But what we are talking about today, pretending that everything is well, is completely politically irresponsible! Serious mistakes have been committed, since the consequences of decisions and/or the absence of decisions are serious, having an impact on both security in Albania – it is still referred to as one of the most wanted criminals, who was considered the most wanted in Belgium and sentenced to a total of 22 years in prison. But there is also an impact on security in Belgium, as this type of crime knows no borders and can be carried out remotely. The Foreign Office was well aware that Rustemi had been convicted for such serious acts. How can we explain the Office's so light decision to expel and, in this way, to allow this great criminal to live in freedom in Albania? That's the real question. And you don't answer that. Your remarks are of incredible lightness given the seriousness of the facts. Your speech is inaudible. This expulsion has, in the end, offered impunity and freedom to this criminal. It is all the more incomprehensible that the government had the levers to manage this situation differently. First, of course, the Agency should not have said that it was aware of both the convictions and the prison data. You introduce yourself by constantly pretexting the problem of overload at the prison level. And now I'm even more surprised to hear you. What are the levers available to the government as a whole? The Act of 23 May 1990 is very clear in this respect. It allows it to grant the transfer of any person convicted and detained in Belgium to prisons in third countries. This convict, this prisoner, could have clearly, not been removed and expelled for having access to liberty, but be transferred and served his sentence in Albania. The Law on the Enforcement of Sentences Abroad also allows, in another article, to request a foreign State to carry out a penalty or deprivation of liberty imposed in Belgium. A third lever exists. And on this issue, I would like clear answers from the government. Indeed, you also mentioned the fact that you could move towards an agreement with Albania. However, Belgium has signed an agreement with Albania. The Act, which entered into force on 1 December 2013, applies to the execution of sentences handed down both before and after, which is not of interest to us in this case. We are, of course, fully in this context. Why, therefore, in the context of a serious criminal case, has the government not resorted to the various levers at its disposal? I recalled the legal provisions and this agreement with Albania, which entered into force in December 2013. If the members of the government had activated the levers at their disposal, we would not be there today! The fundamental question that arises about this criminal at large, beyond the faults committed, is what you are going to decide in relation to him. The logic is that we absolutely do not accept the fact that he is now at liberty. Yes or no, will you use the levers that you have to deny impunity to this criminal and thus avoid tomorrow possible offences and recidivisms of offences due to your mismanagement of this case and the release of this detainee because of the misconduct committed by the Office of Foreigners.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u19	Mr President, I have listened carefully, especially to the last speeches made by Mrs Fonck and Mr Hellings. I have the impression that the speakers are skipping a step. We all agree that the person concerned should not be free. Everyone agrees on that. However, the step that has been missed is that the question of how that person could have been released is not being asked here. There are two reasons for this. Firstly, there is the decision to release him on bail of no less than EUR 25 000, which is an amount that an ordinary criminal cannot pay and which is therefore special, but he is released in that way. Secondly, even if he has such a long prison sentence open, there is the decision not to execute the sentence. These are the reasons why Mr Rustemi is free today. DVZ and the services of the Secretary of State are only placed in second order. Their decisions are only conclusions from the first step in the decision to release or non-execution. That's not going to be discussed here. I can understand it somewhat, because it is more of a matter of justice. It is up to the Justice Department, if it has not already done so, to signal the person concerned internationally. I hope that has already happened. However, playing politics here and shifting responsibility for the situation on the back of the Secretary of State and his services is a step too far.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u20	I'll do it again. I feel that the debate is suddenly starting to get animated.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u21	Mr President, Mr Degroote's explanatory statement has aroused me somewhat. People don't have much to say about a ping-pong game. There's a court order from the Chamber of Indict. One can be happy with that decision or not. You will never hear from me what I think of a court ruling. After all, I belong to that class of politicians who keep such thoughts to themselves. One can be happy with the verdict or not. It is there, however, and so it is up to us to act on that decision. I agree with what the Secretary of State has said. He did not play a ping-pong today and pointed out the good cooperation in certain cases between Justice and DVZ. I also agree with him that the Rustemi file is not a good example. So the question is, above all, what we will do about the situation, rather than thinking about who can be played and about what comes first or second. The end result is that Mr Rustemi, whether or not in Albania, is at large and that no one is happy about this situation, not the majority and not the opposition. I therefore agree with the Secretary of State to amend the circular. I also agree with him when he suggests, apparently in consultation with the Minister of Justice and with the prosecutors, that he should work with reference magistrates. It really doesn't matter who needs to contact who first. Whether DVZ first contacts Justice, the parquet, or the parquet with DVZ, the essence of the story is that it happens. I assume, and I have also interpreted your answer, Mr Secretary of State, that it will also be effective now, peu imports who is in contact with whom. The most important thing is that it happens, with transparency of things. It is important that objective criteria are included in the circular as a guide to all those involved in administrative decisions. With legal certainty. I do have one more specific question, Mr Secretary of State. You referred in your reply to a judgment of the Council of Foreign Ministers on this matter. I thought that was relevant. If I have listened carefully to your answer, that decision fits in with the agreements you have now made with the Justice Department and with the Public Prosecutor, in particular that there is compulsory contact and that there are objective criteria. You spoke of one judgment, but one judgment may be a judgment in principle. I do not need to know any specific facts about the file. That's not right. But can you explain to us the principles of the decision-making part of the judgment in this matter? When's that arrest date?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u22	I have a very small question, Mr Secretary of State. One of your thoughts in this discussion was that there are similar cases. Could you give us a little more explanation? How much? How heavy are those cases? And so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your input. I can repeat what I have already said. We have consulted Mr Geens and the Attorney General, and we will inform each other even better in such cases, and together we will decide what to do with them. That could be a repatriation or not. What we do with it will depend on case to case. There are, of course, very heavy cases, like Rustemi. It is now said that Rustemi was so severely convicted and was still sent back, but of course he was not so severely convicted at the time. That was the problem. The verdict wasn't final. He had indeed been sentenced a few years earlier, but at the time of the expulsion he was of course not sentenced to 21 years in prison. The sum was not definitive at the time. He had already been sentenced before, but that was not the accumulation of the various convictions. It wasn't until later. Many questions have been asked about Albania, but I cannot give much explanation. That's not my jurisdiction either. You'll have to ask the Minister of Justice. It is true, however, that we have a cooperation agreement with Albania on the extradition of prisoners. This cooperation is relatively good. I cannot imagine anyone being put on the must-wanted list and not doing everything we can to get that person into prison as soon as possible. I cannot imagine that in a country like ours, but otherwise I will not explain it. You'll have to ask the Minister responsible. I repeat that I am sure that there is sufficient motivation to allow this serious criminal to serve his sentence, wherever that may be, in Belgium or Albania. Are there similar cases? Mr Pivin and Mrs De Coninck asked. 182 of the 1 622 ex-cons who were deported in 2017, were exempted under arrest mandate. That's about 10 percent. So similar situations can occur, but of course not everyone has had such a heavy course as Rustemi. It's often about much less heavy cases. So I do not know whether there have been such cases, but there have certainly been cases where there has been no final conviction. After all, the foreign law is very clear: a person who is illegally resident on the territory must return. Justice can sometimes make a statement that seems to contradict it. The question I ask myself is the following. Suppose someone was released, who has not yet been definitively convicted, and that person is illegally on the territory. That person can wait months or even years for his conviction. However, if that person is illegal on the territory, he will have to work in black to get bread on the shelf. In itself, this is also a criminal offence. In fact, I believe that this government has even increased those penalties. What's a person like that supposed to live on? I will not fill this out for the rest, but practice has shown that the recovery of criminal activities is, or may be, an option. I'll put it this way. That is the problem, of course, but, as Mr Verherstraeten says, it is not up to me to judge whether or not to release on parole. This is a task of the Justice Department. Independent judges must decide on this. However, the legislator considered that the logic of the Aliens Act is that a person who is illegally on the territory is not legally able to provide for his or her livelihood either. This means that such a person will have to resort to means that are not permitted by Belgian law. These are the laws you make here in this Parliament. It is therefore the logic itself that in such a case a departure is imminently voluntary or forced. In this respect, there is a very strong ratio and logic in the foreign law which was already adopted in 1980 by a large majority in this House. It's a hard-ass logic that doesn't really have much to do with it. I understand that in some situations this may lead to a certain contradiction because, on the one hand, the public prosecutor believes that the person should remain at the disposal of the investigation and, on the other hand, that person is staying illegally on the territory. We're gonna talk better. We're gonna change that letter. We are going to ensure that such matters do not happen anymore or almost no longer. One can never rule out mistakes, especially because this is done by people. However, we are going to ensure that this is done in a good way in the future. I can only repeat that what I say and do now is not new. There is no new practice. There is no question of a new circular. The current circular dates from 2010. Things were clearly put on paper. There's nothing new! My policy in this area has not changed. It only happens much more often that criminals are returned to their country of origin. The result is that it was more often about non-finally convicted criminals. However, we will do so even better in the future. The RV judgment stated that I had to release the person concerned and suspend the detention decision in a closed centre, just because there is no final conviction yet. That's what the judgment comes down to. As you and I noted, that judgment is one case. I notice that there is also another case law at the RV. As you know, there are several judges at the RV. Sometimes a large room sits together to make one clear decision that is valid for everyone. That hasn't happened so far. I don't know if that's the RV's senses. We have to wait and see. However, we will, of course, ensure that the problem no longer occurs and that such a case is no longer advocated, which means that there is no longer a problem. It could be. Things like the Rustemi case are, of course, painful. After all, on the one hand, he ends up on the must-wanted list, after which, on the other hand, it turns out that he has just been deported, which is at least peculiar. That's obvious. Lists of must-wanted criminals are a very good initiative of the government, which I support 100%. However, before we put people on such a list, we must also take a close look at the history of the dossier. That could avoid a lot of commotion in the media and in Parliament. That seems logical to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u24	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u25	Mr President, that may be a fair question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u26	Mr Secretary of State, you are probably speaking now in your capacity as a member of the government and not, as in the past, in your capacity as a Member of Parliament. Who else wants to have the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u27	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, your last remark is shocking. It's a convicted, dangerous felon. However, you say that the government will give some thought to whether, when the police make a must-wanted list, it will put the person concerned on that list. Forgive me, but if the fact that a convicted criminal is out there must depend on the scale of the commotion that this situation causes in Parliament, then I am holding my heart. I am still hungry for the cooperation agreement with Albania and probably with other countries, which you claim to have. The agreement concerns the extradition and expulsion of criminals and convicted persons. To what extent is the cooperation agreement implemented and applied? To what extent is the agreement also intended that people convicted in Belgium should serve their sentence in their country of origin? In the end, that's finality for me. I have another consideration. You terminated the agreement with the Tilburg prison. You were very proud of that. You said that we no longer need so many prisons because we have returned so many criminals, or people who have served their sentence, to their homeland. But at the same time, one of your arguments was to release Rustemi on parole that the prisons are too full. You will have to express a clear position within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u28	Mr Secretary of State, it seems to me that your remarks tend to trivialize what has happened. In the area of security, the exchange of information is crucial but, in this case, it was not that which was lacking. The information was known to the Foreign Office. The levers are already available today. The Office of Foreigners applies the Aliens Act but, like everyone in Belgium, it is not supposed to ignore other laws. In this case, the Foreigners' Office knew that he was a criminal. It is supposed to know that there is every possibility of organizing transfers and removals from prison to prison and not, as you have done, from prison to freedom. In my view, that is what is central. You and the Minister of Justice both certified that this exchange of information had taken place – which is the case – and, in this case, the Minister of Justice made it clear that the Agency had all the relevant information. The removal of a criminal must be accompanied by deprivation of liberty in the country to which he is expelled. With regard to this issue, I fear that an improvement in the circular will not be sufficient. You fall behind the fact that the Agency complies with the Aliens Act. Luckily! But it does not release him – and neither you – to examine the files with all the known information and to make decisions that ensure security. For a criminal who is one of the most wanted, what happened here is incredible lightness. Serious misconduct has been committed. Finally, I also find it extremely light that, on behalf of the government, you do not make it clear that the levers are being used so that this convicted person does not remain at large in Albania. It's your responsibility. Moreover, the case is not very recent, since Parliament has been bothering with it since July. However, the government is silent about the actions taken – or rather about their absence – to ensure that the convicted person does not remain at liberty, as the expulsion decision allowed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u29	Mrs Fonck, as I did not say in French, I will repeat myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u30	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u31	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I did not say that there was silence in this case. I only said that, not being the Minister of Justice, I was not competent. It is up to him to answer you as to the fate of Mr Rustemi and to clarify how to catch him. That's all I said. In short, I do not claim that the government is doing nothing, but that it is not my responsibility to answer the questions asked in this matter. So, please show some intellectual honesty. A little intellectual honesty is okay. You may also listen when I answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, I think I have been perfectly intellectually honest. You speak here as Secretary of State and you are part of a government. I hope that since last July you have had an opportunity to discuss this matter with the Minister of Justice. Moreover, the chairman of this commission, who is a member of your party and a majority member, should also be well informed. You explained at the beginning of the session that the Minister of Justice was not present because he had already fully responded to this issue. I intend to interrogate him. Every Thursday, we are reminded that all ministers speak on behalf of the government. Therefore, as Secretary of State, on this file, which is anything but banal, the minimum was to consult you with the Minister of Justice so that we could give us clear information today. That has not been done. On the other hand, I note that the government does not announce any action in relation to the mistakes that have been committed and to this prisoner, who, I would remind you, was convicted, was among the most wanted and who is now at large in Albania.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u33	Mrs. Fonck, I don't know where you were when I answered this. I have made it very clear that the government is particularly motivated to allow the person on the must-wanted list to serve his sentence, wherever that is. I've said that here, I think, and I usually know very well what I'm saying. I think I said that. If you have specific questions about the possible arrest of the person concerned, about where he will or will not serve his sentence and what arrangements have been made with the Albanian authorities, then you should not address those questions to me because I am not competent to do so. I have already made that very clear. If you think the government isn't going after that man, you're thinking wrong. You're saying nothing happened and I'm not gonna do anything. I think I just said that we've been together and that we're gonna handle things like we said we're gonna deal with them. I don't know what room you were in when I answered that. You may have been working on your cell phone. I think I have said that we will indeed take initiatives to avoid such matters in the future and to ensure that we work even better together, which we are doing on a larger scale. There is an incredibly large white spot in your party's history, in particular Mr Wathelet's mandate. I read that you want to table a bill to ban family units and not lock up families with children. However, it was an initiative of your Secretary of State to start that up. I know it's been a long time, but I've been in Parliament a long time. Mr Wathelet regularized criminals from prison. In 2010-2011 there were a lot of 777. We repatriate criminals. That's the big difference between your party and mine. I am therefore very glad that I have a chance to remind you of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u34	Mr President, this is all very nice, but we are now moving on to other issues, and I will of course respond. Secretary of State, you are referring to other cases to hide your responsibility – which is serious – in this expulsion, which amounts to the release and impunity of Rustemi. I honestly think it's even lighter on your part! Do you want me to go back to the fact that Mr Wathelet was indeed the first to initiate repatriation policies, with communication campaigns with the countries concerned in order to prevent the citizens of those countries from continuing to have a tendency or desire to come to Belgium? It's a policy you've pursued. Do you want me to come back to the 2011 law, when the President asked earlier that we not go into the substance of this debate? I would also like to address an inquiry into this matter. Do I have to explain to you that the royal decree of July 2018 that you made is absolutely not in conformity with the 2011 law? You allow for the detention of minors for 4 weeks. You have a right to lock up minors for four weeks. That's all except the respect of the law of 2011! Mr President, I would like to start a debate on the substance here. I had not intervened on this subject earlier. The Secretary of State, in an attempt to cover up the serious mistakes that have been committed on the agenda, refers us to other files. We can discuss this, but at some point, I find it totally irresponsible and it misunderstood the responsibility of the Secretary of State in this matter! Secretary of State, you are now saying that the government has done things to prevent it from remaining in nature. But the impression it gives, in any case, is that Rustemi is still in nature! It is very clear and it has been going on for months! It has been months since you could have acted and, logically, as Secretary of State in the same government as the Minister of Justice, you should be informed and, at the very least, have a clear communication on the subject to make good the mistakes clearly attributable to your department! You are fully responsible. We will see what might possibly be changed, but I note that you did not use the levers you had. In addition, since last July, we have been told that things will change. It's September and there's still nothing clear about this from the government!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u35	Mr President, it is difficult to reply to the non-responses of the Secretary of State, who, like many members of the government, is increasingly handling the art of drowning fish. Like my colleague, I have not heard a concrete measure debated or taken by the government to prevent this situation from happening again. It is mild or indecent to simply say that error is human. That is true, except that because of Mr Franken's services and his mad desire to increase his expulsion statistics, justice cannot be done. It is not only a matter of doing justice to society, but also to the victims, for whom Mr Franken did not have a word. These victims are recognized for the acts for which Rustemi was charged, but they may still be subjected to them today because he is at large and there is no guarantee that he will not continue his trafficking in Belgium. In this case, as in many others – and the list is growing – the government is again not fulfilling its responsibilities. A dangerous criminal is released. Justice cannot be done because of Mr. Franken's services and no one assumes his responsibilities in this government. It is all the more deplorable that we simply say that error is human. It's indecent to the victims!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u36	Mr President, in a democracy, a minister takes his actions before Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, you just did it a little over your leg. The fact is that a criminal has been released because, in your opinion, the Foreigners' Office has complied with the Aliens Act. My conclusion is that your laxity in the fight against prostitution and drug trafficking leaves me speechless!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u37	Mr Secretary of State, I am sorry to get back to you, but if I were Secretary of State myself, one of my first questions would be: how many convicts have I deported whose sentence had not started? So these are people who have been taken to their homes but who have been convicted here. It is not a question of people who were on parole, but of people who were effectively convicted and who may not be serving their sentence by eviction to their home country. This is a fairly obvious question. I can imagine that, with your attitude, you asked yourself the same question. So I'd like to know how many there were.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u38	I have answered that several times. How many times do I have to answer? Are we actually being listened to in this House? I will say it again: I have already said it in Dutch and in French, I will repeat it again in Dutch. Of the 1 622 ex-convicts who were removed in 2017, 182 were released under arrest mandate. Similar situations may therefore have occurred.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u39	It's not about the people under arrest. It's about people who were convicted in court proceedings, after which the sentence had to follow. How many of these people might have escaped because of their expulsion?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u40	Nobody. The rest aren't. The rest were finally convicted and then expelled, after prison, or deported to prison in the country of origin. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u41	Is that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u42	Yes, of course. The vast majority is deported after the end of prison in Belgium. Part of it is deported with the intention of serving the prison sentence in the country of origin. For the sake of clarity, that is not my competence, but that of the Justice Department. This is about the interstate transfer of prisoners. That number is also increasing, and we have set it in motion. There were 10 or 20 out of a year, now there are 50. So that is in the right direction. But that remains very limited because many countries are not asking for their prisoners to serve their prisons. Morocco's reasoning is, for example, that we do not allow anyone convicted in Belgium to take a place in our prisons, and they should only serve their prisons in Belgium, because there is also a lack of space in our prisons. I have talked a lot about this with my colleagues. That figure, however, goes up. The International Justice Cell is working very hard on this, more than ever before. However, most persons are expelled from the country at the time when they served their sentence. However, I understand that you will be submitting the written question again. I'll answer them, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u43	Just so we're clear, Rustemi was convicted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u44	He was convicted a few years before.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u45	That's not true. Look at what the police themselves have written. On 25 January 2017, Rustemi was sentenced to nine years in prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u46	(...). That's the point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u47	On 22 February, he was sentenced to a prison sentence of eight years. So he's been convicted twice. He appealed against that last conviction, but not against the first conviction to a sentence of nine years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u48	He was set free by (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u49	However, he was convicted. Are there any such cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u50	(...). I didn't set him free, did I?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u51	My question is whether there have been cases of people who have been convicted, but who still escape their sentence by means of an expulsion and where the execution of the sentence has not yet begun? I know my question is complex, but I would like to know the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-05-54-commissie-ic957x.u52	Mrs De Coninck, the specific answer to your specific question will not be possible in the present committee, because it is ultimately a question relating to justice.
