ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u1	Question No 20322 by Mr Philippe Blanchart is transformed into a written question. Question nr. 20520 by Mrs Carina Van Cauter is deleted. Questions No 20748 and No 20815 by Mr Philippe Blanchart are transformed into written questions. Question No 21000 by Mrs Véronique Caprasse is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u2	Mrs Galant, Mrs Capoen and Mr Senesael are not here and have not indicated anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u3	Madam Minister, this question dates back to October, but I believe it is still topical. It deals with new directives on human papillomavirus and vaccination against it. These guidelines are positive about using Gardasil 9, a new and more effective vaccine. It provides better protection against cervical cancer, 90% compared to 70% for the vaccine that is now being administered. It also doubles protection against the pre-stages of cervical cancer. The new vaccines also offer a very high level of protection against genital warts, while the old ones do not offer protection. My surprise was therefore great, and my indignation was much greater when I read that the schools continue to offer the old and less effective vaccine for free, but that parents who opt for a new and better vaccine should go to the doctor, where they themselves have to pay for the costs of vaccination and consultation. That smells like class medicine. Only those who can afford it will enjoy that more effective vaccine. Only in the school year 2017-2018 will there be a new public tender. I am well aware that you do not have the authority to do so, but I do have a few questions. Do you agree, also as a doctor, that young people with the most efficient vaccine should be treated? At the moment Gardasil 9 costs twice as much as old Cervarix, but are those costs not recovered because fewer women are infected and because fewer women suffer from genital warts? That makes sense to me. Moreover, the price may fall if thousands of vaccines are ordered. The difference will then be much smaller. Do you consult with your colleague Vandeurzen to argue for a faster implementation of the new vaccine? In the meantime, the kids may have been vaccinated this school year. I have no idea, but can you let your light shine over it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u4	Madam President, Mrs Jiroflée, as you point out, I am not the Minister responsible. However, preventing cervical cancer and other cancers in boys and men is, of course, a health concern. Currently, the Knowledge Centre is conducting an investigation after the report of the Supreme Court, which was about the effectiveness of the vaccination, but not about cost-effectiveness. The Centre of Knowledge is currently looking at its economic aspects. Therefore, there should be more information in order to be able to make rational decisions. In order to optimise the prevention of cancers caused by human papillomavirus, there should also be a register of vaccinations. That register must be linked to the dépistage and to the registration of cancers. A significant part of the investments in better vaccination with high coverage can be repaid through less intensive screening and less need to treat HPV-related cancers and cervical cancer precursors. It is therefore important to establish a screening register. The aim is to monitor the effectiveness of vaccination and to differentiate screening according to the history of vaccination. Gardasil 9 protects against two HPV types that cause genital warts, and against seven carcinogenic HPV types that are associated with about 90% of the uterine cancers that we now find. The price formation for the organized vaccination by the Communities will be an important element in determining the choice of vaccine. If a choice is made, it seems obvious to me that the vaccine that provides the best coverage and protection is chosen. The price evolution of HPV vaccines, if the target group is increased, including the boys, will be affected. The cost-effectiveness balance may be influenced by this evolution. There is indeed a need for consultation with the Communities on vaccination policy, not only with Minister Vandeurzen, but also with the others. These consultations will take place at the level of the Interkabinets Working Group on the basis of the results of the study of the Knowledge Centre. Potential benefits of vaccination of boys against the human papillomavirus......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As regards the procurement of the vaccine and the definition of the type of preference, the Land concerned is indeed competent. There will be consultations on this. We therefore attach to this the importance of the screening register and the importance of adjusting the frequency of screenings in vaccinated people. If there is a thorough protection, one should not screen so often, but one should keep doing it, because one can always slip through the meshes of the net. The frequency of screening or whether or not to supplement it with a cytological test can all be discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u5	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I'm glad you're taking this to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u6	Minister, a controversy arose in France about Levothyrox and, in particular, its active substance, L-Thyroxine. Indeed, its side effects are very serious: fatigue, loss of balance, serious falls, nausea, gastric problems, insomnia, tremors, palpitations and heart compressions, etc. Experts recognize that a minority of patients have the particularity of transforming the components of the drug. I will not go into the scientific details of this case. In any case, specialists are wondering how to treat patients who are bothered by such treatment. According to them, they could be offered a small amount of T3. However, the medicinal products containing them have been removed from the Belgian market on the grounds that they present risks of overdose which may lead to cardiac complications. Anyway, this case looks bad. Minister, the French patient associations have sought the attention of the media and the government about the side effects of the new Levothyrox formula. What about Belgium? Studies would be needed to determine the number of patients involved, as well as the type of medicines to be developed. Are investigations being carried out in our country to that end?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u7	Minister, I recently learned that the medicine Levothyrox, used to treat thyroid disorders, was a debate in France. Indeed, the new formula of this medicine would cause many undesirable side effects such as fatigue, stomach aches or vertigo and hair loss. The side effects were so severe that the French authorities decided to open a preliminary investigation for "aggravated trauma, involuntary attacks on physical integrity and endangering the lives of others". In the margins of this investigation, a search took place on Tuesday, October 3, 2017 at the headquarters of the laboratory that manufactures this medicine. The French Government has decided to take up this matter, which has become a major health issue at national level. This is not yet the case with us. Minister, are you aware of this matter? Does the new formula of this medicine circulate to us? Can you estimate the number of people taking this medication in Belgium? Since the new formula was placed on the market, have you ever identified any complaints of side effects? Do you also intend to take up this matter, like the French authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u8	Mrs Gerkens, Mrs Ben Hamou, there are two medicines authorised and marketed in Belgium based on Levothyroxine T4, namely L-Thyroxine from Takeda and Euthyrox from Merck. Levothyroxine is a molecule with a narrow therapeutic margin. This means that the transition to a new formula must be done under medical supervision because an imbalance in thyroid hormones can cause more or less significant symptoms on the body. This is how it can influence heart rate, energy, weight, sleep, digestion. Adjustment of the dosage of the medicinal product may be necessary depending on the clinical status and thyroid hormone levels of the patient. A new formula for L-Thyroxin was placed on the market in Belgium on 1 January 2015. In order to anticipate the problems that may arise from this change, a letter was approved at the time by the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS) and was sent to all doctors and pharmacists in 2014 to inform them that a new drug formula would be placed on the market. This happened in the months prior to the sale of this new medicine on the Belgian market. A press release was also published on the AFMPS home page. In addition, warning cards were distributed by pharmacists to patients to inform them of the change in formula and the need to contact their doctor. The letters to doctors and pharmacists as well as the card for patients are always available on the AFMPS website. As far as the number of people taking this medicine is concerned, I have a table that I will send you. The number of patients is increasing, given the ageing of the population. In 2012, there were approximately 517,000 patients; in 2016, there were 601,000. In France, this has been the subject of a whole debate. Many websites exist, we talk about them. In our country, we have been proactive. All people were warned that they should remain under control, take blood samples and examine the results after the drug change. That's all I can say. It was early 2015, which means that this medication has been taken by people for three years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u9	And in the record of things that don't go well with the medicine?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u10	We were still very proactive. Both individuals and pharmacists and physicians were warned that proper follow-up was required for patients who were being treated with this molecule. I don't know how things went in France.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u11	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Good if it goes well in Belgium. Perhaps this answer will make it possible to reassure, or to awaken attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u12	Mr. André Frédéric didn't say anything. If he does not arrive before 3:00 p.m., his question No. 21009 will be deleted. Mr Daniel Senesael requested the postponement of his question No 21094. Question No 21132 by Mrs Nathalie Muyle is transformed into a written question. Joined Questions Nos 21140 and 23187 by Messrs. Raf Terwingen and Philippe Blanchart are postponed. Question No 21149 by Mr Raf Terwingen is also postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u13	Madam President, I would just like to say that before the recess I asked for the question to be converted into a written question. Of course, I'll put them briefly, but apparently my message has been lost somewhere. Madam Secretary, the most widely used EMD package for electronic patient files is CareConnect. Corilus, the supplier, raised the annual price for that package to EUR 1 702, an increase of 37%. Users point out that Corilus is already late paying the GPs for certain services, including mobile use, medication monitoring and advanced tarification. Doctors who have put all their patient files in one package do not simply switch to another firm and therefore feel a little hostage. Madam Minister, first of all, the doctors are the victims of this price increase, but I fear that the higher practical costs will be compensated through the patients. I would have liked to have heard your views on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u14	Mrs Jiroflée, indeed, software providers have increased their prices, probably also because of the increasingly sophisticated ICT functions they need to offer in order to meet the obligations of eHealth integration. The customers of the software providers, i.e. the general practitioners, have been able to receive a so-called telematics premium since 2016, which can amount to more than EUR 5 000 if all required and desired functionalities are achieved by the general practitioner in accordance with the telematics premium criteria established. Part of that premium will therefore also have to be spent on the software. The government has chosen not to reimburse the software providers directly, but to do so through the doctors, because they have to choose the software package. With this, customers determine the price they want to spend on which quality to which software supplier. It goes without saying that the annual rate cannot be increased annually. This year, too, a telematics premium will be awarded to doctors, at least to doctors who meet the criteria for using the software packages in question. The telematics fee for doctors was introduced by Minister Vandenbroucke. Then it was meant to buy a computer or software. At that time few general practitioners had been computerized and they wanted to give them an incentive to work with the computer. Even if that seems prehistoric, it's only been 18 years. Now one must not only have a computer, one must also work with it. I am thinking, among other things, of charging SUMEHRs. I would like to point out, however, that this is still a fairly large premium of around EUR 5 000. Not all carers benefit from such a premium to the same degree. This premium is also on the list of many other care providers. You took the word "dupe" in your mouth, but I would like to put that into perspective. The doctors were the first and for a long time the only ones who received support for their computer science. I think that's important. I still support that. The introduction of that premium was a good thing. However, the public authorities cannot continue to raise these amounts annually. The point is always included in the medicomut agreement, but sometimes other choices are made. Previously, files were filed. I suppose not every doctor did that himself. That was time-intensive and expensive if you had to let them do it. I am in favour of maintaining that premium, but I am not in favour of infinitely increasing the amount, because it is at the expense of other measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u15	Madam Secretary, I can agree with your last words. I do not think that the premium can be increased infinitely. When I was talking about "dump," I'm mostly concerned about the patient. I am deeply concerned that doctors will pass the costs on to the patient. That is why I am asking the question. You are absolutely right: a premium of EUR 5 000 is not amiss. I therefore agree with you in principle. However, that does not alter my fear that the bill will be passed on to the patient. We're following the file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u16	Minister, this is a question dated October 9, 2017. A few months ago the application and the Vividoctor website were put online. The principle is simple: after completing an online form, the patient is offered a list of doctors available, whether they are generalists, psychiatrists, pediatricians, nutritionists, etc. If none is available immediately, an appointment can be made. The consultation is then conducted via videoconference. Therefore, there is no physical contact between the patient and his or her doctor. Once the consultation is complete, the caregiver may issue his prescriptions. In the current state, these are mailed out, but in the long run, it is expected that they can be sent directly on the electronic ID card. At the time of the filing of my question, about 90 patients had used this service every week; I imagine that now it is more. Several hospitals have also shown interest in this technology. However, the Order of Physicians strongly opposes this practice. For him, it is indeed dangerous to make a diagnosis without physical contact with the patient. Minister, what is your position on this? Have you been informed prior to this project? What future do you see about him?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u17	Mr Flahaux, as regards the appropriateness of practices such as Vividoctor, you should be aware that mobile applications have a wide range of fields of application, including teleconsultation. This application, which seems simple at first glance, can be used for different purposes. Teleconsultation in the context of functional rehabilitation is not at all comparable to an interview between a claimant and a patient about a complaint. In addition, it depends whether the patient already has a close therapeutic relationship with the provider or not. It is this kind of detail that will need to be better documented before legal support for a general use is given. The topic of teleconsultation is currently being developed, in particular with the help of the lessons learned from the pilot projects on which Mrs Muylle's question no. 21133 has been turned into a written question. In my response, I gave an overview of the pilot projects in the context of e-health. I can also pass it on to you. My services are not aware of the number of teleconsultations in Belgium, in particular the fact that this framework to which you refer still needs to be defined. I am confident that when preparing this policy, my services will take into account any lessons that may be useful to learn from the experiences of our French neighbours. However, I want to warn patients of the dangers of this type of consultation. This may be useful in the case of a request for information. A consultation requires questioning and examination of the patient. How can one test a patient and realize his or her physical and mental condition over the phone? It doesn't seem simple to me. It's not a miracle solution. They are convinced of their product. They're entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u18	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. As usual, you are attentive to the evolution of things. I also consider that this situation has both positive and negative elements. Even yesterday, I was looking at a report on poverty which denounced the insufficient medical supply in some remote areas of France. In this case, this may represent progress. I would remind you that this is not just a telephone conversation but a video conference. However, it is important to be certain that the person who picks up is a doctor. This can be done simply by presenting the doctor's card. Improvements still need to be made before you can definitively validate this practice. I imagine that with technological change, we will one day be able to have a consultation, even "physical", through this, but we are not there yet!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u19	Questions Nos 21388 and 21859 of Mr Calomne and Mrs Galant are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u20	Minister, it comes to my mind that, in some hospitals, when a patient needs medication during a stay or an emergency visit, he is surprised to see that he has to pay for all of it while, often, he has only consumed a few spoons of syrup or a few doses of antibiotics. In addition, these drugs, although billed in their entirety, are not returned to the patient upon discharge from the hospital. On the contrary, the patient is prescribed the same medicine that he or she will need to obtain in a pharmacy. So he will have paid for this medicine twice: for the first time in the hospital completely without it being returned to him and for the second time in the pharmacy. Given the sometimes high price of pharmaceuticals, it is aberrant and abnormal that patients do not receive the drugs they paid for and barely started in hospital. Minister, have you ever received an echo of this kind of practice? What, in this case, are the obligations of the hospital? What is the legislation governing the invoicing of medicines by the hospital?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u21	Mrs Ben Hamou, all medicines used in hospital must be delivered by the hospital pharmacist. As far as the issue is concerned, unit delivery packaging should be used as far as possible in the individualised distribution of medicinal products and the number of units dispensed individually may not exceed that required for a treatment period of at least five days. The majority of medicines are offered as units of use, i.e. ampoules, tablets, sachets and effervescent granules. For a limited number of pharmaceutical formats, such as syrups and ointment tubes, the hospital pharmacist may choose to deliver a whole vial or tube to a patient for both practical and hygienic reasons. As regards invoicing, the intervention of insurance due to hospital establishments for reimbursable proprietary medicinal products administered to hospital beneficiaries shall be determined on the basis of a fixed amount per unit of pricing set out in the column "reimbursable base". The charging unit is mentioned in the same list. For oral solid tablets and ampoules, the pricing unit is usually a tablet or ampoule, respectively. For syrups, the pricing unit is expressed in millilitres; for ointments, in grams. The medication, delivered by name within the hospital unit, is billed to the patient. When the patient leaves the hospital or when changing the treatment, the unused medication returns to the pharmacy. The one that has been taken over is deleted from the invoice. The vials of syrup or ointment tubes started cannot be reintegrated into the pharmacy's medicine store - fortunately - for hygienic reasons. Giving the patient the rest of the vial or tube upon departure, as well as billing the entire bottle or tube, seems to be a responsible method of working against wastage. It is because they paid for the whole tube or the syrup bottle that they are given. With pills or suppositories, it's not possible because they are priced per unit. At the one-day hospitalisation level, the same procedure is applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u22	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. If I have to ask you this question, I've been asked by a lot of families with young children. They go to the emergency room; they give the child a spoon or two of syrup and the mother later finds that he was charged the whole bottle. She then wondered why, in that case, she had not been given the full amount, whereas at the same time, she had received a prescription to obtain it from the pharmacy. So I wanted to know if there was a law that governed all of this or whether everyone managed a little as he wanted. One cannot logically charge one or two spoons or a Dafalgan and give again a prescription.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u23	I don't understand how this is possible, but if you say so... They have the right to complain to the hospital or to send a letter to the Ombudsman, as they did not receive the bottle of medicine for the child. Of course, we'll have to go to the pharmacy again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u24	It is not obvious financially for these families, it must be understood that it costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u25	We must not change the law, but practice. They must lodge a complaint either through their mutuality or through the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u26	Minister, my question is about the ongoing reorganization of hospital governance structures, and hence the establishment of hospital networks. In this reflection, I know that the hospital institutions and the ministers concerned of the federated entities are consulted in particular. The 2015 reform plan foresees - and the discussion takes place - to consult doctors at all levels: individual hospital, locoregional network and supraregional network, in terms of advice, advice, management and others. However, it is up to me from other health practitioners and other hospital staff that there is no - or certainly not at that time - social consultation and functional reorganization with these other categories of workers. A working group was to be formed and I would like to know what is happening. I would like to take this opportunity to perhaps get some guidance on timings regarding the evolution of hospital networking.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u27	Mrs Gerkens, a tripartite working group is set up to develop the social aspect of hospital reform. The working group continues its work in the light of progress in the reform of the hospital landscape. With a view to concluding the work on the locoregional clinical networks, a text will be drawn up, in all cases mentioning the following points: the impact of the reforms on the working conditions and remuneration of workers at the level of the network and at the level of hospitals, employment and social consultation. In any case, the existing consultation bodies will be involved in the discussions on the formation of networks and their consequences. The working group met for the first time on 7 December and a second meeting was held on 19 December. With regard to the further implementation of hospital networks, I should like to inform you that in the coming weeks, the discussions at first reading of the draft law on locoregional networks will be finalised. Secondly, the opinion of the Council of State will be sought and, at the same time, the federated entities will agree on the process and timing regarding the implementation of the locoregional clinical networks. I would like to point out that federal legislation is not subject to the approval or advice of the interdepartmental conference. The latter is a consultative body, and the agreement of the federated entities is not required in order to be able to pass a law in the Federal Parliament. I have already said so in the presentation of our policy and I repeat it today: it is difficult to approve all the points of a reform with seven ministers around the table. Ultimately, however, it is important for each authority to take responsibility for making the necessary adjustments within the hospital landscape in order to ensure a better quality of patient care, as well as effective hospital care at an affordable long-term cost. I am making progress within the framework of federal jurisdiction and I am now inviting my colleagues from the federated entities to contribute to it within the framework of their competencies. It goes without saying that within the firm, from time to time, bilateral contacts take place with each Region. The problems are different in Brussels, Luxembourg, the Eastern cantons, West Flanders, Limburg, etc. All these landscapes are different. With my fellow ministers, we often need bilateral contacts and not just on this subject. The sixth reform of the State did not specify that all parts of the country were obliged to move forward at the same speed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u28	Indeed, Madam Minister, we must take account of each other's specificities and, if possible, converge towards a common objective. The main purpose of my question was to ensure that consultations took place in the right order, and before partial or total agreements were reached. I see that the working group has started to work on impacts at different levels, including impacts on employment and on the organisation of work in hospitals. Does that mean that you, too, intend to take control of the impacts before the bill is finally passed? Or is this a procedure that will continue over time?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u29	For this reform of the locoregional networks, we have been able to make progress with regard to certain regions. Others are still in the first stage or have not even started yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u30	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u31	This is not going to end overnight.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u32	Of course. I would just like to stress - in terms of the management and management of hospital networks - the need to take all relevant stakeholders into account, not just the doctors' association.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u33	The incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u34	Madam Minister, this question refers to a number of dossiers in which we have shown that a great deal of public health resources are not always spent efficiently today. We know that every euro can only be spent once. If a euro in health care flows into an expensive brand of medicines while there are cheaper ones on the market, it can no longer be spent on healthcare providers or on new needs for care. In fact, we notice every week in the committee that these needs are very high. That is why you have already taken a lot of measures, including to make better use of cheaper and cheapest prescription. We certainly think that this path is the right way to go. We have also asked for more structural action and to examine the list of recoverable medicines to see what exactly is on them and to screen them for evidence-based support. A few months ago, you replied to a question from me that you did indeed set up a cell to look at exactly what is being paid back today and whether all this still complies with the most scientific guidelines. When exactly did that cell come into operation? How exactly is the investigation conducted? What are the results so far? Have funds already been recovered from the refund, and if so, what are they?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u35	The Federal Government Agreement of October 2014 contains several provisions relating to a stronger enforcement policy in the healthcare sector, including increasing the efficiency of the care provided. Within the RIZIV, Article 35 of the 2016 Administrative Agreement, which runs until 2018 between the RIZIV and the Federal State, has been implemented in this context. Article 35 states that the structural anchoring of the fight against waste will take place as part of the creation of a Cell of Effective Care. Together with the establishment of the cell, the global methodology for the work of the cell is developed. Additional recurrent human resources were provided for the population of the cell. This cell has been fully operational since the first half of 2017. Effective care is also included in the Health Enforcement Action Plan, which covers 2016 and 2017, and has also been extended in an Action Plan 2018 to 2020. The preparation has taken place, but still has to be submitted to and approved by the General Council of the RIZIV. Finally, on 19 December, the National Committee on Medical and Medical Funds concluded a new national agreement for two years. A separate chapter on "effective care' has also been included. For 2018, the RIZIV provides actions aimed at both general practitioners and doctors-specialists. For the general practitioners, the Cell Effective Care of the RIZIV works on the preparation of an integrated feedback by general practitioner in solo practice or group practice on prescription behaviour regarding medical imaging and medication, including antibiotics, polymedicine in the elderly and psychotropic medication, as well as on prescription behaviour in clinical biology. This is an individual feedback per general practitioner practice, which allows to position itself in relation to the other practices within the comparison group. Each general practitioner or group practice receives an individual score for about 45 indicators on the listed domains, based on health care billing data. This feedback also includes a brief explanation of the underlying evidence-based medicine evidence regarding these indicators. A global performance report on general medical practice is also provided for in 2018. The aim is to work simultaneously on follow-up courses for general practitioners in order to achieve a desired behaviour on the consumption of health care. For the target group of doctors-specialists, a standardised methodology has been developed for mapping practical variations, initially by mapping geographical variations, either by district or by county or by region. The choice of selected medical practices for analysis is made through different sources and criteria: the availability of databases necessary for analysis; obtaining wide coverage across all specialities; the existence of complementary data sources, either literature or reports; the topicality; the potential reduction in expenditure to be achieved and the estimation of the presence of obsolete practices within the specialties. In 2019, an individual feedback will also be sent to the specialists, focusing on the prescription behaviour of medicinal products. There are still several actions in the Health Enforcement Action Plan from 2018 to 2020 concerning measures that we can take to adjust that prescription behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u36	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. As for the prescribers, it was clear. Do I fully understand that the cell that has been operational since the first half of 2017 is looking at the list of recoverables? Will they also come forward with proposals on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u37	They look at it mainly by group. A distinction can be made within such a group. Let me give you the example of antibiotics. One then looks at the overall number of prescribed daily doses of antibiotics, but also, for example, what the percentage of quinolones is. After all, we know that too many quinolones are prescribed. That is what we are being alerted to. This is how people work for all groups. It takes longer, of course, for the different specialties. I can't present an ophthalmologist with the same profile as an orthopedist. So that's gonna take more work. However, for general practitioners it is more or less the same battery of regulations that is being considered. Here there are 45 different indicators in the three domains, clinical biology, medical imaging and medication regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u38	Madam President, Minister, the UZ Leuven has had a problem with the display of information. Through its website, the UZ provides information on medicines and implants, especially with a view to informing patients, but it has apparently received a reprimand from the FAGG for mentioning the names of implants and medicines. According to the FAGG, UZ Leuven does publicity. The UZ Leuven has adapted its website for the time being, but there are still questions about the opinion of the FAGG. The UZ Leuven states that if it had to modify all these pages on the website, they would become worthless, since neither the name nor generic ingredients of the medicine may be mentioned. For example, instead of calling an aspirin or such a type of painkiller, one should talk about a pill, but this loses the information about the type of medicine that the patient should take in that case. The UZ asks to clarify where the boundary lies between information and publicity, and whether there are concrete guidelines for the hospital on which it can base itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u39	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, the law of 25 March 1964 on medicinal products defines advertising as all forms of colportage, market exploration or promotion intended to promote the prescription, delivery, supply, sale or consumption of medicinal products. The definition of the term "advertising" should therefore be interpreted broadly. This is reflected, among other things, in the very strict exceptions contained in the same law. The exception concerning information on human or animal health or disease expressly requires that no reference, even indirect, is made to a medicinal product. It is the interpretation of my services at the FAGG that a reference to an active ingredient, such as botulinum toxin A, or the use of general names of implanting aids can be regarded as advertising, in the broad sense of the word, for medicinal products or implantable devices. However, it is necessary that a patient is always adequately informed by the physician about the treatment option. The same law on medicinal products also states that any advertising is prohibited to the public when it concerns a medicinal product which may only be delivered on presentation of a medical certificate or implantable devices. Advertising intended for the public for human medicinal products which are not subject to the presentation of a medical prescription is permitted provided that the legal provisions of the Royal Decree of 7 April 1995 on information and advertising of medicinal products for human use are also complied with. For example, this advertising must be notified to the FAGG. The reference to the package leaflet is possible. This is covered by the exceptions provided for in the Royal Decree of 7 April 1995. Moreover, taking into account possible contraindications and interactions when taking medicinal products, it is appropriate that patients should not be personally informed by the treating physician about medicinal products that they may or may not be able to take in case of certain complaints via the hospital website, but during the consultation. Finally, there are no specific guidelines for hospitals. The FAGG applies the legal provisions to hospitals, as it applies them to all other actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u40	Minister, the list of organ applicants is long and some patients have to wait years before receiving the donation that can change their lives. In the 2007-2010 legislature, Katia della Faille de Leverghem and I had organized a campaign to revive these donations. Faced with this problem, more and more patients are turning to social networks to make calls for help. In the Netherlands, a few months ago, a person gave one of his organs to a person who made such a call on the Internet. This obviously raises ethical questions. At present, organ donation at home is done either through the European donation bank or through a donor who is a member of the family or very close to the patient. The recruitment of donors via the Internet is neither really prohibited nor supervised. Madam Minister, in the face of such an important issue, it seems to me essential that clear legislation on this matter be put in place. So my questions will be simple. To contextualize the problem, can you take stock of the current situation with us? How many people are waiting for an organ donation and what is the average waiting time? What is your position on these "petites" on social networks? Do you have the will to legislate in the short or medium term?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u41	Mr Flahaux, with regard to the collection and transplantation activity, as of 31 December 2017, the number of donors was 28.4 per million inhabitants, the number of patients waiting for 1,210, all lists combined, and the number of patients transplanted to 907 for all organs. The Act of 13 June 1986 on the removal and transplantation of organs authorizes the removal of an organ from a living person provided that the person has previously consented in writing freely and knowingly. The law provides for special conditions for collection if the donor is a minor or if the removal involves non-regenerable organs, e.g. kidneys. A doctor considering organ removal is legally obliged to inform the donor of the psychological, physical, family and social consequences of the removal. He must find that the donor has made his decision with discernment and for an unquestionably altruistic purpose. In addition, any levy on live persons must be subject to prior multidisciplinary consultation between doctors and other healthcare providers, with the exception of those who treat the recipient or carry out the sampling or transplantation. The members of this consultation independently assess the potential donor; in particular, its ability to consent to organ removal. There are therefore many reasons why a potential donor cannot ultimately be accepted. In any event, this decision is the responsibility of the doctor and the medical team. I can't judge. I have attached the opinion of the National Council for Transplantation. I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u42	Thank you very much for the information, minister. Obviously, on the basis of your figures, a quarter of the requests are not met. You mentioned 1,200 applications and 900 transplants. As a result, there are still 300 requests that cannot be met.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u43	No, no, no! The number of patients waiting is 1,200. The number of patients transplanted corresponds to patients who were on hold in a previous sample.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u44	But there's still a gap between the demands!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u45	Yes, yes! There are always people waiting. But it is also certain that the number of transplants has also increased.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u46	But the number of requests too, no doubt!- Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u47	Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u48	So there are probably - and it is deplorable - applicants who die before receiving the gift. Of what will be done – of course, in the standards – to improve the match between supply and demand, while waiting for artificial organs to replace the donations of "living" organs... Since we are called to live up to 140 or 150 years, some say, one organ can be "missed" to replace it with another, more efficient. But we are not there yet, and in the current situation, this call for living solidarity, the organ donation, seems to me extremely important.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u49	Minister, ankylosing spondylitis is, as you know, a rheumatism disease that mainly affects the spine and lower back. Like all rheumatism, it results in pain and loss of joint flexibility. There is no cure for the disease, but it is possible to control its symptoms. Patients can use pain treatments through the use of anti-inflammatory drugs. Corticosteroid injections or so-called background treatments may also be prescribed. These basic treatments, which are biotherapies, are quite recent and apparently make it possible to significantly improve the management of serious cases of spondylitis. Among the medicines used in this context are Enbrel, Humira and Simponi. A new biotherapy called Cosentyx also seems to be very effective. Unfortunately, different criteria must be met for patients to benefit. Minister, it appears that some patients whose spondylitis is developing "low noise" cannot benefit from this new treatment when it seems to allow people with serious forms of the disease to have a better quality of life and an active life. Could you tell us what the criteria for receiving this treatment are? What is the percentage of people with ankylosing spondylitis who benefit from this treatment? Could these criteria be reviewed in the near future? What other options do these patients have if traditional biotherapies do not work?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u50	Mr Frédéric, in Belgium, several biological treatments are already reimbursable in the treatment of ankylosing spondylitis. These include anti-TNF treatments such as Enbrel or Humira, Cimzia and Simponi. In addition to these medications, there is also Cosentyx, which is also refundable in the treatment of ankylosing spondylitis. The repayment conditions for Cosentyx in the treatment of ankylosing spondylitis are comparable to those for anti-TNF. Patients should have a bath ankylosing spondylitis disease activity index score of at least four out of ten indicating an active condition. The blood level of C-reactive Protein (CRP) should be greater than the normal value of the laboratory used. Patients should be previously treated with at least two nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for at least three months and the absence of progressive tuberculosis should be ensured. The conditions for reimbursement of biological drugs for the treatment of ankylosing spondylitis have been developed with rheumatologist experts and are in line with international recommendations. Currently, there is no reason to review the terms of reimbursement for this group of drugs in the treatment of ankylosing spondylitis because the patients who benefit most have access to the reimbursement. The high cost of Cosentyx, more than €4,400 per patient in the first year, is justified for this target group. With respect to the percentage of people with ankylosing spondylitis receiving Cosentyx treatment, it is only refundable in the treatment of ankylosing spondylitis since February 1, 2017 – so it will be a year from tomorrow. The only figures available are those of the Commission's estimate of reimbursement of medicinal products, i.e. between 30 and 90 patients per year to be treated with Cosentyx. After a year, we will see how many were paid, but that was what was planned when the decision was made to repay according to certain criteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u51	Madam President, I thank the Minister for her answer, which I will pass on to associations representing this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u52	Questions No 21598 by Mr André Frédéric and Nos 23226 and 23227 by Mrs Véronique Caprasse are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u53	Madam President, Minister, this is not the first time that we have asked you about the unresolved issue of the lack of internship places for medical students. As a reminder, following the reduction of the duration of studies from seven to six years that came into force in 2012, we will have to face a double cohort representing some 2,000 students in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation who will then have to choose a route of specialization (general medicine, cardiology, paediatrics, etc.).). Solutions in the form of efficient solutions are always waiting. In addition to the lack of traineeships, this influx of students poses two other problems: a lack of traineeships to improve the training of specialist and generalist candidates and a lack of financial resources to pay for these new doctors. Minister, of course, your office has mentioned a number of solutions. Thus, it is envisaged that the six-month internship in hospital followed by basic training can be taken into account in the internship plan – a way to lighten it. It would also be possible to interrupt the traineeship, whatever the motivation, for up to 12 months. In the same vein, it would be proposed to allow part-time internships over a longer period, which could be doubled from three to six years for general practitioners and from six to twelve years for specialist physicians. Additional funding seems to be provided in this case. For my group, these are inadequate and a priori inoperative solutions. They are described as absurd by the Fédération des étudiants francophones and scandalous by the ABSyM. Minister, have the proposed solutions been discussed with representatives of universities, students and medical unions? Have any consultations taken place in this context recently? What specific budget will be allocated within this framework? While the shortage is becoming increasingly threatening among general practitioners and in some other specialties, it seems that, among graduate students next year, one in two doctors will not be able to qualify for an internship. How can you assure them that this will not be the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u54	Frédéric, this is not the first time since the beginning of the legislature that this subject has been discussed. I must have noticed that my predecessors did not make any preparations for the problem you outline. Various initiatives were taken and a policy was developed in 2017 in light of the temporary increase, but for a few years, of the number of doctors in training in the double cohort. From the beginning, I have asked the Higher Council for its opinion on this matter. My strategic unit has had regular contacts with the Higher Council, deans, medical unions and organizations of medical students in training of both entities. As far as general practitioners are concerned, we will also have to take into account the extension of training to three years and the introduction of a hospital internship. Making use of the Law on Compulsory Health Care Insurance and Coordinated Allowances on 14 July 1994, in article 55, I will again take a decision this year so that the budgets for the increased number of candidates in training can be released. I will make funding from INAMI possible for 36 months instead of 24, so three years instead of two. The capacity for general practitioners' internships is insufficient, especially since the two Communities produce a larger proportion of general practitioners: about 40% of the number of students promoted. That is why I have adapted the 2010 Ministerial Decree on Accreditation, taking a provisional measure by which hospital placements in basic training can – and must not – also be valued as professional internships. This will facilitate the writing of internship plans while making it possible for general practitioners to be accredited. Moreover, this measure was assessed by the Council of State on compliance with European legislation, which did not seem to be a problem. For general medicine in practice, the current capacity is 1 947, distributed as follows: 917 on the French-speaking side and 1 030 on the Dutch-speaking side. For general hospital medicine, the capacity is 135, distributed as follows: 87 on the French-speaking side and 48 on the Dutch-speaking side. The projection of capacity expected for October 2018 is, according to a linear progression hypothesis, for general medicine in practice of 2,136, of which 1,030 on the French-speaking side and 2,016 on the Dutch-speaking side and, for general medicine in hospital, of 149, of which 99 on the French-speaking side and 50 on the Dutch-speaking side. Here are the figures projected by the Planning Unit regarding the number of doctors in training during the academic year 2018-2019, according to two separate scenarios. For general medicine, the projected 2018 application (baseline scenario 1) is a total of 1,885, 966 on the French-speaking side and 919 on the Dutch-speaking side. For a scenario with 50% of general practitioners, the projected demand is a total of 2,613, including 1,386 on the French-speaking side and 1,227 on the Dutch-speaking side. The legislation will also be adapted with regard to the seniority of the trainee master for the introduction of traineeship teams. In this way, the traineeship capacity can therefore increase in a qualitative framework. With regard to specialist doctors, I have repeatedly updated the 2014 Ministerial Order on the general criteria for accreditation. The seniority of the trainee master has been reduced and the possibility of part-time traineeships has been introduced. Previously, the possibility of specific internships had already been foreseen. All these measures increase the capacity in internship places by more than 10%. The current capacity is 5,563 and 214 for specialist courses outside INAMI. The projection of the capacity expected for October 2018, according to a linear progression hypothesis, is for the internships of hospital specialists of 5,940 and 239 for specialized medicine outside INAMI. I come to the figures also projected by the Planning Unit regarding the number of doctors in training during the academic year 2018-2019, also according to two separate scenarios. For specialized medicine, the total is 6,542, i.e. 3,278 on the French-speaking side and 3,264 on the Dutch-speaking side. In the second scenario, the total is 5,996, of which 2,991 on the French-speaking side and 3,005 on the Dutch-speaking side. At the moment, the strategic unit is dealing with a royal pre-decree entitled "Proposed amendment of the decree of 21 April 1983 and laying down the procedures for the accreditation of medical specialists and general practitioners". By the latter a temporary measure in this procedural decision takes effect: already approved internship services may apply on the basis of a reasoned file to temporarily increase the quota of doctors to be trained. Of course, from this dossier, there must be sufficient guarantees as to the quality of training and support provided to doctors in vocational training. Finally, I proposed a Green Paper on the financing, quality and programming of internship places. The project had been evaluated with the Higher Council, medical unions, deans and student representatives. Everyone was supportive of the concept. The aim is to create a pool of financial resources that will serve as a personalized funding model for physicians in training. The funding is partial and intended for the pedagogical part of the internships. The Medical Mutualist Commission has already taken this into account and the budget for traineeships in non-university services can be increased from the above-mentioned pool. In the meantime, the departments have been responsible for drawing up the Green Paper as a White Paper. At this time, close consultation is planned with the Health Professional Strategy Services of the FPS Public Health and with the legal department of the INAMI. I also involve the experts of the medical faculties, given their experience with the partially académized training. In the coming months, it will become clear what legislative initiatives will need to be taken and how an inter-administrative organisation for the allocation of personalized vouchers and the monitoring of the quality of internships can be set up in the health authorities. Students and doctors in training will be involved very closely. As for the amount required, I have already presented this issue to the government. This will be discussed at the time of the conciliation when the budget is checked in March. If I may say so, I think I've taken on my responsibilities. A huge amount of work has been done in consultation with all parties. I cannot say that my predecessors have done the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u55	Madam Minister, I understood that because you ended up as you started. I'm used to hearing that what was done earlier was not good, to believe that you didn't exist before or that you weren't in the government. Everything that was done before was bad and everything that is done now is excellent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u56	Nothing had been done! That's the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u57	The work is so excellent that there are mood movements – and it is quite normal – in the training of doctors who express themselves publicly. I'm not making it up! I am the modest representative of the people. I'm not from this sector like you. When they express their difficulties, it does not seem to me abnormal to postpone the questioning of these people. I'm doing my job. It's not questionable. When we invest so many years and money in training at this level, it is quite normal to ask ourselves whether we can exercise, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u58	That is why all students were kept informed of the measures, even those whose ideology is different.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u59	Minister, I wanted to make this point because I'm tired of hearing that it wasn't done before. To have a sense of responsibility is also to gain height, nobility and humility in relation to the ephemeral functions that we all fulfill, both you and I, by the way. Minister, to support you in your pro-active approach, and since you are going to encrypt and ask for the necessary resources from the government, I would like to support you constructively by putting forward a motion of recommendation that indicates that, as you are doing, – I am not putting you in trouble – to continue to carry out useful consultations with federated entities, university representatives, students and medical unions, so that adequate responses can be found to the lack of internship places or the lack of traineeships and the lack of financial resources due to the upcoming double cohort, to identify the necessary budgets and quickly put on the table solutions to ensure the future of all medical students by guaranteeing them quality internship places. I have tabled this motion of recommendation, Madam Chair, and I request that it be noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u60	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. André Frédéric and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr. André Frédéric and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the government - to continue to carry out useful consultations with federated entities, representatives of universities, students and medical unions so that adequate responses can be found to the lack of traineeships, the lack of traineeships and the lack of financial resources due to the future dual cohort; - to draw up the necessary budgets and quickly put on the table solutions to ensure the future of all medical students by guaranteeing them quality internship places." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr André Frédéric and reads as follows: "The Chamber, President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, calls on the Government - continue the useful consultation with the sub-areas, the representatives of the universities, the students and the medical syndicates in order to find adequate solutions to the lack of internships, internships and financial resources due to the expected double cohort; - to allocate the necessary resources and quickly propose solutions to ensure the future of all medical students by guaranteeing their good internships." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Dirk Janssens. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u61	Madam Minister, as has already been said, care for patients with type 2 diabetes is very well developed. Steps have also been taken to take a closer look at this. However, there is still an important element missing, namely a real precourse where patients already receive more support through education at an earlier stage, including but not only through the podologist. Today it is limited to patients who inject insulin and it is too late. During the round table on diabetes, which we organised in October 2017, specialists underlined that there is a preliminaries coming, but that it was reserved for patients under 69 years of age with a BMI of 30 or higher. Is dat juist? What exactly is the proposal on the table? What logic is behind the age link? In what way is such a policy evidence-based?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u62	Mrs Van Camp, there are three programmes in Belgium for the follow-up of a patient with type 2 diabetes: the type 2 diabetes care pathway, the type 2 diabetes agreement and the type 2 diabetes care model. A patient with type 2 diabetes can be included in a preliminary pathway from diagnosis. If his disease evolves, he can switch seamlessly to a care pathway called type 2 diabetes or a diabetes agreement, which is if he or she becomes an insulin dependent. As an additional project, we have already implemented the preliminary pathway, so the route before he has to inject insulin, since 1 February 2016. It is intended to guide patients at an earlier stage of disease. They should not be followed in a care pathway type 2 diabetes or a diabetes agreement, as it is actually intended to detect the new patients at a much earlier stage. In the preliminary phase, the GP or registered GP practice should identify and register the patients concerned in practice, record the patient's clinical and biological data in the dossier, as described in the healthcare protocol, provide targeted care based on the evidence-based recommendations for good practice and discuss the individual objectives with the patients and record them in the GMD. It concerns both weight reduction, exercise, diet and the average haemoglobin A1c, which should be pursued. The patient is given access to dietary supplies and, if he belongs to a risk group, also to podology. At the end of 2015, I made available an envelope for multidisciplinary initiatives in the first line. A working group of the RIZIV Insurance Committee has put forward proposals for multidisciplinary initiatives on the education of the sub-target group of patients with type 2 diabetes with a lead path, namely those who make the greatest health gains in early intervention. The sub-target group was defined by the Scientific Institute for Public Health by linking data from the health survey to data from the insurance institutions. The criteria for the target group are the following. These should include persons aged 15 to 69 years, with an increased cardiovascular risk, defined with a body mass index greater than 30 years, and/or arterial hypertension. The draft royal decree for the new provision of indications is currently before the Council of State. I expect the entry into force as soon as possible. These are new indications that will be made more accessible to a broad group. We will also evaluate the project.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u63	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Your answer was very clear. It is good that there is a draft royal decree on the subject, because education for that group is indeed lacking. It is a pity, however, that the measure is reserved for the group with the highest risk. Perhaps the group could be extended if the measure proved to be effective after the evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u64	Madam President, Madam Minister, this question emerged at the round table on diabetes care, where it was said that there is a need for the outpatient use of vacuum therapy. This is not happening today, because its reimbursement is not regulated in the outpatient sector. Is this true? If so, why? Are there any changes to be expected to allow reimbursement of the outpatient application of vacuum therapy?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u65	Madam President, at the moment there is no nomenclature code for this specific wound care in home care to be charged and reimbursed by medical care insurance. Today, the patient himself is responsible for the costs, insurance, warranty and rent of the pumping system, depending on the manufacturer or owner of the used appliance, and for the cost of the care equipment. I have allocated over EUR 1 million for a pilot project to assess whether this technique can be applied at home, what the financial impact will be and how it is experienced by home nurses and patients. The aim is to cover almost all costs for patients within the project. This is currently being worked out in practice and has yet to be submitted to the various committees and committees involved in the RIZIV. Normally, it should start this year. We will then call on those who could join this pilot project. So the step to the refund is near. I have been told that this is a fairly recent therapy, which was not used at home in the past because this was not technically possible. Now, however, this could be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u66	It's very nice that this project is in the pipeline. Hopefully, the pilot project will be able to start this year, as planned, with rapid results and a nomenclature number.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u67	Madam Secretary, this too is a short question. In epilepsy, Depakin is paid back, but Micropakin doesn't seem to be. Madam Secretary, why isn't Micropakine being repaid? Contrary to what many people think, it is often not a political decision. The company may not yet have applied for repayment or an application has been submitted, but it has been assessed negatively by, for example, the CTG. Do you know the exact reason for Micropakine's non-refunding?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u68	Mrs Van Camp, the CTG has not yet received the request for reimbursement from the company. The CTG cannot make a decision without an application. So far, the company has not applied. Micropakine is therefore not at all available on the Belgian market. We do not know why no application has yet been made. Such a decision is entirely up to the firms. If the firms do not apply, then we cannot deal with the question on our own initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u69	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u70	Are we stopping the meeting, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u71	Yes, because I have to go to a symposium. It's the Reyerslaan and I've been told it's very crowded there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u72	All right, then, we will close our work after Question No 21640 by Mrs Yoleen Van Camp.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u73	For Mrs Ben Hamou's question on the dangerousness of the tampons, I can provide a written answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic807x.u74	All right, Question No 21636 by Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou is therefore transformed into a written question. It was agreed with your firm that questions would be asked during our meeting on Wednesday, February 7. I'll see with Mrs. Anne Dedry if we have to change her questions or report them, because she fell on a bike.
