ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u1	Colleagues, as the minister is here and the main facilitator of the afternoon, we can begin our work, which consists of a long series of questions in the field of energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u2	Mr President, you will recall that this set of questions has already been tabled before, but we did not have the opportunity to deal with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u3	I remember!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u4	The dates mentioned in my question are therefore quite distant. I beg your pardon. It is related to the fact that we have not been able to deal with these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u5	It is independent of your will, I grant it to you!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u6	Madam Minister, in response to my oral question No 23073, you informed me on 31 January that you would soon meet Mr Pinkwart, the new Minister of Energy for North Rhine-Westphalia. Has this meeting ever taken place? If not, when is it planned? If so, when did it take place and, above all, what does it show? What has been said about the possibility of supplying German electricity in exchange for shutting down one or more reactors in Tihange? What are the terms of this discussion? What is the offer offered by the Germans? How do you react to this stretched hand? What is the next step in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u7	Mr Nollet, thank you. You have fully respected the speaking time; it is also a crucial element for this afternoon. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u8	Mr President, Mr Nollet, indeed, several questions need to be updated. We will do what is necessary both in terms of questions and answers. On February 28, 2018, I met Mr. Pinkwart at his request. As regards a regional minister, as I have already had the opportunity to point out several times to one of his colleagues, I explained to him that his proposals in terms of the possibility for a German power plant to supply electricity to Belgium had to be discussed first and foremost with the regional minister concerned. I would dare say, in a much broader exchange, that Mr Pinkwart had already been aware of the content of my discussions with his Minister-President, Mr Laschet, whom I had met at the German Embassy in Belgium and which I had already had the opportunity to explain these elements. Contrary to what you're saying, he didn't mention anything about the possibility of providing German electricity in exchange for shutting down the Tihange reactor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u9	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I note that this is not in exchange for the shutdown, but he nevertheless proposed the possibility of supplying electricity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u10	This concerns only the regional level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u11	Mr President, Madam Minister, it was in March 2016 that all the radiological approvals of the Doel nuclear power plant were suspended with immediate effect. The same decision came in April 2016 for Tihange. A biennial report was requested from ONDRAF. Madam Minister, I would like you to take stock of the state of affairs updated in February 2018 with regard to waste packed in Tihange where seven approvals have been suspended or expired and in Doel where three approvals have been suspended or expired, and with regard to waste not packed in Tihange where two approvals have been suspended. Where are we today? Is it acceptable for Electrabel to operate for so long without approval?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u12	Mr President, honourable Member, in simplified terms – it is not I who say it, it is the technical worker, but you will soon understand why – these approvals represent a certificate of conformity of the procedures put in place by operators, equipment equipment, family of waste by family of waste, in terms of the processes used and in terms of radiological assurance to the operators that these future radioactive waste treated, conditioned or measured by these equipment can be taken over in good time by ONDRAF. The details are regulated by the Royal Decree of 18 November 2002 regulating the approval of equipment for the storage, treatment and packaging of radioactive waste. Where an operator does not have the process approval and/or radiological approval for a category of waste, he may not submit the waste for acceptance by ONDRAF. It is then impossible for it to transfer the waste it produces from this category to the latter. Therefore, the operator must keep them temporarily in its own facilities, in the secure storage facilities provided for that purpose, under its responsibility, in particular by its physical control department and under the supervision of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, until such renewal of these approvals. It is also the operator's responsibility to ensure that valid approvals are available, if it wishes to condition, process or measure radioactive waste by its equipment for acceptance by ONDRAF. Following the suspension of Electrabel's approvals for the Doel and Tihange nuclear power plants, I had requested that ONDRAF keep me informed on a semi-annual basis of developments with regard to all of Electrabel's approvals. I have already received two semi-annual reports from ONDRAF, which presented the situation as at 24 March 2017 and 22 September 2017. As far as the situation at its Doel site is concerned, the operator Electrabel has recovered six licences out of a total of ten. These are process approval and three radiological approvals for unpackaged waste, and process and radiological approvals for conditioned filters. With regard to conditioned concentrates, Electrabel considers that the recovery of approvals is to be foreseen in 2020 after the completion of the research and development on the new process and its validation by ONDRAF. With regard to packaged resins, Electrabel considers that the recovery of approvals is to be foreseen in 2019-2020 after the completion of the research and development on the new process and its validation by ONDRAF. On its Tihange site, Electrabel has recovered four out of a total of nine approvals and estimates that in the short term, seven out of nine will be recovered. In the case of unpackaged waste, process approval has been recovered and two radiological approvals must be made in the short term. In the case of conditioned filters, process approval has been recovered and radiological approval should be recovered in the short term. In the case of conditioned concentrates, process approval has been recovered and radiological approval should be recovered in the short term. With regard to packaged resins, Electrabel considers that the recovery of approvals is to be foreseen in 2019-2020 after the completion of the research and development on the new process and its validation by ONDRAF. It should be noted that Electrabel has, for these two sites, the so-called packaging approval for the drum in which the packaged waste is deposited.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u13	Minister, beyond these figures, what do you think? Do you find it normal, acceptable, that Electrabel has only recovered – because these are the approvals they have and have lost – about half (ten out of 19) of the approvals and the last recoveries are planned for 2020? It is still a lack of seriousness, professionalism in this matter! As the minister responsible, does this not bother you a little, beyond the information on the figures you give? Thank you for that and for asking for a biannual report. But what I was asking was the political analysis you made of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u14	I don't do a political analysis at the coin-cutter, but technically, there are certainly things that should be explained to us. I would like to discuss this with you on the occasion of a next question. In the answer that has been prepared for me to serve you, there are several questions about research and development processes. It is obvious that from the moment when there are probably better ways to process this waste to get approval from ONDRAF, there are things that are not said here, that could escape us and that I am not going to comment on before that. I note, however, that ONDRAF did what I had requested, namely a semi-annual report on the situation. I received the last one on September 22. Six months have passed since then. We passed the course of February. I'm going to interview ONDRAF again, to find out where things are. It would be interesting for us to have a more in-depth discussion on the contours of the technical concept of research and development.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u15	I agree with you. I don't have a problem with ONDRAF. Here, in this case, the ONDRAF gives you the report. I was asking you the question about Electrabel. The problem is at Electrabel's, while ONDRAF only gives you the report. You say you don't want to make an answer to the coin cutter. I must remind you, however, that my question had been tabled for two months. If your answer were to be taken away, it would in any case not have been my responsibility, but yours. This is your management of the questions that I have been asking you for two months. I agree, however, that it would be a good idea to discuss this next time. I will come back to you to deal with this issue, this time I hope in more depth.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u16	Minister, at the time I tabled my question, ENGIE had just released its 2017 financial results. How do you analyse the fact that, for the estimation of the value of its Benelux goods, ENGIE continues to value financially a 20-year extension for 2 second-generation reactors while the law, the draft Energy Pact and the Prime Minister's comments confirm a complete exit in 2025? How do you take into account the financial fragility of a major operator by using references that are contrary to all indications? Is it not necessary to strengthen the legislative framework to avoid the consequences of a potential financial maladministration of this operator in view of the enormous responsibilities which it has and which it will have, in particular in the financing of operations for the dismantling and management of nuclear waste? Should we not urgently secure the nuclear supplies that are currently stored in a subsidiary – largely reused within the group – of a group that uses financial valuation parameters that deviate from legal and political indications? At the time of the publication of its results, ENGIE indicated that it would require the establishment of an "English-language" mechanism for securing investments and guaranteed prices in nuclear energy in the event of the extension of new power plants. Has he ever told you about it? In what terms? What was your reaction? Beyond the fact that the law and your government agreement do not provide for such an extension – and a fortiori such a support mechanism – what do you think of this kind of mechanism and what it gives to say about the competitiveness of the extended nuclear against other energy sources?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u17	Mr President, it is not for me to comment to Parliament – or elsewhere – on the financial results of companies listed on the stock exchange and subject to the relevant rules. On the other hand, I can provide some answers to your questions in the areas of my competence. Before I answer, I want to highlight elements of the financial report that you mention. I quote: "Taking into account 1. the extension of the units of Tihange 1, Doel 1 and 2 beyond 40 years; 2. the significant share of nuclear production in the Belgian energy mix; 3. the lack of a sufficiently detailed and attractive industrial plan to encourage energy players to invest in alternative thermal capacities; 4. the objectives of reducing CO2 emissions; ENGIE considers that nuclear production will remain necessary to ensure Belgium's energy balance beyond 2025. Consequently, ENGIE uses in its calculation of the utility value a 20-year extension hypothesis of half of its second generation fleet of units, namely Doel 3, Doel 4, Tihange 2, Tihange 3, while taking into account a nuclear contribution mechanism for the benefit of the Belgian State. If the circumstances described above were to evolve in the future, ENGIE might have to adapt its industrial scenarios accordingly." He bets – as you have pointed out – an extension of the operating time of his reactors and believes that these scenarios are the most credible and probable seen since Paris. What, on the other hand, have we decided in Belgium? On April 20, the government agreed on a federal energy strategy that, among other things, confirms and frames the release of nuclear power in 2025. It also decided to launch a procedure for monitoring security of supply, compliance with the Paris Climate Agreements, maintenance of an affordable price for households and businesses, and security of facilities. Finally, a federal "Energy" committee will be established to issue annual recommendations to the federal government, which, if necessary, will take all necessary corrective action. As far as nuclear provisions are concerned, at our committee meeting on 7 March I replied to questions No 23166, No 23687 and No 23706. Similarly, at the committee meeting on 25 April, I answered questions Nos 24900 and 25069. In order to ensure even better the existence, sufficiency and availability of provisions to cover all the costs of dismantling nuclear power plants and managing spent fuel, the Commission for Nuclear Supplies had drawn up at the end of 2017 and at the beginning of 2018 a proposal – as I had hoped – to amend the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and the management of irradiated fissile material in these plants. The Belgian State must take appropriate measures to ensure that sufficient financial resources are available at the appropriate time to cover the costs of dismantling nuclear power plants and managing radioactive waste and spent fuel. I am currently examining this matter and will propose it to the government, which will decide on the direction to be taken by the analysis and content of the proposal submitted to me by the Commission on Nuclear Supplies, which aims to strengthen the legal framework in force. I also refer you to my answer to your question No 25529. As you can see, I am preparing for the release of nuclear power in 2025 in a serene and responsible manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u18	Minister, I don't know if your answer was complete, but there was nothing about the English-language mechanism. I don't know if it's normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u19	I do not see what mechanism you are talking about, unless you talk about existing mechanisms in terms of capacity compensation support, in which case there will be adequate questions and answers about this later in our exchange.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u20	ENGIE requires mechanisms to support its nuclear power generation by guaranteeing prices. This is what is called "in English", according to various possible mechanisms. In relation to this, I also expected a further response from you to the other elements. Of course, you say that the government maintains the capitalization, but I do not understand your silence on ENGIE, which still uses today – particularly at its general meeting in May – figures truncated with regard to the framework of the current law in Belgium, namely that everything stops in 2025, and in relation to what you were able to confirm in the framework of the Energy Pact. I do not understand that ENGIE, which is one of your main partners, continues to give you an arm of honour by saying that all this is fragile, that it does not hold the road, that it does not take account of the real needs, that it is not strong enough and therefore that the extension is maintained. But you remain silent and let that pass as if nothing were then that it weakens this operator – from a financial point of view, but that is his problem! – with regard to the establishment of the necessary reserves for dismantling and waste management. As a citizen and a political leader, I think you have to react. You mustn't let it happen. You need to have a stronger and more virulent response to the use of truncated data, particularly in the context of market information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u21	Mr President, I will put my questions one by one. Since they were tabled, the situation has changed, but it will be reflected in the minister's response and I will reply. What explains that the October agreement on support for the three most recent wind farms in the North Sea has not yet been translated into legal text at the beginning of March at the time when I tabled my question, while the time is running out for the parks to be built in 2020, which matters to us all? When do you expect to file the file with the European Commission? Have IKWs already been organized about the royal stop or is the blockage at your level? Second question, since you have joined it, do you confirm that you are in charge of submitting by 27 April at the latest, now exceeded, a draft royal decree on the support of Northwester 2 offshore parks, Mermaid and Seastar, so that it can be forwarded to the European Commission as soon as possible? What are you doing in drafting and negotiating this draft royal decree? When is the production of these parks planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u22	Mr President, this is the typical case of a question that is going to be updated, since it has been asked - and of course you have no complaints about it - without having been able to answer it quickly, I recognise it. Since then, time has passed. On April 27, 14 days after your question was tabled, things were completely different. You see that sometimes the process can be very fast. It's not because you don't see anything that nothing happens. So I'll tell you what the situation is. You refer to the offshore wind support mechanism framework. Support for the generation of electricity from renewable energy sources, particularly the energy produced by offshore wind farms, has its legal basis in Article 7 of the Electricity Act and in the Royal Decree of 16 July 2002 on the establishment of mechanisms for the promotion of this energy. Following discussions with the offshore wind farms concerned, the Council of Ministers of 27 October 2017 had adopted an economic framework, on the basis of which it gave me a mandate and the Secretary of State for the North Sea, each of whom, in terms of its competence, to implement this framework and to take the necessary regulatory measures. As a reminder, the reasoning behind the discussion on this framework was the desire to avoid any oversubsidization of parks, in particular with regard to the evolution of technology, to favour the interest of the consumer without preventing the actors from developing the installation of renewable energy in Belgium and to develop, through this yard and this company, a real competence now recognised in Belgium and abroad. It was therefore a matter of translating an overall economic clarity and principles into a detailed text. This has been the subject of a comprehensive work which has required several exchanges, maintaining the original principles. Following my formal request of 21 March 2002 and in accordance with the legal framework, the CREG sent me a proposal for a royal decree amending the basic royal decree of 16 July 2002. This draft royal decree was obviously the subject of the usual political route to land in time and in time - thus on 27 April - on the bench of the Council of Ministers, which therefore confirmed the royal decree on the support of the last three offshore parks, which was transmitted to the European Commission. Production of these parks is planned for 2019 and 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u23	EZB is a company located in Seneffe, whose activities have been non-existent for more than ten years. Minister, what is the amount of EZB's potential nuclear liability today as estimated by ONDRAF (National Radioactive Waste and Fortified Fissile Material Organization)? And what is now the amount of EZB's potential nuclear liability as estimated by EZB itself? How has this liability evolved in recent years? How much was it assessed by ONDRAF in its previous inventory, which covered the period 2008-2012? How can we justify an increase in liabilities while the company is at a standstill? What have you put in place to prevent this potential liability from becoming a real liability? Don't you think it's urgent to take over the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u24	As my colleague, the Minister of the Interior Jan Jambon, told you in his answer to question No.16983 on 8 March 2017, which was already following other questions on your part, namely questions Nos.11819 and 10152 dated 2016, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency found that there was no danger and that the company did not commit an offence. It shall comply with the conditions of its operating authorisation. Therefore, nothing can be imposed on it, either as regards dismantling or as regards waste management. On the basis of the information available in the draft initial decommissioning plan proposed by EZB, ONDRAF has made its own estimate of decommissioning costs, amounting to EUR 10.3 million. Or rather billions, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u25	I urge you not to think that these are billions because, in this case, the company would certainly be in negative.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u26	I think it's billions, but I'm going to ask the question and make sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u27	Madam Minister, if that is EUR 10 billion, that is more than for nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u28	I don't understand. So it's probably 10.3 million euros in 2016 value. But it's no more than the dismantling of power plants if we listen to you. Because you say it will cost 30 billion euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u29	For all nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u30	You see that the order of comparison is not necessarily stupid.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u31	Yes, totally. You say they're billions and I'm telling you they're millions. The EUR 30 billion referred to concerns all power plants and waste management.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u32	All right, all right. In the 2008-2012 inventory of nuclear liabilities, ONDRAF estimated the decommissioning costs of EZB's facilities at EUR 4.5 million in value 2011. At that time, ONDRAF did not have an initial decommissioning plan for EZB's facilities. ONDRAF informed me that the increase in the estimate is primarily due to the sharp increase in the quantity of infrastructure materials activated following a new measurement campaign. This increase is also due, but to a lesser extent, to the increase in ONDRAF's radioactive waste management tariffs. The financial provisions set up by EZB as at 31 December 2011 amounted to €3.6 million. My colleague the Minister of the Interior and I are following the development of this issue. In the current legal framework, we cannot and must not force this company to completely dismantle its facilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u33	Minister, you will excuse me for being consistent and respectful. Coherent, because it is a company that I have been in for a long time; it is located in my region, it has been inactive for ten years but is a real danger because of the nuclear components that are on the site and are no longer managed. Respectful, because the part of safety is the responsibility of your colleague, to whom I will therefore ask these questions. Here, I did not ask questions about this aspect. I didn't ask you about danger, but about nuclear passive. You have reported on the evolution of ONDRAF figures: between the old survey and the current one, there is a gap of 4 million euros. You relate this to the evolution of prices, which is logical in this respect, but also to the evolution of what is taken into account as to be dismantled because it has been affected by radioactive materials. This development is still not neutral. But you do not give me the figure of evolution as the company itself envisaged. Do you have any? It is necessary to be able to compare the figures and check that what the company itself announces corresponds to what the ONDRAF finds. This gap is an issue for us. He was well mentioned in my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u34	We'll answer you, but I don't have that information in front of me. The answer that has been prepared does not include this element, except for the financial provisions set up by EZB as of 31 December 2011 – which must at least proceed in their head of an intrinsic evaluation – amounted to EUR 3.6 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u35	That was the figure, Madam Minister. I had more or less the same number, but I wasn't sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u36	Indeed, I said it in my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u37	That's the figure I want to highlight. I ask you to compare the number of provisions, 3.6, and what the ONDRAF calculates as the cost, more than 10 million, for a company that has been out of business for ten years! I would like to draw your attention to the risk of creating a liability, which will be transferred to the State. We have known other companies in the Charleroi region in the same case. That is the problem, not the security aspect; for that I have exchanges with the Minister of the Interior and he answers me. But with regard to your responsibility for this gap, I would like you to be able to act, even if it is a company that has been out of business for ten years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u38	I get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u39	This gap needs to be bridged. Otherwise, it will come to the State or the Region, as has already been the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u40	In my view, there is a legislative or regulatory vacuum that needs to be filled. The corrected value assessment 2016 shows this significant gap that you're talking about, while at the same time, the ONDRAF tells me that waste is under secure storage conditions, so there's nothing to be blamed for.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u41	Okay, but it's another part. The problem here is dismantling, not just waste management.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u42	Your comprends bien.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u43	And now I'm worried about the gap between the two because if you don't act quickly... Finally, it will be difficult today to recover about six million from a company that no longer has economic activity. So I am really asking you to intervene purely on this issue so that the caisses can be bailed out. The difference between the two is simply the result of a lack of provision in relation to a charge which will exist in any case at the appropriate time since it has been reassessed by ONDRAF. Unless prices are to fall, you will admit that there is little chance of that happening. This six million difference, given the company's situation, is an issue for you. So I ask you to take this in hand so that we don't stay there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u44	We have no news of Mrs Temmerman, who must ask her question No 25176 attached to Question No 24899 by Mr Nollet. If you accept a certain degree of flexibility, I would propose to move to point 23, which is the inquiry. Mr de Lamotte is asking questions in another committee and will come back. Mrs. Lalieux, too. So if the minister and Mr. Nollet agree, we could proceed to the inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u45	I don't want to do it today and I asked for Mr. Nollet to be notified. I hope that has been done.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u46	I didn't know. In any case, the inquiry is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u47	What happened was that I received it around noon because there was a problem with Parliament's server. My co-worker informed me that this inquiry was remitted. In the meantime, I have requested a meeting between my firm and Kris Peeters to answer the various questions of your inquiry, they are numerous. And I haven't had that date yet. It is true that the month of May is a little complicated and we have not yet managed to find an agenda in line with the agendas of the two officials in our respective offices. I would like to stress that. It is not bad will but frankly, I did not expect to receive it again so quickly. I can understand that there was no reason for you not to resubmit it this time, but I was not aware of it in the questions I received yesterday; I received it only today around noon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u48	I simply see that this inquiry is on the agenda; in principle, the services of the House are transmitting questions and inquiries. I am not in a position to say whether there has been a transmission problem, but the inquiry is on the agenda, so I imagine the services have transmitted it. Moreover, it is an inquiry, not an ordinary question, so it must be dealt with with with a certain diligence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u49	Very honestly – it depends on how the emergency is assessed – but here, given the subject, with regard to a five-year report on the inventory of nuclear liabilities covering the period 2013-2017, the urgency is relative. On the other hand, if we have to look at what time and at exactly what second I received this inquiry today, I can tell you. I am trying to point out to you that I have not been able to treat her so that I have no hindrance to the timing of this inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u50	Mr President, I would like to make two points. First, I inquired about the services; the mail left on May 2, so a few days or hours after I resubmitted the inquiry. So the minister had to receive it long before the inquiry officially appeared on the agenda, what is normal is the procedure. In addition, it went to the Conference of Presidents because it is an inquiry. Thirdly, if you reread our exchange of 24 April last, you replied: "my answer will be very simple: this document is still under analysis and so we cannot yet answer your inquiry on an important document", etc. And I reply: "I understand that you had to take the time to analyze this document. I regret, however, that we are wasting time when certain things are urgent. The ones I have pointed out do not, of course, cover the whole report. This is an inquiry and your answer is, to say the least, laconic." This is my reply of the time but I also say: "I will come back to it on 23 May and I hope that by that date you will have had time to read and to consult to answer it". I therefore announce the colour on 24 April. It's May 23rd; I re-submitted the inquiry in good form, it was sent to you on May 2nd and you tell me again that you have no answer. It's starting to be a problem for me. Is there not a real political problem behind this? It's an arrest. It could therefore be followed by a motion. However, I am unable to file it because there is no answer now. So I want to know when I will be able to deal with it knowing that the Rules provide for a period of one month. Otherwise, it's going to the plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u51	I understand, of course. It is true that I should always remember everything you tell me from one committee to another, so as not to forget anything. So, now, forgive me, but my memory has limits.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u52	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u53	I'm not talking to you, Mr. Calvo. My memory has limits. It is quite obvious that here the services, Mr Wettach in this case, are fully aware of what has happened. I can only repeat what my collaborator told me. Do not see political problems where there are none. Honestly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u54	We are in the questions here and this is not a debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u55	Mr President, for the inquiry, the Rules of Procedure give me the right to have the answer within a month. So I want us to find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u56	I hear there may have been a procedural problem with this inquiry. In principle, when there is an inquiry, a mail sends services to the minister or his cabinet. The item is on the agenda. You say you didn't get it. We note that there is no answer today. As Mr. Nollet says, if an inquiry is filed, it must be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. An attempt will be made to set a date for this inquiry to be dealt with in committee within fifteen days. Anyway, starting today, if there's been a coucac, it's 15 days. We'll come back to this question. We are going to consult for this inquiry to be put on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u57	That's right. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u58	In the meantime, Mrs Temmerman pointed out to me that she could not be present to ask her attached questions Nos. 25176, 25174 and 25022. I come back to Mr. Nollet's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u59	The newspaper L'Echo of April 6 tells us that the Seraing gas plant announces its return to the market and that the one in Vilvorde could do the same, while they were part of the strategic reserve over the last four winters. The decision seems to have been taken on a board of directors on March 29. When were you informed of this? You had a reserve of 500 megawatts for next winter. Will you review this volume with the return of the 470 MW of Seraing? Can you imagine that these 'earning' power plants have access to the future capacity compensation mechanism? What impact do these returns have on the need for new gas-fired power plants under the Energy Pact? How many new plants do you now consider the need? More specifically with regard to the Vilvorde power plant, have you been informed otherwise than by the press of the preparation of an application for an extension of the licence to bring the total capacity to 1,000 megawatts?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u60	Mr President, EDF Luminus sent me a letter announcing the withdrawal of Seraing's final closure on 29 March. I haven't received any further information. All available capacities are taken into account in the context of security of supply monitoring. The preliminary draft law amending the law on the organisation of the electricity market, which will shortly be submitted to the House, provides, in accordance with the recommendations of the European Commission, that the volume may, under certain conditions, be reviewed by 1 September at the latest. It goes without saying that Elia will be asked for a new estimate of the needs. Nothing will a priori prevent returning power plants from participating in the capacity compensation mechanism. A security of supply monitoring will be carried out as part of the monitoring of the implementation of the pact. A review of the need for new power plants will certainly be one of the measures taken. Moreover, the preliminary draft which I have mentioned provides, by 30 June of each biennium, that the network operator should carry out an analysis of the needs of the Belgian electricity system in terms of the country's adequacy and flexibility over a ten-year period. To date, the minimum need for new capacity remains estimated at 3.6 gigawatts from 2025. The need for new capacity in view of the return to the market of certain power plants will be regularly updated by the TSO. Of course, this will also depend on the fact that some plants will be able to be renovated with a view to changing their capacity or increasing the efficiency of the plants. This will also be taken into account in determining the need for new power plants. Information on the plans to extend the Vilvorde plant was sent by mail to my administration in the course of April. A meeting was requested from my administration by the operators of the plant. I'm waiting for her to return.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u61	Madam Minister, I want to be sure that I understand correctly: the figure of 3.6 was set at the time of the pact, before the change concerning Seraing, which dates from 29 March, and before that of Vilvorde.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u62	That's exactly what it is. I would add that this need will depend on facts concerning certain power plants. There will be an evaluation in June, in time, with a ten-year view. In ten years, I don't have to explain to you that we will be beyond 2025.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u63	Of course. That's interesting. At the time of the pact, you announced that for you, you had to create fewer gas-fired power plants than Elia had imagined. Elia was talking about 7 or 8, and you were talking about 4. The figure of 4 appeared before the announcement that Seraing and Vilvorde would return to the game. It's interesting because it may still reduce your figure by 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u64	No. Your reasoning is not correct because, even if power plants are in the strategic reserve, as you know, since we made some decisions, they can enter and exit it more easily. That's what they do. From the moment they return to the market, a revaluation shall take place. On the other hand, when gas-fired power plants in our territory were assessed, they were assessed in their current existence, regardless of whether they were part of the strategic or other reserve and their ability to generate electricity or to be rejuvenated to do so. The Seraing power plant is also quite efficient. It is clear that it is fully able to participate in the creation of electricity in the context of the energy transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u65	I agree with everything you said. According to your information, 3.6 already takes into account the possibility offered by Seraing and that offered by Vilvorde. On the other hand, if I have followed your reasoning correctly, it does not take into account the possible extension of the capacity to Vilvorde since it takes the existing one, the 500 that are already in the strategic reserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u66	I have to check this out because I remember a picture that I don't have here, taking over the screening of the power plants in a position to re-power to allow them to be more efficient not only in time but also in terms of their efficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u67	Mr President, may I ask the minister to send us a written supplement on this table so that we can see what was included in the calculation and what was not included in the extension of Vilvorde in order to be clear about its inclusion in the calculation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u68	I prefer that we proceed in this way because I do not have the details here. It will be clearer and error-free.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u69	Minister, what are your intentions in terms of building new offshore parks beyond what is already committed or planned? Will the government define new areas for the construction of new parks? If so, do you confirm that this is still to be done in April 2018? My question is a little dated. What is your ambition in this area? Do you confirm that you will use a tendering system for these future parks? That seems to be the logic you've entered, but I'd rather have a confirmation. Do you confirm that a vision note is expected by July 20, 2018 at the latest? Do you confirm that a draft bill must be submitted before the end of the legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u70	Mr President, I clearly intend to continue to allow the development of offshore energies, and of course wind energy. There are several advantages to this:- the remoteness of the inhabitants and therefore the lower impact of directly felt nuisances; - the possibility of placing very large wind turbines with lower constraints; - the wind potential of our coastline; - the fact that this technology is now mature, with some amortised equipment that can be reused, with technical and human potential present. The Belgian Inter-federal Energy Pact foresees that a total of 4 gigawatts of offshore wind will be installed by 2030, according to the administration's estimates, an increase of about 1.7 to 1.8 megawatts of installed capacity beyond what is currently planned for 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u71	Megawatts or gigawatts?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u72	Yes, 1,700 megawatts or 1.7 gigawatts. Thank you for that clarification. It will be necessary to effectively identify the precisely desired objectives: to maximize installed capacity or to maximize the productivity, or to minimize cost and many other optimizations. It should be noted that technology will continue to evolve in ten years' time. I am counting on this development as well as on the experience gained. These choices are not made and these points still need to be studied: the design of the zones, the density of the installations, the technologies used. The plan for the development of marine areas, for the Belgian part of the North Sea, falls within the competence of the Secretary of State for the North Sea. For details, the specific questions should be asked. However, he informed me that he was busy revising this plan. Since the question was tabled, progress has been made. The proposed new development plan for these spaces provides for an additional 221 km2 to establish new energy parks. It is clear that I would like it to be more, but it is this plan that adjusts the various demands and uses, such as fishing zone, energy development zone, maritime corridor, Natura 2000 conservation zone, sand mining, etc. These spaces are desired for the Belgian part of the North Sea and it is my colleague's task to achieve a balanced plan, which he has done. The proposed zoning may still evolve before the final adoption of the plan. It is a first project to achieve the offshore objective mentioned in the Belgian Interfederal Energy Pact. This plan will be implemented for the period 2020-2026. For more details, I suggest that you address my colleague. Furthermore, on 27 October 2017, the Council of Ministers decided that, in view of the developments in the European market for the possible construction of new wind farms after 2020 - with significantly lower costs, mature technology, amortised infrastructure and higher efficiency - the government will adapt the framework so as not to use the current system of granting state-of-the-art concessions, but to a system allowing more competition between players, for example through a tendering mechanism. This will further limit consumer support. A working group has been set up to explore the various possibilities for the implementation of a tendering mechanism. This working group launched at the end of March 2018 consists of the following bodies: my colleague's office, my own cabinet, DG Energy, the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission (CREG), DG Environment and Marine Environment and the North Sea Mathematical Model Management Unit, as well as Elia for connection issues. A concept note is being developed and is expected to be finalized in the summer of 2018. Without prejudging its outcome, it could lead to proposing implementations of these principles in a proposed regulatory or legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u73	Madam Minister, thank you. I do ask your colleague in parallel, but I think it is important to ask both of you. I am asking you in the context of your expertise in the field of energy, particularly in connection with the Energy Pact, and I would like to join you when you highlight all the advantages of offshore wind, in particular the slightest "disturbance" in relation to the onshore wind, even if we cannot do without the onshore wind to achieve the objectives we assign ourselves. I think you're right. I'd add another advantage. It is the load rate that is much higher on the offshore. We're over 40% compared to the onshore. So I can only join you. Besides, I want to encourage you to go a step further because all your reasoning is for the Belgian economic zone but is also to be imagined in partnership with your European colleagues, especially Britain...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u74	(...) I agree. There are international developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u75	There is the Belgian economic zone. There is that of Germany, Great Britain, etc. But there is everything between these economic zones which could also be exploited in partnership, but which is currently not taken into account. This is normal because we are not yet anywhere in the realization. This is the same technology that can be used a few hundred metres away or one or two kilometres further outside Belgian territory. Only, in a beautiful European project, to see pan-European with Britain withdrawing from Europe, there is a way to make it something that is a very useful productible with the same advantages as those you have cited while widening it by a few kilometres.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u76	This is the North Seas Countries' Offshore Grid Initiative (NSCOGI), for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u77	Probably. I'm going to ask because I'm not well informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u78	Minister, an Energy Pact Follow-up Committee will be set up. What is his mission? Does the extension of nuclear power stations remain an option for use by the Monitoring and Monitoring Committee? What is his power? On the radio, you were talking about a purely advisory role. Do you confirm that? What is its composition? Who will preside over him? We are talking about the presence of employers and industry. Which employers are these? What about workers and environmental associations? Which industries are these? Are they industries that consume or produce energy? What will be the place of those who produce exclusively renewable energy? What are its operating procedures and schedule of work? Will this committee be included in the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u79	Minister, in the federal energy strategy released by the government on March 30, there is a reference to a federal energy committee that will be composed of representatives from federal governments, Regions, employers and industries. However, I do not read any additional clarification, so I would like you to be able to enlighten us. Will it be formalized by a legal or regulatory provision? When will it be put in place? What will his exact role be? Can you specify its composition? How will members be appointed? Why include only representatives of employers and industries and not all of the stakeholders? I am thinking, for example, of network operators, social partners and small local renewable energy producers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u80	Members of Parliament, on 30 March, the federal government approved the Energy Pact, which my three regional colleagues and I negotiated and finalized at the end of 2017. In addition, it was decided to include in the governance structure a complementary monitoring aimed at four objectives, knowing that there was already a monitoring formula in our vision as developed in this Pact. This complementary monitoring, which is federal and which brings, within the framework of the federal energy strategy, specific conditions to the federal government, has four objectives. The first is to see the impact of the energy vision on the climate by being helped by an external body that is the CNC. The second is to see the impact on the evolution of energy prices and tariffs by being assisted by the association of regulators, FORBEG. The third is to see the impact on security of supply by being assisted by Elia, CREG and DG Energy. The fourth is to see the safety of nuclear facilities, by being assisted by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. A Federal Energy Committee is therefore set up to ensure the achievement of these four objectives. It is composed of representatives from the federal government, Regions, employers and industry. Each year, the working group reports on progress – on what is actually achieved – and on the prospects for two, five and ten years in terms of the progress made and to be made within the framework of the energy strategy. The group may seek the opinion of certain experts or other institutions or actors in the energy sector, of any storeholder it considers necessary to consult. The choice of monitoring, to the extent possible with the collaboration of consultative bodies and federations with broad membership, was made in order to coordinate the opinions of several institutions and stakeholders. When a problem is detected, the group will make recommendations on its own initiative or at the request of the Minister within the jurisdiction of the federal government, as it is a monitoring for exclusively federal jurisdictions. Where appropriate, all necessary and potential corrective measures will be taken by the federal government. To be quite precise, this means, therefore, that the Monitoring Committee has competence to give its opinion, but that the Government, in complete independence, takes the corrections it considers necessary to take without having to be bound by the opinion delivered by that Committee. At present, we are examining, in consultation with the stakeholders concerned, how the operation of this Federal Energy Committee will be organised. After that, this operation will be legally anchored in a text. So for the moment, I am not in a position to answer you exactly about the quality of employers. I have a slightly more precise answer to a question that will be asked earlier. Perhaps we could find it and link the answer to this question, or then, by following the agenda, we will do so and you will see that there will be further clarification. As far as the last carat of precision is concerned, we will still have to wait because what we want is to have a committee that is non-plethoric and effective and that can be documented in order to make the required report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u81	I have two problems with your answer, Madam Minister. First of all, on the composition of the organ, I agree with your objective of a non-plethoric and effective structure, but I add another one: balanced. But here, in your answer, you give a composition that includes only employers, not workers, or environmental and other associations. There, I think that the look that will emerge from this committee will be partial and partial. So it's not good to enlighten the government. I note that this is an advisory body. I note that she herself can surround herself with other opinions, but I consider that the unbalanced composition has a bias from the beginning. Therefore, I ask you to remedy this. In this way, when you present us with the legal anchor, we will not be obliged to table amendments. The original text, prepared by the government, will have to submit a balanced proposal, while remaining – and I agree with you – effective and succinct. My second problem is that you absolutely did not answer my next question, which was clear. I would like to reiterate that the extension of nuclear power stations is still an option that the monitoring committee can use.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u82	The reason is that the answers were sequenced. One of them, which relates in part to your question, was addressed in particular to Mr de Lamotte. For the rest, as far as the representation of employers and industry is concerned, I will propose to the government the name of the FEB. As for the chairmanship of the monitoring committee, it will be appointed after it has been discussed in the government. I understand your request, which was also expressed to me this morning by a representative of the employees on the Advisory Board of the CREG. So I'll record it and report it during our work. To answer your question about the extension of nuclear power plants, it is important that I repeat myself. I guess I'll still have the chance. The federal government approved the Energy Pact, as well as the release of nuclear power was expressly confirmed. I quote myself: "I and my colleagues in the federal government are convinced that the additional measures will enable us to meet the nuclear exit agenda". That is what I said when I introduced the federal government's adoption of the energy vision of energy ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u83	Minister, if I understand you correctly, I assume you can confirm that the extension is not an option that the monitoring committee can use.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u84	No. These are words, and so we will never agree on semantic formulation! I do not have to prejudge what a monitoring committee will say, which will work in a scientific and documented way with a request for reporting on progress and prospects at 2 years, 5 years and 10 years. In any case, it does not bind the government. It is committed to the energy vision of the four ministers, which is very clear, which you have supported, on the one hand, and which has been adopted, on the other. Let me point out, however, that in a few weeks we have been working hard to achieve a federal energy transition strategy that embraces and adopts the energy vision of the four energy ministers. In both documents, it is repeated and confirmed that we will leave nuclear power in 2025. That's it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u85	Mr Nollet, I give you the floor for a final reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u86	Minister, I agree, but you are going to propose a bill that will allow a committee that you are going to establish to work on an option that is the extension of nuclear power. And now I don't understand! You must permanently close this door, including in the law, when you propose it to us here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u87	Mr President, I already take note of the Minister's response and of the exchange between her and my colleague. Madam Minister, you have understood that we want this advisory committee to be open to other representatives as well as those who are actually planned at first, and that there are requests, particularly from the social partners or other stakeholders – I am thinking of the small renewable energy producers, who are applicants. I wish you had answered the following questions. You said you would produce a text at some point. In the timetable for the implementation of everything decided on 30 March, is there a date for this monitoring committee? Several dates are planned. What about that specific point? Can we expect to receive a text from you within the next few days or weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u88	I can't remember exactly the date. I'll let you know later. We are working on this and we hope to reach a proposal in the coming weeks. I have a very busy timetable until 21 July with regard to all the elements that we have introduced and which bear the name of "federal energy strategy". This strategy had the virtue of adopting the energy vision of the four energy ministers. The most distant event of the calendar concerns the constitution of a reflection on a trending for the offshore in the North Sea for the period 2021-2026. All other concrete policies, except burden sharing 2021-2030, must be implemented in the coming weeks, before 21 July.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u89	Madam Minister, thank you for that clarification. I stress, however, that the questions asked are obviously questions on which we will insist during the debate on the texts you are going to submit to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u90	Mr President, Madam Minister, La Libre Belgique has come back, in an article of 4 April, on the problem of nuclear supplies. The daily reports that the Nuclear Supplies Commission has sent you a draft bill aimed at ensuring the availability of nuclear supplies. According to La Libre, Electrabel is not satisfied with these changes under discussion. Isabelle Kocher, the CEO of ENGIE, had recently met with the Prime Minister on this subject. Other newspapers have since seized the subject. What we are concerned about is that the various articles published show that the provisions would be totally in danger. Minister, what are the legislative amendments proposed by the Nuclear Supplies Commission? What do you think of these proposed amendments? Are you in favour of establishing controls and guarantees for loans given by SYNATOM to Electrabel? Are you in favour of the fact that the Commission for Nuclear Supplies is informed in advance of any change in the shareholding of Electrabel? Finally, are you in favour of giving the Commission the power to order SYNATOM? What are ENGIE-Electrabel's arguments? What was the content of the meeting between Ms. Kocher and the Prime Minister? Minister, we look forward to the bill containing these amendments. This Parliament has already taken initiatives in this area, but has not gone far enough. It is important for the future of the country that these nuclear supplies can be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u91	Minister, on April 25, I was asking you about the draft bill to consolidate the legal framework for the nuclear provisions that you have just received from the CNP. You told me that you had just begun the examination and that we would probably move on to a draft bill. I guess almost a month later, your exam is over. Finally, I would like to discuss with you the substance of the CNP's proposals. Are you in favour of the following proposals made by the NPC? 1. Establishment of new guarantees for each loan granted by SYNATOM and Electrabel. 2. Obligation to inform the CPN prior to any change in the ownership of Electrabel. 3. Grant of a negative and positive power of injunction from the CPN on SYNATOM. 4. Abolition of the suspensive nature of SYNATOM's appeals against the decisions of the CNP. 5. Obligation to transmit quarterly reports on the use of money lent by SYNATOM to Electrabel. Is there any other proposal in the NPC's draft than the five I have just mentioned? If so, which ones? In your response, you informed us that the operator had provided you with comments and observations on the NPC's suggestions. Let me add three questions. Has the NPC already provided an opinion on these proposals from the operator? What are the comments made by the operator? In addition, have you conducted an external legal analysis with a law firm of these various proposals from the CPN and/or from the operators?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u92	Minister, the newspaper L'Echo of 17 May highlighted the fact that the French giant ENGIE had raised 1.641 billion euros last year from the reserves of its Belgian subsidiary Electrabel. This is indeed reflected in ENGIE's 2017 reference document, which also includes its financial report. On page 200, he states that the strong increase in the company's profit and loss comes from the dividend received from the subsidiaries and mainly from Electrabel, which paid a dividend of 1,641 billion euros in the form of a contribution from the securities of Electrabel France and Gaz Réseau Distribution France. In this context of exit from nuclear power and uncertainty about the cost of decommissioning power plants and waste management, this information gives rise to a legitimate emotion and calls for great vigilance. ENGIE denied that the purpose of the transaction was to organise the insolvency of its Belgian subsidiary and justified this recovery of assets within the group by the need to manage renewable electricity production activities in a more coherent manner. Minister, had the government been informed in advance of this operation? How do you analyze this one? Does the argument that it is a matter of rationalising the management and production of renewable electricity seem to you to be consistent? I asked you a few weeks ago about the availability of nuclear supplies and ENGIE's financial liability for them. You answered that the question was broader and more complex than that. Know that I am well aware of this. However, today I think I can speak to you on behalf of all the citizens by asking you this specific question. Legally, to what extent is ENGIE required to ensure the costs of decommissioning plants and future nuclear waste management in the event of insufficient provisions available in SYNATOM and possible lack of solvency in Electrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u93	First of all, ladies and gentlemen, as an introduction, I would like to say that this question partly overlaps with another question already raised several times and concerns the recent shift in assets from Electrabel to ENGIE. We discussed this, Mr Nollet, at last Thursday's plenary session. It always revolves around the same questions. Indeed, the essence of the case is whether there will be enough nuclear supplies at the appropriate time and for the necessary time. I have already had the opportunity to speak to you on this subject as early as 7 March in the Committee on the Economy, in the context of my answers to questions Nos 23166, 23687 and 23706 by MM. of Lamotte and Nollet. It was therefore long before 4 April and the publication of the press article to which you refer, which fundamentally does not change much about the reality to which we referred in the exchanges of questions and answers which I have just quoted. I have already indicated to you that I have received the opinion of the Committee on Nuclear Supplies concerning a proposal to amend the Act of 11 April 2003 to consolidate or improve the legal framework. I quote: "With a view to ensuring even better the existence, sufficiency and availability of provisions to cover all the costs of dismantling nuclear power plants and managing spent fuel, in 2017 and early 2018 the Commission on Nuclear Supplies drew up a proposal, as I had hoped, to amend the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions for dismantling nuclear power plants and managing irradiated fissile material in these plants. This committee has recently transmitted its conclusions to me, which I have just begun to examine. After that, I will of course report back to the government which will decide on the direction to be taken by the analysis and content of the proposal made to me by the Nuclear Supplies Commission. This is likely to turn into a bill that I will have the opportunity to discuss with you when the government has made its review and made a decision, and this bill is obviously sent, in the meantime, to the Council of State." So, after the passage to the Council of State, there will eventually be a second reading which, once it has been screened by the government, will allow the tabling and debate on this draft in Parliament. This opinion of the Commission on Nuclear Supplies aims – as you know, I have repeated on several occasions – to strengthen the existing legal framework for the advice and control of the existence, sufficiency and availability of provisions. The Commission informed me that the operator had provided him with its comments and observations on the work of the CPN. As far as I am concerned, I repeat for the umpteenth time that I am obviously in favour of the Belgian State taking the various appropriate measures, in particular by improving the legal framework in order to ensure adequate financial resources. As I have told you, I intend to report back to the government that will decide the direction of the analysis and content of the NPC proposal that I cannot discuss now, but that I will discuss with you when the government takes a position, as it should. With regard to your questions about a meeting between Mrs Kocher and the Prime Minister, I have already had the opportunity to answer this question, but I am still doing so, and I can only point out that the Prime Minister meets with a lot of actors, especially in the discussions on the energy pact and during these contacts, many issues are being discussed. I am in close contact with the Prime Minister and our line is still basically the same and it will not change: affordable energy that meets our climate commitments with a guarantee in terms of security of supply. In this context, I repeat, neither Electrabel nor ENGIE dictate their policy to the Belgian federal government. This answer is linked to another one which I am referring to Question No 25529 put by Mr Nollet, and my answer is as follows: "I have already answered this question both in committee on 25 April and on 17 May in plenary, I have indeed received the opinion of the Committee on Nuclear Supplies on a proposal for an amendment. This opinion is under consideration in my office. The exam's not over. The file will soon follow its usual path: working group preparing the government's work, followed by its passage before the government, the Council of State, and again before the government and then before Parliament. We will very soon have the pleasure of discussing it in Parliament. But accept that I reserve the earliest opportunity for these exchanges to my colleagues in the federal government. Mr President, there are, in connection with what is said, questions Nos 25581 and 25582 which concern the plan referred to in the press on 18 May and concern assets for 1.6 billion transferred from Electrabel to ENGIE, on which I have already had the opportunity to speak in plenary last week, but which deal with the consequence seen as logical by those who ask me this question and which is the sufficiency of nuclear supply for the dismantling of power plants. I wanted to say that because this is the second or third time that we have dealt with this very important and complex subject, but on which I will not say a word until the government has taken a position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u94	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that we have learned nothing more today with regard to the questions that have already been put to you by our colleagues, except that there is an urgent need, Madam Minister! It is simply urgent, because indeed the press articles are worrying about the transfers from Electrabel to ENGIE. It is the future of our state that is at stake. The dismantling of our power plants will cost us a great deal and it is out of the question that it is the citizen who, after having already paid six times the depreciation of nuclear power plants, will have to pay tomorrow for the dismantling of the plants when the state has planned exactly the opposite! Especially since we know how much Electrabel was for years the "milk cow" of the mother house. I hear you're analyzing it. But a month later, when a Commission on Nuclear Supplies is here to show you the way forward, since they are the first experts and everything they put on the table seems to me to be only common sense for the State to have sufficient guarantees! However, when common sense does not go directly to the government and the government needs to have months to analyze this issue, it means that there is a blockage somewhere. Hence, no doubt, Mrs. Kocher's presence in the Prime Minister's office. We are almost convinced of that! What I am asking you, Madam Minister, is that before July 21st, there should be a final vote on a bill to strengthen the State's safeguards in terms of nuclear supplies and the dismantling of our power plants. In fact, I believe that this case is lagging behind and is obviously very badly embroiled in relation to the lobbying that is done by ENGIE today, and tomorrow by France itself, I imagine.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u95	Madam Minister, you will not have long to say that you agree on the need to strengthen the legislative framework. Since 2011, ONDRAF has said that it must be done. You weren't the minister they already said. As soon as you arrived, they said it again, in 2014. It was Wathelet and Magnette, as my colleague Kristof Calvo reminds me, who is much older than me. You say today that you are still in favour of a strengthened legal framework, without even having the courage to take a stand on the five small proposals I have put forward. It says a lot about the fact that you are, in this file, feet and fists tied. Otherwise, I know you well enough; you do not miss the opportunity to react positively or negatively to certain suggestions made to you. Here you practice total silence throughout the line. Nevertheless, although I do not have a question on the substance at the moment, since you prefer not to say anything and you are tied feet and fists, I still have a question to ask you about the form. You did not answer my question, which was to know, beyond the fact that the producers had returned their own counter-proposal, as you said, if you had a legal analysis carried out. Some are talking about an opinion from a law firm on the matter. Do you confirm it or deny it, not to mention the content?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u96	I don't understand. An analysis of what?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u97	A legal analysis of the various proposals that have been formulated; the press speaks of a legal opinion of the firm Stibbe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u98	Stibbe works for the CPN. He was commissioned by the CPN. You are making the interventions you feel you have to make, and that is entirely legitimate, but I would remind you that it was I who asked the CNP to draw up this proposal. You seem not to be talking about it and not remembering it, but I asked for it. The CPN, in order to carry out this work, mandated the firm Stibbe for this project. This project is in my hands and we will make it follow the usual path: working group and government, as it should be.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u99	So Stibbe also analyzed the operator's counter-proposals?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u100	I don't know, but I can ask the CPN the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u101	We will have the answer here from the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u102	I find that the answers are still a little blurred in relation to a timetable that is clear. Minister, you have announced that your legislative calendar will be compressed until July 21. We don't advance in the answers either. I'm a little confused by the fact that I haven't received an answer to the 1.6 billion that went up from Electrabel to...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u103	If you don't mind, Mr. de Lamotte, I said so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u104	I asked that question and I have to wait for an answer that will come!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u105	No, I'll give it to you now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u106	I would like the answer to that question!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u107	This answer is linked to questions that are asked below. Questions are gathered on topics that are joint but are, in part, different.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u108	Can't we get my question back on track in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u109	Question Nos 25581 and 25582 by Mr Nollet and Mr Wollants, who is not here at the moment, concern themselves with this 1.6 billion. I talked about it earlier. I would now like to respond if the President so requests.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u110	It is written in my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u111	To solve the problem, can't I ask my question about $1.6 billion?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u112	I'd like to, since we've already changed the agenda earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u113	We are in reply to Mr de Lamotte on question 25569. We can approach them in the process, if you wish. We will first close item 22 and the end of your reply, Mr de Lamotte, and then turn to questions 25581 and 25582.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u114	That's fine with me. I would like the answer to the question I asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u115	If we have the agreement of all the colleagues here, and in particular Mr Calvo, who will have to wait five more minutes, then we are dealing with Mr Nollet's question 25581.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u116	Minister, L'Echo of 18 May announces to us that there is a much more ambitious plan than the already pointed count of 1.6 billion euros and that ENGIE's will is no more or less to get rid of the "risk" Electrabel. In concrete terms, Electrabel would be emptied of its international assets, or even of renewable electricity production; what to do with Electrabel is something that looks furiously like a bad bank. What is your analysis of this plan? The same newspaper claims that the French presented their plan to you and to the Prime Minister. How are your contacts about this? Moreover, on the very day of ENGIE's general meeting, ENGIE confirmed the information, since it announced that it was continuing discussions on the subject with the Belgian State. The Echoprecis itself that a precise timetable had been devised by ENGIE and provided for a few weeks' negotiation, as well as a ratification of the new agreement by the Belgian Government in May. What about it, as we come to the end of May? Do you confirm that ENGIE has submitted to you a proposal to revise the tripartite agreement concluded in 2004 between the Belgian State, SYNATOM and Electrabel so that it becomes quadripartite and that, in this context, ENGIE gives its guarantee on the only existing provisions, since Electrabel is responsible for paying any surplus that would be required? Have you clearly refused what appears to be a flight from the mother house in front of her responsibilities? What do you think, in order to counter these initiatives, of the proposal to introduce a cascading accountability mechanism, providing that in the event of a failure of Electrabel, it is automatically the ENGIE parent company that has to compensate for the commitments and responsibilities, in particular in terms of refinancing of the nuclear waste disposal and management provisions fund? Is it not appropriate, moreover, to outsource urgently the more than EUR 10 billion currently housed in a subsidiary of Electrabel, which will be used for the dismantling of power plants and for the management of nuclear waste? What do you think of the imposition of a payment on a frozen account at the National Bank?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, since I am going to reply to Mr de Lamotte at the same time...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u118	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u119	What an exceptional transitivity! In an article on July 7, 2017, published in the same newspaper as the one you quote, Mr.Nollet, the same journalist referred to the Bianca project. Anyway, there's nothing new under the sun. Several projects have followed each other, whether they are similar or not. In any case, for the time being, nothing concrete has been decided. Everyone knows that ENGIE has begun a restructuring of its activities at the global level and that Electrabel does not escape this reflection. Since the Belgian State is not a shareholder, it does not have to oppose an evolution in the head of an independent company. However, given the peculiarity of Electrabel in the Belgian energy landscape, since it exploits the bulk of the Belgian nuclear fleet, which accounts for more than 50% of the country's electricity supply, the government is observing this change with the utmost attention. The Prime Minister and I felt that the draft plan proposed by ENGIE was unacceptable, especially since Electrabel is responsible for providing for the costs of dismantling nuclear power plants and managing the downstream of fuel. In this regard, I would like to remind you that my action with the help of the Nuclear Provisions Commission (NPC) since 2014 has increased the amount of provisions by more than 3 billion, from 7.6 billion to more than 11 billion at the end of this year. That is the answer I gave you in plenary last week. Contacts with ENGIE, as with other players in the sector, are regular, and will probably continue with ENGIE's new management, as you have seen. In any event, we will ensure that ENGIE continues to assume its responsibilities, particularly with regard to dismantling. It is in this context that I will shortly table a proposal on the government table to strengthen the powers of the NPC. With regard to your proposal to outsource the ten billion currently provided by Electrabel and the imposition of a payment on a frozen account at the BNB, you will allow me to wait for the government's decision. As regards the role of SYNATOM, there is also a connection with the following questions. This topic comes from different angles depending on the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u120	There are always possible links between the questions. Work is done with the secretariat and your firm to reach them. This work must be done upstream. It is upstream that we can ask ourselves whether to join or not. From the moment the agenda is made,...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u121	Mr President, I am trying to rationalize as best I can. No problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u122	Madam Minister, I'll join you. What ENGIE has put on the table is unacceptable. These are your terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u123	Well, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u124	For once, we can be happy to join.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u125	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u126	I'll meet you without any distance. This is unacceptable. I go further by making two proposals. You're reacting to one of the two, the one that aims to outsource by saying we'll see what the government is doing. My question is what the minister is proposing. It is nevertheless extremely important that you give the impetus as Minister of Energy, in the face of the dangers that you rightly point out and that are enormous (€10 billion). We have to imagine what it would be for the state budget if he had to cover that. Or, Madam Minister, we must see once again that you have been dispossessed of a file. I need to know what you think and what your proposal is. I know very well that the government must deliberate. But if you want to give the impetus, let us know your position on the subject. Do you defend this outsourcing? The idea isn't from me. The part relating to the National Bank, yes. But the idea comes from ONDRAF, which, in an official report, has been proposing outsourcing for some time now. Minister, will you accept this recommendation, yes or no? That's my first question I don't have an answer to. The second question I do not have an answer to is that of cascading accountability, which is complementary to the idea of depositing ten billion or more into a National Bank account. What do you think of this proposal as a minister of energy? You didn't even mention the fact that it could be the government that is thinking about it. Do you take on board this cascading accountability proposal that obviously affects the ENGIE parent company, whatever happens to the structure and assets of Electrabel? This issue was raised by my colleague. Minister, I would like you to be able to respond now to these two points. As Minister of Energy, do you propose this to the government, yes or no? After that, we will see what the government is doing with it. Are you fighting at least in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u127	Thank you very much. I consider the incident to be closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u128	Mr. Chairman, the minister must at least react.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u129	Mr Nollet, question-answer-replict. That was your line.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u130	Mr President, I would like to be able to speak in this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u131	Mr Calvo, you are not concerned. If you don't mind, I'm not answering to you. We need to know what we want, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u132	For me the reply is made, it's not an endless conversation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u133	Minister, it's not because you're stuck that you don't have to answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u134	Mr President, I am not going to enter into a political-political game.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u135	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a personal fact!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u136	You don't have the floor, Mr. Calvo. I'm the president. It's a question of Mr. Nollet. There's an answer and a reply. If in the answer, a question has not been addressed, if there remains a problem of number or technique... we are not at the Café du Commerce!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u137	Mr President, I have identified two unanswered questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u138	Mr. President, I'm not entitled to a reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u139	You were not one of the speakers on item 31 of the agenda. If there are problems in setting the agenda between the secretariat and the minister's office, that is where the issues need to be resolved. It is sometimes questionable and subjective. We must follow the agenda set. Mr. Nollet just gave his reply. The point's over. It's not about playing!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u140	Mr President, I have two unanswered questions. It's about having important answers, it's not about playing. It was the woman who was worth ten billion!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u141	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u142	We are not part of a general discussion. These are oral questions. We're not at the Café du Commerce either!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u143	Mr. President, Madam Minister, before May 31, the government will have to select the projects that will be funded by the Energy Transition Fund. It's in eight days. However, we learned via La Libre Belgique on Saturday 5 May that of 27 projects submitted, 17 were considered admissible. However, since the EUR 30 million available in the Fund is not sufficient to finance all of them, only the first 14 will be retained. Of the 17 projects mentioned above, only two came from Francophone actors. As these have been classified 15th and 17th by your administration, they will not receive funding from the Fund at the present time. Minister, I would like you to provide us with more information about this. Of all the projects originally submitted, how many came from Francophone actors? What types of energy are eligible for funding? What were the selection criteria? Do you agree with the selection made by your administration? Otherwise, what is your attitude? I would like to add a question in relation to proposals from nuclear energy actors on actions that did not concern the production of nuclear energy as such. Do you have any opinion on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u144	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, during our exchange on April 25, you informed us that 28 projects had been submitted following the appeal and that 25 of them could be retained. You also confirmed the existence of an axis 2 on nuclear energy, in total opposition to the commitments you had previously made in Parliament. Minister, how many projects have been tabled (and retained) on axis 2 "nuclear energy"? Have you received an analysis of all the projects? What does this analysis say about the projects in Axis 2? What about other projects? Do you confirm the information of La Libre Belgique, that there would be no French-language project? Have you ever submitted your proposal to the government? If not, when do you intend to do it? If so, what does it understand with regard to axis 2? Once again, La Libre Belgique, a well-informed newspaper, reports that a €6 million project for the nuclear sector would be among the selected projects. Do you confirm that? What schedule are you considering for a final decision within the government? Will you respect what you committed yourself to doing when you were questioned in Parliament by my colleague Mr Calvo and myself about the content and guidelines of the subsidies that would be issued by this Energy Transition Fund?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u145	Mr Calvo, I haven't read your book yet. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u146	Mr. President, I'll translate it for you. One of the proposals in my book concerns an Energy Transition Fund. Madam Secretary, the Energy Transition Fund has been operational for some time. A number of questions have been asked about the use. Can you give an overview of the use of the Energy Transition Fund? Which projects were approved? Which ones were rejected? Now that it has been in place for some time now, can you give an insight into the adjustments you intend to make to the functioning of the Energy Transition Fund? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u147	Mr President, Members, first of all, among the 25 project proposals introduced on February 28, 2018, are four proposals whose candidates filled out the French-language participation form (in response to Mr de Lamotte's question) and some project proposals jointly introduced by several candidates, both Dutch-speaking and French-speaking or bilingual. It's pretty much shared. In the December 2017 proposal, the powers of the Federal State, in the context of the energy transition, are represented and divided into three thematic axes which, together with the four activities, determine the scope of the Fund: renewable energy sources in the Belgian exclusive economic zone in the North Sea and biofuels; nuclear energy, security of supply and balance of the transport network. For each of these three axes, several project proposals have been introduced. The Council of Ministers will decide, in principle by 31 May 2018 at the latest, on project proposals that will be eligible for funding under this Fund. As regards Chapter 3 of the call for proposals launched in December 2017, some of these criteria are included in the Royal Decree of 9 May 2017 laying down the procedures for the use of the Transition Fund and some of the Commission Regulation 651/2014 of 17 June 2014 declaring certain categories of aid compatible with the internal market pursuant to Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty. In the Royal Decree of 8 May 2017 laying down the procedures for the use of the Fund, Article 3 § 6 states that "by 30 April of each year, with the exception of 2017, the Directorate-General for Energy shall deliver its opinion on the granting of aid for each project and shall transmit to the Minister a list of projects on the basis of 1. Assessment if and to what extent the selection criteria are met. 2. Assessment if and to what extent the award criteria are met." As regards axis 2, eight dossiers were introduced during the call for proposals in 2018 under the Energy Transition Fund. As provided for in the Royal Decree of 9 May 2017, more specifically Article 3(6) thereof, the Directorate-General for Energy gives its opinion on the granting of aid for each project and forwards to the Minister a list of projects. The assessment and notice were sent on April 27, 2018. The opinion in accordance with the Royal Decree gives an idea of all the projects and therefore not by axis. All projects are treated equally. In accordance with the Royal Decree of 9 May 2017 and its Article 3, § 6, it is decided not later than 31 May of each year, with the exception of 2017 as I said. With regard to this year, it is my intention, of course, to ensure that the government takes a position within the time limit, which means that in the coming days the government will have an opportunity to make its decision. Mr Calvo, at present my administration has evaluated 25 projects. No projects were approved or rejected. An evaluation of the 25 projects and an opinion were sent to me, as I said, on 27 April. The notice shall indicate whether a project meets the selection and award criteria and to what extent. It is on the basis of this discussion paper that I make a proposal to the government. It will soon be on the table of the Council of Ministers. With regard to your second question, in view of this year's results, which show that the quality of the projects has apparently been better presented and assessed than last year, the operation of the Fund should not be adapted to the level of the law or the implementing order for the time being. Perhaps, however, some adjustments could be considered in terms of the call for proposals and the manner in which it is formulated.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u148	Madam Minister, I take note of your answers and of the number of projects - I will let my colleague speak on axis 2 - which pose a number of problems in terms of the energy transition. Will we be informed of how these projects were selected? Finally, Madam Minister, did you not tell me if you approved the selection made by your administration? Will you submit the proposals selected by DG Energy to the government as they stand?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u149	Madam Minister, you are obviously playing with words. Of course, four French-language projects were submitted, but the newspaper tells us that none of the 14 projects selected were selected. It's not the same thing. My colleague's question, to which you have not answered, is naturally relevant. You tell him he'll have to wait until the end of the month to be informed. At least it's an inquisitive thing. Then I know that my colleague Gilkinet would have wished to witness this reply... but, I see he came. Minister, your commitments - both in committee and in plenary - are very clear. I quote verbatim: "The minister denies that these means will be used to encourage and support nuclear energy" It was in committee. In plenary, you said: "It is not about using, as some have supported" – and you were aiming at my colleague Calvo, very active in this debate – "the Fund's means to encourage nuclear energy. Let's be clear!" Today, 8 out of 25 cases, including one of 6 million, submitted by CEN, – you have not denied it – concern the nuclear sector. So there is a flagrant non-compliance with the commitments you have made in Parliament. I expect you, on 31 May, when your government makes its final decision, to return to the commitments you made in Parliament. Otherwise, a problem will not fail to arise. In any case, I know my colleague, Georges Gilkinet, enough to know that he will insist that Mr Calvo and I reintervene on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u150	Mr Nollet, your reply will be recorded in the report. Mr. Gilkinet is a witness to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u151	Mr. Nollet always has a special treatment that he induces himself. He knows that, by the way. This is part of his many qualities. I am therefore learning, at the turn of his sentences, that Mr Gilkinet is squeaking the whole question. I find there a Mr Gilkinet whom I have known well in various committees. Having said that, Mr Nollet, you know – I will repeat it to you again and again. And we will do together the analysis, the gloss of what I said in your opinion and in my opinion – that we were talking, at the time, about storage. You will recall that, as part of the 20 million fee which was the counterpart of the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, we were discussing a Transition Fund which would be dedicated to storage and innovative energy production. It was at that time that you asked me – I remember very well that you both asked me this question – if I would give ENGIE money to develop the third storage tank in Coo.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u152	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u153	Yes. But we'll find all this, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u154	Here I have an excerpt from the June 17, 2015 report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u155	Mr. Nollet, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u156	Excuse me, ma'am!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u157	You're charming! In any event, I am not going to grant to Electrabel, an operator who intervenes and who could make a third storage pool, aid which comes from his own operating profit which he is required to give as part of a consideration for an unhoped-for extension of his nuclear power plants beyond 2015. I haven't been that far in detail, but it was about storage. We'll come back and, anyway, like in the nuclear supply business, it's a government business. It is the royal decree that provides for this: it is the government that decides. I will go to the government with my file and you will soon know his decision on the various projects proposed and analysed by DG Energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u158	Minister, I am obliged to deny your comments immediately. When we exchanged both in plenary on 17 June 2015 and in committee (cf. DOC 1043/003), we were not talking specifically about storage, we were talking globally about the generation of electricity by nuclear power and everything nuclear does. I want to point out that our colleague Mrs Lalieux asked you the following question: "You say that nuclear research cannot be financed from this fund, but could the MYRRHA project – which has nothing to do with storage – be financed from this fund?" You said, "No."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u159	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u160	This has nothing to do with storage, it has to do with the production of nuclear electricity and it has to do with everything that is mentioned in these pages. I invite you to read again what you said. Beyond the rereading, I invite you to respect the commitment that has been made, not just for storage or MYRRHA, but for the entire nuclear sector. You will also read the answer you gave me earlier. You are expected at the turn of May 31 to see that none of the eight nuclear-related issues will have been included in the government's proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u161	Mr Nollet, we take note of your second reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u162	Mr. Chair, can the minister confirm that we will have access to all the applications?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u163	Subject to private data on companies or institutions presenting the projects, I do not see any obstacles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u164	Madam Minister, I note that there is a substantive problem, in particular that the resources are not used for the right things, but there is also, above all, a political problem. This is gonna be a sequel. I will also interview the Prime Minister on this, because the Minister made it clear during the parliamentary discussion that they would not be used for nuclear projects, which is happening now. I will make an interview with the Prime Minister, because once again Minister Marghem has not told the truth in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u165	Mr President, Madam Minister, a little over two months ago, Elia decided to exercise her right of preemption over the 20% of the capital of the German 50 Hertz network. At the time, Elia had pointed out that this acquisition would have no impact on Belgian consumers' tariffs. How do you analyse this situation and investment? Can you guarantee that there is no impact on the consumer? Can you guarantee that this transaction will not have an impact on the financial rating of the Elia Group and, in a cascade, on the cost of borrowing and ultimately on the consumer? What if things go wrong in Germany? Should you not initiate a reflection similar to what was undertaken in Wallonia to refocus the missions of network managers? What does CREG say about this financial operation of Elias? Did you ask for her? What action(s) has CREG possibly initiated with regard to Elia? What response(s) has she received?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u166	Mr President, Mr Elia has effectively exercised his right of preemption over 20% of Eurogrid International, previously owned by IFM, in a transaction that amounts to around EUR 1 billion. As the Federal Minister for Energy, I am following this issue very closely because it is important that the Belgian consumer's bill is not affected by this acquisition and its financing. Under its jurisdiction under the Electricity Act, CREG is entrusted with the task of advising the public authorities and with the task of monitoring and monitoring the application of laws and regulations. Furthermore, the same law allows the electricity transmission system operator to carry out any other activities outside Belgium, either directly or through equity ownership, only if they do not have a negative influence on the independence of the system operator or on the performance of the tasks entrusted to him by law. I therefore asked the CREG to investigate this case on 26 April. In particular, I want to be told whether there is an impact for the Belgian consumer. The CREG informs me that it has asked Elia on several occasions and for several weeks for information and various reports, in particular on the financing and rating of Elia. The CREG is busy examining this information and these reports, the last of which were transmitted by Elia again yesterday. I asked CREG to keep me informed of the findings that it would make as part of its monitoring mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u167	Minister, do you have any idea when the CREG will have completed its analysis? Because I intend to put my question back to our next meeting, which will take place in two weeks' time, by joining it with the inquiry planned on this subject. I will update it taking into account the fact that the CREG is still analysing the proposals. Second more important point: you do not tell me what you think about the idea of transposing to the federal level what has been done in the Walloon Region to refocus the mission of the network operators. What do you think?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u168	We can talk about this, but this is a debate, Mr President, which is once again somewhat outside the scope of the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u169	But no, that was in my question. I can read it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u170	No, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u171	Mr. Nollet, please let me finish. It's a matter of principle. At the time of the liberalisation of the energy market - as you well know - it has been decided to grant Elia, a publicly traded company with public service obligations, the possibility of carrying out its activities freely provided that the developments it is undertaking do not disturb and do not affect the performance of the public service tasks entrusted to it by law. In the federated entities, there was not only a debate, but also a different way of designing the configuration of certain distribution system operators. A text is now on the table. It follows the recommendations of a commission which has worked to clarify all the structures of GRD in Wallonia. For the time being, we do not intend to do similar work with regard to Elia, who does not suffer from the same criticisms as those of other structures at the special committee or inquiry that took place in Wallonia. On the other hand, if one decides that it is not normal for a transmission system operator to have assets that it wants to grow and that allow it a certain freedom in terms of investments, under the control of its board of directors to which I refer you – it is not a board of directors very far away or completely cut off because of the public service obligations of the State –....
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u172	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u173	All right. If you have any criticisms to make, you do. As far as I'm concerned, I have a regulator who exercises his supervisory role. You can be sure, Mr. Nollet, that the regulator will be able to carry out its control mission in an extremely thorough and methodical manner. So we will see what his findings will be when he completes his examination of Elias's documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u174	Mr Nollet, I would ask you to be brief because the speaking times are out of date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u175	Mr President, I shall therefore go to the essentials. Minister, I have every confidence in the regulator. I have more doubt that you're going to follow what he's proposing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u176	Madam Minister, it is known that you are responsible for tabling before May 31 a text relating to the establishment of a system of degression of offshore overload. Within a few days of this deadline, I would like to know the main points of your reflection on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u177	Mr President, an in-depth reflection on the degression of offshore overload is under way. CREG was asked and provided valuable expertise. Since 2016, DG Energy has been in contact with the European Commission and has defended our system of degression, in particular the fact that our regulation would not be selective within the meaning of EU state aid rules. The subject is still under discussion and positions have not been agreed. Before discussing it in the government, any premature communication about it would be incomplete and could be a source of contempt. The outcome of this reflection will be given priority to government partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u178	Madam Minister, I regret that you are not in a position to present us with the main points and that you do not agree to engage in a real substantive debate with Parliament for guidelines that are fundamental in this area. You're hiding behind the fact that we need a government decision first. I've known you differently, and most of all I've known your colleagues who dare to take on their positions, even though they have to evolve as a result of discussions within the government. I can only regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u179	Madam Minister, during our exchange of April 25th, you were telling me that the interim report of the GWG (Law Working Group), set up in 2014 to address the numerous loopholes in nuclear legislation, had finally arrived at you and that three priority themes had been identified: provisioning for establishments not covered by the Act of April 11, 2003; the situation of voluntary or involuntary cessation of nuclear activities; and the establishment of a coordinated law on the management of nuclear waste. On this last point, the LWG wishes to be able to seek external legal advice. In your response, you wanted to clarify that these were the priorities of the LWG. My first question, therefore, is whether you share these priorities. If so, what mandate and schedule have you given to the LWG for its further work? If not, what are your own priorities? I would also like to know how you will link this work with those of the IRRS Group – between ONDRAF and AFCN – but also with the proposals put forward by the CPN. Should a comprehensive text be expected, incorporating all the suggestions? What is the deadline? Will you give your green light to work through external legal advice?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u180	Member, unless I am mistaken, it does not seem to me to have indicated to you on 25 April that I have received the report from the OWG. On the other hand, I replied that my administration had informed me that it had identified three themes. In a previous reply, dated 7 March, I informed you that my administration had informed me that the OWG had resumed its work in the form of a plenary session at the end of January, the purpose of which was to take stock of the various themes, to decide on the continuation of its work and to agree on the priority themes, taking into account, on the one hand, the results of the work of the IRRS – bringing together ONDRAF and AFCN – as well as their implementation and, on the other hand, the work carried out by the Commission on Nuclear Supplies. On this basis, my administration informed me that the OWG had decided to refocus its work on improving the legislative framework for nuclear operators other than nuclear power plants and SYNATOM. I therefore expect to receive this report as soon as possible. With regard to your questions and priorities, I intend to start by looking at the report before I take a decision. However, I have already provided you with some answers at our committee on 22 January. It seems to me that I have already answered, referring in particular to my general policy note and my answer to your question No. 22461, that I would like the priority of the work of the OWG to be oriented towards proposals to improve the framework in order to avoid the creation of nuclear liabilities whose cost could not be passed on to the operator, as a priority for Class 2 and Class 3 installations. In this sense, the first priority indicated by my administration responds. Secondly, I come to your questions about the working method. I already explained to you in committee on 23 January, 7 March and 25 April that it was useful for me "to move forward in directions complementary to that of the IRRS working group between ONDRAF and AFCN and the proposals made by the CPN" (25 April); "that experience teaches me that narrower thematic topics should be identified and attributed to the most appropriate actors, which my predecessor had not envisaged in this way" (23 January). Since the themes proposed so far between these three paths involving GTL, CPN, IRRS, AFCN and ONDRAF do not overlap and are distinct, I intend to continue in this way, not preventing the various actors from exchanging their views and observations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u181	Minister, I have read your answer. You're right. I naively believed that you would sum up the report, but in fact you did not mention the report in your reply at the time. I must therefore note with regret that the report is still not here. This is still incredible on the part of the LWG, which has been in place since 2014 and is working on urgent issues. Earlier, we had an exchange on EZB, which is one of the Class 2 and Class 3 companies that has a nuclear liability that is emerging. There is still no legal framework in this area. As far as I am concerned, I would like you to place at the same level of priority, or even a higher level, the establishment of a legal framework for nuclear supplies at power stations. We discussed it all afternoon about ENGIE, its evolution and its plans for Electrabel. We're not talking about millions, we're talking about billions! These two emergencies exist and I can't figure out why we still don't have a report. It is only a report, and not even legislation yet. I ask you to act so that things can move forward. I'll re-examine you on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u182	Mr. Nollet, we take note of your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u183	Mr President, Madam Minister, we know that the Kern agreement on the Energy Pact just before Easter states that you must have tabled a draft law on the capacity compensation mechanism before May 31, 2018. The urgency and importance of this text is also known for the mechanism to be in a position to implement it by 2020 at the latest. A few days before the 31st of May, I hope that you will be able to outline them. What does your proposal include? Is it approaching an existing or envisaged mechanism by another European country? What are the main lines of action?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u184	One of the main axes for the federal energy strategy is the capacity compensation mechanism. It is very important to clarify this quickly, especially as there is political uncertainty about the energy strategy and the Energy Pact. What is the state of play in the design? Which stakeholders were involved in their formatting? When will you table the draft law on this in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u185	Mr. Chair, Members of Parliament, following the results of PwC's study, a CRM with reliability options was chosen. The advantage of this system is, on the one hand, that it provides a stable investment climate and, on the other hand, that it reduces price peaks in the electricity market. In addition, the over-profits of the electricity producers participating in the system are almost entirely eliminated. The proposed system is very similar to the systems applied in other European countries, in particular Ireland and Italy. The European Commission has recently approved these systems in the above-mentioned countries. This approval by the Commission is a good thing for us. This shows that this kind of system is accepted by Europe. Currently, IKWs are being organized to discuss the project which will shortly be submitted to the Council of Ministers. The aim is to be able to visit the European Commission in June, as foreseen in the recently approved Federal Energy Strategy. Mr. Calvo, work on the draft legislation to launch the capacity compensation mechanism is proceeding as planned. The aim is to discuss it before the end of this month in the Council of Ministers and then to discuss it with the European Commission. A large number of stakeholders were contacted in the drafting process. In particular, the regulator and the transmission system operator have played an important role in the implementation and practical implementation of the system. These actors have shared their views with us several times. The aim is to reach an agreement as soon as possible. This is obviously an extremely important issue and it is essential to take into account the comments and contributions of the European Commission in this matter, which will also have an impact on timing. But of course we have to go through that. An impressive set of issues on which we are working with the European Commission are part of a "Belgian package" which will allow us to continue our discussions with the Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u186	Mr. Nollet, would you like to reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u187	Mr. President, I'm trying to save your time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u188	My reply is as limited as the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u189	Mr President, Madam Minister, it is my responsibility that the replacement of Doel 1 and Doel 2 turbines and alternators would lead to a power increase of at least two times 12 MW or even 25 MW. I think it's more like twice 12 than twice 25 times, but maybe it's two times 25 MW. Do you confirm that? Has an application been filed with the Energy FPS? And if all this is confirmed, how much will you raise the nuclear tax on these plants?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u190	Mr President, Electrabel informed me in a letter dated 1 March 2018 of his intention to carry out the retrofit or, in French, the renovation of the Doel 1 steam turbine. She indicated that this work is scheduled for early June and is expected to be completed in early October 2018. She also informed me that the thermal power remains unchanged, but that given the efficiency, the net electric power will increase from 433 MWe (MégaWatt électrique) to 445 MWe, an increase - you are right to correct, Mr Nollet - of 2.7% or 12 MWe and not, as you said earlier, of 25 MW, in your question. Electrabel also told me that the same retrofit would take place for Doel 2 in early 2019. As we have had the opportunity to discuss this at length in the preparatory work for the Doel 1 and 2 fee law (see in particular the parliamentary work referenced 54K1511), the Doel 1 and Doel 2 fee is flat rate. It amounts to EUR 20 million per year until 2025. I have already had the opportunity on many occasions to explain to you that it was not related to the fact that the plant is operating or not operating, that it was not proportional, etc. It's a 20 million euro per year package, no matter what. I refer you to all these reports and to the many hours of exchanges in committee that you have not forgotten. Since its implementation to date, this Doel 1 and Doel 2 fee has already raised €60 million for the Energy Transition Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u191	Minister, this is really amazing! You have organised everything: the calculation to reach 20 million euros out of 433 MW. Today, you realize that in fact, ENGIE Electrabel has prepared a power enhancement more or less in catimini - I have doubts about it - just below the norm to have access to it. You have 8 MW more per power plant. For Doel 2, it will be the same, as you just said. This means that in total, we have twice 12 MW that will be on the market. This will give Electrabel a greater profit. I did a quick calculation. If we count the classic pattern: 8 000 hours multiplied by 24, we are at 192 000 MWh per year. This means an additional 8 million recipes for Electrabel, cash and net! This already constitutes a discount on the nuclear tax, already insufficient to 20 million. Can you imagine? Actually, they're not gonna pay anything. This is 40% reduction of the nuclear tax simply by this little power writing game. You tell us that we can't do anything because we have flat-rate blocked at 20 million euros. Frankly, if this is not the demonstration - one more - that all this is a huge gift made to Electrabel and ENGIE... or then, you have completely been rolled in flour from your calculation to 20 million euros. Here, Electrabel grants itself a 40% reduction in the nuclear tax. This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u192	We take note of your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u193	Madam Minister, at the plenary session on 3 May, you expressed your support for "anything that may favour a broad societal base that can gradually lead to the establishment of a national policy B and C". You said that we would have the opportunity to come back to committee this 23rd of May. I would therefore like to know very concretely whether you are going to organise or ask for an environmental impact assessment of the draft national policy on radioactive waste management. I would also like to know when and in what form the public consultation on this project will be organised. Finally, in order not to repeat the debate on the other points of your exchange with ONDRAF, I would like to receive a copy of the letter you sent to ONDRAF, which you mentioned in your reply to the plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u194	Member, my answer will complement the previous answers, in particular those provided on 7 March 2018 to several attached questions and some of the answers I provided to you at the plenary session on 3 May 2018, by updating the elements. With regard to the preparation of a royal decree, as I explained to you in March, we have received a very extensive document from ONDRAF, which is more than 170 pages long. After analysing the file, I submitted a draft response letter to ONDRAF for signature by the Minister of Economy. I remind you that this matter is a joint competence between him and me and that ONDRAF is subject to the co-tutelle of our two ministries. This letter covers three elements. First, it calls on ONDRAF to improve certain aspects of the document. For example, the document is still in its form for approval by the Board of Directors. Some passages could be translated. Some pages contain confidential information and others do not. Since this is an explanatory document that serves as the basis for a draft, it seems to me important that it be used in a transparent manner and that any confidentiality issues be resolved by the author of the document itself, that is, ONDRAF. Secondly, we ask ONDRAF to summarize this document of more than 170 pages in the form of a draft royal decree. This is fully in line with Article 4 of the Law of 3 June 2014 amending Article 179 of the Law of 8 August 1980 on the 1979 and 1980 budget proposals with a view to the transposition into domestic law of Council Directive 2011/70/EURATOM of 19 July 2011 establishing a Community framework for the responsible and safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, which provides, inter alia, that "by deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the body and after consulting the competent regulatory authority, the King shall establish and maintain national policies for the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel." As soon as the author of the proposal, the ONDRAF, has forwarded this text to us, we will have an explanatory document in a version in which the confidentiality issues have been resolved and a draft royal decree proposed by the organization itself. As soon as we receive this draft, my colleague, the Minister of Economy, and I will formally ask, via the Minister of the Interior, for the opinion of AFCN. With regard to your questions about the law of 13 February 2006 on impact assessment and public consultation, you read correctly and indicate in your question "you and/or ONDRAF". The Act of 13 February 2006 provides for a specific definition and role for the author of a plan subject to the Act and provides for a specific procedure with various possible avenues. The law of 3 June 2014, which I mentioned earlier, indicates that national policies are proposed by ONDRAF. Of course, I can't take on a role I don't have. It is important that the organizations whose role it is to carry out their tasks and responsibilities. Nevertheless, I have already explained to you, and I repeat, I am in favour of anything that can strengthen a broad societal base and anything that can gradually lead to the final establishment of a national policy for waste B and C. We have already explained this to ONDRAF with my colleague, on several occasions and in particular in our letters of 7 November 2016 and 5 February 2018: strengthening this foundation is important and can, and should I say, be done in different ways. This is one of the fundamental reasons why we, the Minister of Economy and I, asked ONDRAF for a step-by-step approach in setting national policy. This reinforces the points of interaction with the stakeholders and must allow the progressive progress and resolution of societal discussions, phase by phase, but also technical and safety, phase by phase. We also expressed this in our February 5 letter: "The modalities for the implementation and development of this solution must nevertheless be further developed in a phased decision-making process. This will require consideration of safety, environmental, technical, financial, ethical and societal factors." Of course, the actors involved will be involved in this process. In this way, this process will ultimately lead to the selection of the appropriate site for storage. Given that this is a very important decision which will have an impact on both the present and future generations, it seems to us desirable that the latter should not be taken in haste. I am absolutely not opposed to anything that can improve this foundation through contacts with stakeholders, consultations, phasages and others. Nevertheless, I do not want to replace the author of the plan, who also has the structure to implement it. With regard to your practical question, the Act of 13 February 2006 provides for the provisions. However, I am waiting to receive the ONDRAF's reply to our letter. Finally, the letter includes a response to a request from ONDRAF that it be assigned several tasks and actions. Of course, the wish is not to anticipate and prejudge the setting of the first stage of national policy, but to fulfil certain conservatory missions or which may prepare for further discussions with the AFCN on the structure and content of certain documents. Now, Minister Peeters and I are waiting for the ONDRAF response to implement subsequent actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u195	Minister, I will respond in three phases. First of all, with regard to the impact assessment, the ONDRAF can, of course, offer you one, even if it has not done so so far. However, it will be up to you to take responsibility for it, since the decision will be yours. In the end, you will also choose whether or not to conduct a new environmental impact study. I'd like you to answer me about that. Even if the ONDRAF does not propose to do so, will you order this study, since you are in favour of it? Indeed, you declare it systematically – and I can only follow you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u196	Member, I am not the only one to decide. I am indeed in favour of it. This is not the first time I have told you, and I am doing so with all the patience required: I am in favour of it, but I am not alone in deciding. We are two responsible ministers. You have the art of saying that I have to commit myself, that I am feet and fists tied, etc. I would point out to you that all these outstanding issues for our fellow citizens are the responsibility of the government as a whole, which must take a stand. This is quite normal, since these discussions are characterized by their extreme complexity. It would be quite abnormal for the government not to stand unanimously. Moreover, it allows it to implement the government agreement that presided over its constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u197	Mr President, I am addressing the first point on the three that I announced for my reply. I think the signal on your part is now clear and can be sent to ONDRAF, hoping that ONDRAF itself will propose to carry out this new impact assessment. Indeed, legally he has no choice; I have said it and said it again, and you know it. That is why you are personally in favour of it, too. I come to the second point of my reply: public consultation. In this regard, the ONDRAF does not tell you anything, but the law says that it must be organized. There is no discussion about this. We agree on this reading. I am no longer talking about impact assessment, but about public consultation. There is no discussion to have and you do not mention it in your answer. Will there be a public consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u198	You didn't listen well. I said it was planned. You say it differently, but there are several ways to achieve it. I replied that ONDRAF would position itself on how it intended to achieve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u199	This will not be about the principle of consultation, since it has no choice, but about how. You're waiting for proposals from ONDRAF. The third point is that I would like to have a copy of the letter you sent. Since you sent us a copy of the previous letters, I assume you will send us a copy of it as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u200	Yes, Mr. Nollet! I know you!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u201	If we can receive this copy, thank you!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u202	Mr President, Madam Minister, we had the opportunity to discuss in plenary session the payment of a dividend of 1.6 billion by Electrabel to ENGIE, while the company is in the red. In doing so, it reduces its own funds and weakens all the construction developed for the subsequent financing of waste management and decommissioning of plants. You gave SYNATOM 8 days to ensure that Electrabel offered sufficient guarantees to meet its obligations, both its obligations as borrower and its legal obligations as debtor of nuclear supplies according to the polluter-pays principle. What about it? Can we have a copy of their answer? What guarantees have they given you? What do you think?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u203	Mr Nollet, you will certainly remember that I answered a virtually identical question earlier. You always ask the same questions, formulated from different angles, but which concern the same problem. I told you – and you pointed out that we were joining – that the Prime Minister and I felt that the draft plan envisaged by ENGIE was unacceptable. So I have already answered that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u204	Attention, minister, I am no longer in the context of the question put earlier. You gave SYNATOM eight days to make sure she offered guarantees. The basic proposal was unacceptable, agreed; but in addition, you gave it eight days to make sure things were going on. As these eight days have passed, my question is whether you have obtained the guarantees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u205	This deadline has not yet expired. I sent the letter last Friday. It's not been eight business days.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u206	If the letter was sent on Friday, you're right, minister. The eight days have not expired. I had calculated differently, but I hear what you're saying. That means that at this stage you have not yet received your guarantees. They have two or three days to provide them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u207	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u208	I shall therefore rest with you at our next meeting, which is due to take place in fifteen days' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u209	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Wollants' 25602 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u210	Madam Minister, at this very moment this question has become even more topical and relevant in view of the debate in the Flemish Parliament this afternoon. There is, of course, a fundamental decision on the Energy Pact. A number of partial aspects have already been addressed today. You and your colleagues in the government are responsible for the further roll-out of this. Unfortunately, there are people on the sidelines that make life harder for you. Our group is here to make life easier for you and to support you in your ambitions. However, there is a party chairman of a coalition partner, Mr De Wever in particular, who makes life more difficult for you on the sidelines and who actually mortgages the roll-out of the Energy Pact. I look at the statements made over the last few days and weeks, including during the Agoria debate and in the Watt programme of the VRT. In this way, of course, some of the uncertainty will be organised, including for the investors you need to attract and convince. In this way, the capacity compensation mechanism will also be much more expensive. In this context, there will be less willingness to take investment decisions. I would therefore like to ask you today about the state of play of the deployment of the Energy Pact. I would particularly like to know how this is politically shaped in your government and with the Länder. Madam Secretary, why has that become more topical today? There has just been a debate in the Flemish Parliament where Prime Minister Geert Bourgeois has shown that the Flemish Government has not actually signed the Energy Pact. So there is now also doubt about the willingness of the Flemish Government to do so throughout this process. What is the state of play with regard to the roll-out of the Energy Pact? How does this practicalisation take place in the government? How is the consultation with the Regions going? I would also like to express your reaction to Mr Geert Bourgeois' statements this afternoon. What measures will be developed in the short term? What role do you provide for Parliament in this process? In addition to question sessions, such as this one, it is important to build political support. There is clear political support for some of the principles. Do not be distracted by the attitude or feedback of the N-VA, there is a crushing social and political majority for some ideas in the Energy Pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u211	Thank you, Mr President, Mr President, first of all, I would like to repeat to you what has been made clear several times and that it is important to understand what situation we are in. First, the four Energy Ministers finalized an inter-federal energy vision in December 2017. It's extraordinary enough to be highlighted. The second thing is that each government, the federal government and the federated entities responded in the way they felt most timely in relation to this document. The Brussels Region and the Walloon Region took note of this document. The federal government, under the leadership of a majority partner group, has requested a documented study that has resulted in what has been called the federal energy transition strategy. The aim of this federal strategy was to say, "This is how we, at the federal level, appropriate the energy vision of the four ministers who worked outside their respective governments, with their way of seeing and charting the path of the energy transition". And, "for the realization of this energy vision within the exclusive framework of federal jurisdiction, that is what we, the federal government, believe we have to do." Therefore, this federal strategy paper was drawn up with a series of actions to be implemented: on the energy standard, on the mechanism of capacity compensation, on monitoring, on the national level Energy-Climate, on burden sharing and on offshore wind. Then I will start with the end: for offshore wind farms, there was a question of filing a royal decree by 27 April at the latest. It was done. I had the opportunity earlier to reply to a question raised earlier by Mr Nollet. And the support mechanism, therefore, the royal decree which provides for it is currently being sent to the European level for discussion and finalization. Burden sharing and PNEC. The burden sharing 2021-2030 takes place within the framework of the National Climate Commission provided that negotiations with Europe are concluded, which is not the case. And the National Energy-Climate Plan, which is a work of accumulating statistics and achievements in energy and climate at all levels of power in this country, and mapping prospects for 2030, is a document that will be aggregated next July. Only then will we be able to learn about the work that has been carried out by our respective administrations in order to draw up a draft plan, to be submitted to Europe at the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u212	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u213	How?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u214	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u215	Yes, but I have no answers other than those I give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u216	No. It is not that you are neutral, but you do not have the floor: it is Mr Calvo who is calling here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u217	But that is very good; I am delighted, Mr. Nollet! If it's over, I'm just asking to see it. Frankly, I have remained informed in a way that may not be sufficiently accurate and up-to-date, but the latest information available to me is that of July. It is, moreover, those which I communicated this morning to the Consultative Council of the CREG. There are still four administrations. So if one says it's over while the others don't think the same thing, then we have to be careful. As far as the capacity mechanism is concerned, you know that work is under way at IKW level to finalize a draft law by the end of the month and to forward it as soon as possible for discussion to the European Commission. The aim of this project is to ensure that investments in flexible, reliable and controllable capacity in the electricity market are sufficient in the years to come, so that the objective of the Pact can become a reality, the aim being – I would remind you once again – to compensate for the exit of nuclear power generation in our country. A governance structure is being developed to monitor the four indicators, namely, security of supply, climate impact, price and nuclear safety. It is important at the federal level to monitor progress in the implementation of the Pact, in collaboration with the Regions, in order to create as much synergy as possible. The energy standard is, in fact, an instrument of comparison that allows us to see how the different components of energy prices evolve and whether our companies remain competitive with the companies in neighbouring countries. This mechanism is, of course, being drawn up with the Regions. And we have decided to entrust the association of regulators (FORBEG) with a work of exploration and documentation to establish this energy standard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u218	I did not receive a full response to the progress of the interaction with the Regions. If I hear Prime Minister Bourgeois today claim not to have signed that pact, it is very difficult for me to follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u219	Mr Calvo, I understand your question very well. I'll tell you something. The federal level, despite everything that is said, everything that has been heard and everything that will still be heard, is ultimately the one where the penalty has been taken to deepen, document and take a concrete position with a timing. I found – I saw it in the Walloon Region, I am sure – that in reality it was not an adoption but an act. At the same time, the Walloon government already had a plan that it was densifying to achieve its energy vision as set out in the document. Geert Bourgeois said, "We didn't adopt this plan." While Mr Tommelein said on 30 March, I remember very well: "We are at the Flemish Council of Ministers and we have also adopted the Pact." Today, I hear this statement, I don't know it and I'll read about it. I will see precisely what Mr Bourgeois says. This attitude seems to me parallel to that of the Walloon government, which has taken note of the energy vision and is continuing its concrete plan for energy transformation in regional competences. Let's be good at it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u220	I am in good standing because the problems are even bigger than here. I'm not looking for conflict with you. An inter-federal energy pact was announced. Is that still the case or not? If that's the case, I can still ask the question. Have they signed or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u221	Undoubtedly, Mr Calvo, this is the case, regardless of the way in which both express themselves, making political positioning. You know that. We all do politics. At some point, one wants to show that he thinks this, that he says this, that he wants this, that he wants this. What's the truth? The truth is, you can't make an energy standard without working together, and that's what we did. So, with the Walloon regional minister at least – I saw a letter passing in this direction – we asked for the association of regulators to work on the energy standard. This means that there is an acute awareness that the price of energy, as the consumer sees on his bill, is an addition of components whose competences are shared between the federal and the regions. There is, of course, a need for inter-federal work in this area so that a valid energy standard mechanism can be developed. It's a first thing. Secondly, the National Energy-Climate Plan (PNEC) is necessarily inter-federal work. We can tell anything we want. From the moment that in the framework of the PNEC, you have an obligation towards Europe to resume all the actions that have been carried out at all levels of power in energy and climate and to chart the prospects in this same framework towards 2030, as regards work that is carried out by our four administrations, it is obvious that this is inter-federal work. That both of them need to manifest themselves – and I will not interfere with what they say, because I want to remain in my role as federal minister – by pretending that this vision emanates only from energy ministers, but not from their respective governments, I do not know if it is so serious. In fact, they do work together.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u222	They're hiding it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u223	They don't tell you, they don't tell you, because they're politically positioned. Still, de facto, they work together. I like that you cut your hair in fours and look at each other's statements, but I keep moving. My schedule is set. Even before my counterparts shared their vision, I had already developed the federal energy strategy. You will recall that in July 2017, we submitted to Parliament the texts on flexibility and demand management.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u224	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u225	Mr Calvo, that will be the last line!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u226	Mr President, Mr Calvo has not yet had much opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u227	He is entitled to a brief reply of up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u228	Minister, I understand that the government wants to be involved in the dialogue on energy standards. However, with regard, for example, to the exit of nuclear power, I must note that the statements of De Wever and Bourgeois contradict your argument that the entities cooperate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u229	Mr Calvo, when I arrived at the Council of Ministers last Friday, I was asked about Mr Bart De Wever's comments. You referred earlier to a program in which he must intervene. We already know his statements, but I guess we'll know more by looking at her tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u230	It was yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u231	Oh, sorry!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u232	It wasn't that interesting, because he made a lot of mistakes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u233	Maybe. I didn't watch this show, but I'm gonna try to do it. I just said this. That is quite accurate and neutral, because it must be. He's not a member of the government. So he didn't decide with us. N-VA ministers presented, as you saw on television on 30 March, the agreement on which we agreed within the framework of the federal energy strategy, which includes concrete actions, a concrete timetable for achieving our objectives. If you read the energy vision of the four energy ministers, you see that for the federal side, I have written a series of things that include the installation of gas and other power plants. This will obviously have to be achieved. I'm doing everything I can to make it happen because it's part of my concrete schedule and the timing I've been talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u234	Madam Minister, I invite you to watch today's show on the Flemish Parliament. When we hear Mr Bourgeois' statements, there are reasons to worry!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u235	Mr Calvo, we take note of your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u236	Madam Minister, it is not a new question but a question that has been asked several times. In order to assess the life span of Objective 1 and Objective 2 and Tihange 1, an estimate was made at the time, which was also presented to us in Parliament with a number of tables. I have already asked you about the current evaluation of the cost of the LTO procedure. You indicated that you did not have the information at that time. You then suggested that we contact the CREG, which I did. The CREG had not yet received the data in the first instance, but would have received it by now. It seems logical to me that you now have this information at your disposal as Minister, and if this has not happened spontaneously, you have requested this information and you are now prepared to share it with Parliament. Can you provide me with the adapted tables on the costs for the different plants with the state of investment at the end of 2017? Have certain investment costs changed? If so, which one? Has there been any increase in investment costs? What influence do the inaccessibility of the power stations, for example those of Objective 1, have on the costs and roll-out of LTO? For the latter, I would like to call on you to build in guarantees so that the costs associated with maintenance and repair after any of the incidents are not included in the LTO report. I would like to ask that the LTO reporting is done correctly for a correct estimate of the cost of this lifetime extension. I look forward to your answer and I hope you have this information in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u237	As you yourself have pointed out, I have already answered many of your questions at length, particularly in the committee on 7 March 2018. I would therefore refer you to my extensive answer to your questions Nos. 23415 and 23117. There are no new elements to date and my answer remains unchanged. We are only on May 23, 2018. In the meantime, there is nothing new. In reply to your last sub-question on Doel 1, for the part specifically concerned with this government, I can only point out to you, as I have done in replying to Mr Nollet's question No 25532, that the amount of the fee linked to the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 is flat-rate and in no way influenced by the unavailability. This amount is EUR 20 million a year, no matter what. I also confirm in passing that this amount was well paid by the owner Electrabel in March 2018. As I have already told you in March, I repeat to you once again: in view of this flat-rate nature, the law does not provide for special monitoring or verification.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic903x.u238	I agree with that last point. But I do not understand, Madam Secretary, that you do not have the verification of costs. You replied to me in detail last time and referred me to the CREG to inform me there. The CREG replied to me that it had not yet received the costs itself. I have to be told by the media that the costs would be at the discretion of the CREG in the meantime. It's hard for me to comprehend that. I have to send all kinds of letters and the Energy Minister does not have the cost of extending the lifespan. I don't understand why you don't charge them. You have to know that and want to know that. I'll send a new mail to CREG. If I receive an answer, I will forward it to your office, Madam Minister.
