ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u1	Minister, representatives of Syrian civil society came to Brussels on 23 April. These organisations are extremely concerned about the proposals and plans of, inter alia, the World Bank for the reconstruction of Syria. The concern of these organisations is that the reconstruction of Syria, without any concessions from the regime in terms of political and social rights, will lead the regime to abuse the reconstruction for its own policy. Allies of the president and loyal parts of the country will be rewarded for their support. Insurgent regions will once again be punished after the war by denying the regime their aid and resources for reconstruction. Moreover, the rights of those who have fled the country cannot be guaranteed and in neighbourhoods rebuilt without a significant proportion of their refugees, those refugees can be prevented from returning if their land and property rights are not taken into account. I have the following questions. What opportunities do you see for involving Syrian civil society organisations in the debates on reconstruction and humanitarian aid in Syria? How can we prevent the reconstruction of Assad's regime from having funds that can use and abuse it at its sole discretion? In the long term, civil society organisations hope to build long-term partnerships with the EU to cherish and keep alive the shared humanist and democratic values they and the EU stand for in Syria. How do you see such a partnership possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u2	Ms Pehlivan, since 2012, Belgium has been providing humanitarian assistance in Syria through international humanitarian organisations and Belgian NGOs, such as the World Food Programme, UNHCR, the International Committee for the Red Cross, UNICEF, UNRWA, OCHA, Oxfam, Croix-Rouge de Belgique, Caritas, Handicap International and the Red Cross Flanders. These organisations work closely with local Syrian partners in the field, who often are responsible for the implementation of the interventions. The Belgian focus is on protection, education, health care and basic services, such as food, water and winter services. In addition, Belgium contributes to Syrian and Turkish humanitarian funds. Both funds allow local humanitarian organisations to apply for funding for interventions based on the effective needs of the affected population and the expertise of the organisations. Belgium finances humanitarian aid through humanitarian organisations or funds, not through national, regional or local authorities. For Belgium, Syrian civil society organisations play a crucial role in the debates on reconstruction and humanitarian aid in Syria, hence our support for the EU initiative to organise the side-event "The future of Syria and the region, voices from the Syrian civil society" in the Egmont Palace in the margins of the Brussels II conference on 24 April 2018. For the second time, several Syrian civil society organisations were invited to debate the challenges and priorities for the future. However, the European position as well as the Belgian position is very clear: there can be no aid for reconstruction, as long as there is no credible political transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u3	Minister, it is important that Europe and Belgium do not send a signal to the world that the Assad regime is being standardised. Cooperation and support from peaceful civil organisations in Syria, wherever possible, seems to me to be the best way to keep the seeds of democracy alive in Syria. We must therefore continue with the projects that we are already supporting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u4	Minister, with this question we are going to a very different part of the world. The Democratic Republic of Congo has within its borders the second largest area of rainforest in the world. It is not only an important biotope for rare and unique animals, it is also a crucial defence against climate change. Good management of forests and their natural wealth can also be a source of sustainable wealth for the local population. The World Bank recognised the importance of the Congolese forests in 2016 and approved the REDD+ programme, which makes 90 million dollars per year available for sustainable forest management and nature conservation in Congo. Vulnerable forests and local residents would receive the necessary support, necessary for their survival and prosperity. Recently, however, the French researcher Marine Gauthier of the organisation Rights + Resources has issued a destructive report on the impact of the REDD+ programme in Congo. The hood of rare trees for export continues unabated, rare species are seriously threatened and local residents are at the mercy of the situation on all fronts. The granting of land rights was substandard, threatening their livelihoods. The researcher therefore calls for a serious study of the situation and for a halt to the funding of the programme. Can you give me your position on the report and the REDD+ programme? Has Belgium contributed to the REDD+ programme? Will Belgium decide on the future financing and implementation of the REDD+ programme in Congo?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u5	On 1 January 2009, the Democratic Republic of Congo started supporting the United Nations REDD+ programme and the World Bank's Forest Carbon Partnership Facility. REDD stands for reducing emissions from beforestation and forest degradation. The cooperation resulted in the adoption of a national Congolese REDD+ strategy in November 2012. The strategy aims to stabilise the forest stock from 2030 onwards up to 63.5% of Congolese territory. Currently, the forest stock accounts for approximately 67 percent of the total area of the DRC and around 10% of the world's forest area. In order to implement this strategy, the government has set up the national REDD+ fund, which wishes to mobilise and coordinate international funding. In February 2016, the Congolese Government signed a financing agreement with the Central African Forest Initiative, CAFI, for an amount of $200 million. CAFI is a multi-donor fund that has established an international partnership with the aim of slowing down deforestation and the deterioration of the forest stock in Central Africa and eventually stopping it. This strategy can be an important step in the transition to a greener economy, low in carbon, economically efficient and pursuing a sustainable environment. The development of agriculture cannot be separated from global warming, the many side effects of which reduce agricultural production and thus significantly affect access to sufficient food for the population. That is why the investment in the REDD+ strategy, where attention to adapted sustainable agriculture is a priority, is so important. The REDD+ strategy is therefore of considerable quality and relevance for the DRC and the world forest stock. The implementation of the strategy by the DRC is problematic given the low quality of Congolese administration and the prevailing corruption. The recent study by French researcher Maureen Gauthier draws attention to the lack of management capacities, the problematic implementation of decentralisation in the DRC and the complex legal framework in the field of land rights which the population is not familiar with. Belgium did not contribute directly to the REDD+ strategy. For budgetary reasons, it was not possible to finance the CAFI Fund. A number of European Commission projects were financed through delegated cooperation. They contribute to the REDD+ strategy, in particular support for forest management through the Forest Law Enforcement, Governance and Trade initiative, rural electrification in Lubero to reduce pressure on the Virunga Park and support for Yangambi as a scientific centre of expertise in human and forest matters. However, the Congolese Government does not carry out sufficient policy reforms and grants forest exploitation permits in protected areas, threatening the successful implementation of the CAFI programme in the DRC. The Congolese forestry sector is still characterised by a lack of good governance, corruption and illegal forest extraction. On 6 March 2018, CAFI announced to suspend funding for the DRC until the illegal authorisations for forest extraction are withdrawn. In these circumstances, I do not consider it appropriate to grant funding for the implementation of the REDD+ strategy. I would like to draw attention to the active monitoring of forest issues in the DRC and to the fact that Minister of State François-Xavier de Donnea has been a facilitator of the Congo Basin Forest Partnership since the beginning of this year. The Congo Basin Forest Partnership was launched by the then American Foreign Minister Colin Powell as a voluntary multi-stakeholder initiative with the aim of supporting African countries in the conservation and sustainable management of the forests of the Congo Basin. The Congo Basin Forest Partnership brings together more than seventy different partners, including African states, donors, international organisations, NGOs, scientific institutions and the private sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that you attach great importance to this. Even if we do not finance the programme, we can follow it up. This is not only important for Africa; these forests are ultimately important for the whole world.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u7	Madam President, Minister, this is about a very different world. From 22 to 25 April, the World Cacao Conference was held in Berlin for representatives of the cocoa and chocolate sectors. The conference once again showed that Belgium is strikingly absent from the global debate on labour rights in the cocoa sector, which has an important symbol value in the international effort to achieve more fair trade and to ensure necessary enforceable respect for human rights in the private sector. The cocoa market is global, but it is in the hands of a handful of big players. Traders like Barry Callebaut, Olam and Cargill buy almost all cocoa from the farmers and plantations in the production countries, after which Mars, Mondelez, Nestlé and Ferrero process the cocoa to the chocolate we can buy everywhere. Belgium imports as much as 10% of all cocoa production. Nevertheless, it is not present in the debate. That debate is necessary, however, because despite the good intentions and promises of the big players, things are going badly in the sector. Child labour is growing again, wages are sad and the environmental impact is considerable. In Ghana and Côte d'Ivoire alone, 2.1 million children work in the cocoa sector. Just because it's just a handful of multinationals that determine the market, it's possible to focus on tackling the abuses and remind those big players of their responsibility. This requires a strong signal from the government of countries that are a big customer of these big players. Belgium is such a big customer and we have the chance to put our weight on the scale. However, we did not do this, also because of our absence at the World Cacao Conference. Minister, 18 recommendations were drawn up at the World Cacao Conference at the end of April, including the demand to focus on transparency of the entire production process, so that stakeholders can be held accountable when things go wrong. Will this government contribute to this debate in order to establish an enforceable system that benefits producers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u8	Madam President, foreign development cooperation is working with a number of actors to actively support the sustainable production of cocoa, especially through BIO-invest, direct investment in Ghana and Vietnam, and indirect investment in financial structures in West Africa, with the aim of facilitating access to finance for producers or producer organisations active in agriculture, particularly cocoa production. There is also work through Enabel, with the Trade for Development Centre programme, which provides support for specific features, such as a label for wild cocoa, to the 40 agricultural organisations mainly in Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana, and previously in Latin America and Vietnam. The consolidation of partnerships also involves the private sector, such as Choprabisco, the local sector of Barry Callebaut, etc. Civil society is also involved, through funding programmes of Belgian NGOs working in support of this sector, such as Fairtrade Belgium and Récolte. The Belgian Development Cooperation has also provided a grant to the platform The Shift to promote public-private partnerships. IDH, The Sustainable Trade Initiative, is currently engaged in discussions with the Belgian chocolate and cocoa sector in order to achieve a common ambition in the autumn. They work closely with The Shift for this. Yesterday I had a first round table meeting with a limited group of players active in the sector. IDH will then draw up a programme by the end of this year in which the private sector in Belgium will make commitments in the context of sustainable cocoa production. In addition, DGD will set up a financial facility in the second half of this year in which it calls for projects involving private sector companies to enter into partnerships with other actors and invest in SMEs in developing countries. Such investments can also benefit the cocoa sector. After all, the involvement of the private sector is extremely important to ensure sustainability in the activities of Belgian industry and to achieve sustainable development objectives in the cocoa value chain by 2030. Efforts are also being made from the broader FPS Foreign Affairs to focus on the business and human rights angle on cocoa trade. On the occasion of the recent trade mission to Côte d'Ivoire, a seminar was facilitated on the prevention and elimination of child labour in the cocoa sector, in cooperation with, among other things, the TDC programme of Enabel. In short, our fellow countryman Michel Arion is a candidate for the post of Executive Director of the International Cocoa Organization with its seat in Abidjan. The Belgian Government supports his candidacy and the FPS Foreign Affairs coordinates the campaign he conducts in cocoa-consuming and cocoa-producing countries. Mr Arion is well known in the cocoa sector, with projects for sustainable cocoa production and the problem of child labour. If he is allowed to be the Executive Director of the ICCO, he will undoubtedly place these issues on the agenda of the organisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u9	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I hear there's a very intensive succession from Belgium. I'm happy about that. Our presence at international level can also be a clear signal. That is also how we can express our views. I look forward to the agreement to be concluded in the autumn. I'll follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u10	Minister, I regularly inform myself about the situation in Congo through various platforms. The CongoForum is one of them. That platform was launched in 2005. The aim is to promote and bring to the attention of the Congo, but also to encourage and improve links between the two countries. It is an important project that runs on volunteers and only received public support for EUR 5 000 once, in the period 2004-2009. On previous grant applications to your cabinet, and probably also to the previous Cabinets, CongoForum received the answer that there is no budget and that no subsidies can be given to a non-profit organisation without external audit. However, such an external audit is not feasible for a small non-profit association with few people and resources. However, such smaller projects, especially for Congo, are of great importance, because they strengthen from the bottom up the Belgian-Congolese relations. That is why it is important that we support them as well as possible so that they can continue to exist. I would therefore like to ask you the following question. Can you clarify the decision not to grant subsidies to CongoForum?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u11	Article 26 of the Belgian Development Cooperation Act of 19 March 2013 provides that only an organisation recognised for this purpose may apply for grants. The conditions for recognition are set out in the same Article. One of these conditions is to have a performant system of organizational control. The conditions set out in the Act are further specified in the Royal Decree of 11 September 2016 on non-governmental cooperation. For example, the performance of organizational control and management system must be demonstrated by successful screening. In short, non-governmental organisations are only eligible for budget grants if the performance of their organisational control has been checked and subsequently accredited as a recognised organisation. The general screening procedure was completed in 2016. CongoForum has not applied for recognition. Consequently, the performance of the management system has not been verified and CongoForum has not been accredited as a recognised organisation. Therefore, CongoForum cannot receive multi-annual funding. However, nothing prevents unaccredited organisations from responding to project calls issued by a diplomatic post. In the DRC, our embassy has launched a call on anti-corruption and rights-based projects. I do not know whether CongoForum has responded to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The first element of response is known to me. The second element is interesting for a small organisation to be able to deal with it. At least I'll pass on the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u13	Mr Dallemagne is absent. His question has been deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u14	Minister, my question dates from the beginning of May, but it is of course relevant to get a final state of affairs on Congo. On Friday 13 April, a donor conference was held on Congo in response to the humanitarian crisis in the country. It is good that our country has been a pioneer in Geneva. With 13 million Congolese people in humanitarian need and 4 million people fleeing, the donor countries announced that they would provide EUR 472 million of humanitarian aid. The Belgian government announced that it would increase the humanitarian budget for Congo from EUR 17 million to EUR 25 million. The Belgian contribution to the financing of humanitarian partner organisations and donor humanitarian funds is also increased to EUR 90 million, which is a very significant amount. The Congolese Government was not present at the conference, partly because the crisis would not be excessive and Congo is not sufficiently involved. The Congolese Foreign Minister Okitundu announced before the conference that NGOs accepting Belgian money would be banned from working in Congo. After the conference, he moderated his statement and indicated that he would not refuse humanitarian aid, but it should be given in cooperation with the Congolese Government. I would like to ask the following questions, Minister. What is your assessment of the impact of the budget increase? What measures are involved in the increased aid to tackle the crisis on the ground? How do you estimate the Congolese Government's response to humanitarian aid today? Will NGOs be obstructed in their work? Are you thinking of possible alternatives to direct humanitarian aid, for example through the Common Humanitarian Fund or a new flexible fund to avoid sanctions by the Congolese Government against NGOs receiving Belgian aid?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u15	Mrs Van Hoof, the immense needs well justify the increase to EUR 25 million in the Belgian humanitarian budget for the DRC. The UN estimates that the total humanitarian funding requirement for the DRC in 2018 would be EUR 1.68 billion, a doubling over last year. Given the scale of the crisis, Belgian resources can only alleviate a small part of the needs, but every euro counts to save lives. Belgium shows its solidarity with the Congolese people and is a principal donor: our aid is neutral, unconditional and impartial. We cannot therefore link it with measures that should address the root causes of the crisis. That is something for other channels and other instruments. In principle, we should welcome the commitment of the Congolese government. Governments are the primary responsibility for protecting and caring for the population. The authorities must, of course, respect humanitarian principles and facilitate access to humanitarian areas without discrimination. In the meantime, the DRC Government has adopted a more cautious position with regard to the NGOs that will work with Belgian humanitarian resources. What the future brings is watching coffee. It is now important to continue to work serenely and not to escalate the case. Only in this way can humanitarian organisations continue their life-saving work. The EUR 25 million I have announced are intended directly for aid in the DRC. Of these, EUR 4.5 million goes to the DRC Humanitarian Fund, the current designation of the Common Humanitarian Fund, which you mention. That fund may in principle finance any humanitarian organisation operating in the DRC. More than EUR 5 million is earmarked for Belgian NGOs, whose selection of projects is still ongoing. The remaining €15.5 million goes through international organisations: the International Red Cross, the World Food Programme, FAO, UNICEF, UNHCR and OCHA. I should also mention that Belgium contributes to flexible funds that can finance humanitarian operations worldwide, such as the Central Emergency Response Fund, which can provide funding very quickly for critical humanitarian needs in underfunded contexts. This year, Belgium will contribute 12.5 million euros to the CERF. The CERF has already allocated EUR 50 million to the DRC in 2018. Belgian funds are thus also used for this indirect financing in this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u16	Thank you for the update. As you say, the needs are only getting bigger. So I fear that in the second half of this year additional resources may be needed. If Kabila's distribution and control campaign continues, the population will only be the victims of it. It is a good thing that we are following the matter closely, without, of course, escalating it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u17	Minister, it is hard to believe, but genital mutilation is still being applied today to almost 200 million women and girls. That is why there is the Joint FGM Program of UNFPA and UNICEF. It is also good that they are tackling the problem jointly, in order to combat the practice, especially in Africa, and to get it out of the world by 2030. The programme aims to provide about 8 million girls with better care, to publicise 19 million people against genital mutilation, to provide national budgets and monitoring mechanisms in 16 countries, to mobilise regional and sub-regionally and to create a global online knowledge hub. So that's very interesting. In order to achieve these objectives, the programme aims to collect a budget of 77 million dollars for the period 2018-2021. At present, the Joint FGM Programme is supported, inter alia, by the European Union, Finland, Germany, the United Kingdom, Italy, Ireland, Luxembourg and Iceland. Although Belgium contributes annually to UNFPA, which fights for women's reproductive rights, the Joint FGM Program does not receive support from the Belgian Government. However, the fight against the gruesome practice of genital mutilation is a battle which we must fight by all means, so that we can finally put an end to it. It is important that we use development cooperation as a lever to the various authorities in the region in question. Why, unlike many other European countries, has it not been decided to contribute to the programme so far? Are there plans for the future? Are specific conditions imposed on genital mutilation in development cooperation with partner countries? Are there plans to do that in the future? To what extent are Belgian funds for development cooperation specifically devoted to the fight against genital mutilation? Are there plans to put more emphasis on this in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u18	Genital mutilation is an attack on the physical integrity and consequently on the sexual rights of women and girls undergoing mutilation. The problem is addressed in the context of promoting children's rights, health and sexual and reproductive rights. In this respect, Belgian cooperation mainly operates through its multilateral partners, whose mandate has been recognised worldwide and is generally accepted by our partner countries. Belgium shall not contribute to the fund in support of the joint UNFPA-UNICEF programme. However, Belgium contributes to the implementation of the programme through delegated cooperation, the interventions of which are geographically directed towards our partner countries. That is the case for Mali. Belgian development cooperation contributes to the joint UNFPA-UNICEF programme, financed by EUR 2 million, the integrated pilot project for prevention and care of victims of female genital mutilation, vesico-genital fistulas, the fight against early marriages and the promotion of the sexual and reproductive health of women, adolescents and young people in the region of Koulikoro. The project is now in progress and will cover a period of 2 years. Female genital mutilation is closely linked to the traditions deeply anchored by local communities. Asking questions is not the appropriate approach and can even be counterproductive. The aim is to adapt standards and traditions. So it's a long-term work. Even when laws are passed, application takes a lot of time. Dialogue is therefore chosen to encourage change. Belgium will engage in this dialogue. Female genital mutilation is part of the She Decides agenda, for which Belgium is very active, both on the ground and in international fora. Advocacy is required at all levels: governments, religious leaders, local leaders, local communities, health workers, women and girls. Belgian development cooperation promotes women's and girls' rights and has a rights-based approach. Belgian cooperation mainly involves multilateral partners, UNFPA, UNICEF, UN Women and WHO. Belgium supports the mandates of these four organisations through contributions to the general funds. For UNICEF, it is a contribution of EUR 60 million for the period 2017 to 2020, for UNFPA it is a contribution of EUR 36 million for the period 2017 to 2020 and for WHO it is a contribution of EUR 16 million for the period 2017 to 2020. The latter is mainly concerned with training programmes for health professionals in the fight against genital mutilation. For UN Women, support amounts to EUR 16 million over the period 2017 to 2020. The Belgian funds for development cooperation are not specifically devoted to the fight against genital mutilation, but the fight against genital mutilation is part of a broader programme. This is the case for programmes in Mali, Guinea and Burkina Faso. In Guineae bijvoorbeeld financiert België een programma Contribution to the realization of sexual and reproductive health rights for women, adolescents and young people in the regions of Kindia, Mamou and Conakry. It is a programme of delegated cooperation in the context of the launch of cooperation between Belgium and Guinea. This concerns support for the wider UNFPA programme for health and sexual and reproductive care in the area of bilateral development cooperation. The program includes the fight against genital mutilation. It will run for three years with a contribution of EUR 3.4 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for the information. There's a lot going on around gender from your department. You have contributed to this. Child marriages and genital mutilation hit me very much against the chest. We work together with countries such as Mali, Guinea and Burkina Faso, countries from which women flee so that their children do not become victims of genital mutilation. We must have the courage to put the emphasis on that. Genital mutilation leads to the violation of reproductive rights, because it causes very difficult births, infections and fistulas. I therefore welcome the fact that a large number of programmes are being supported. As far as I am concerned, there can be a line to ensure that genital mutilation and child marriages in those countries are dealt with very effectively. The joint programme is a well-known programme, which has been running for some time and could provide a good basis to contribute to it from Belgium. Delegated cooperation is indeed a good solution to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u20	Minister, in 2014, the Belgian Alliance for Sustainable Palm Oil (BASP) was founded. For several years now, Belgium has been trying to use 100 % of RSPO-certified palm oil. Since Belgium is the largest importer of palm oil per capita in the European Union, it seems normal that it is concerned with the problems caused by the consumption of palm oil. However, the BASP has no means of verifying compliance with the commitments of its members or sanctioning them in the event of non-compliance with their commitments. According to Amnesty International, on RSPO certified plantations, human rights are reportedly not respected, including by employing children and failing to pay the minimum wage on the said plantations. It should also be noted that since 2011, the amount of palm oil used as biodiesel has tripled in Europe and Belgium. It should also be noted that biodiesel does not use sustainable palm oil. Minister, can or will restrictions be put in place to introduce binding regulations for the agrofuel sector to limit environmental, health and social damage? We know there are many of them. Certainly as far as palm oil production is concerned, it is a real ecological disaster that is taking place in some regions. Have the rights of persons working on RSPO certified plantations been verified or taken into account? Can you tell me a little more? Finally, does the BASP plan to put in place a system to better monitor compliance with the commitments of its members and, above all, with possible sanctions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u21	In recent years, world demand for vegetable oils has increased by 5% per year. Palm oil is the most produced vegetable oil in the world with a doubling of production since 2000. It is a very versatile oil used in both human and livestock food, as well as in agrofuels and the oleochemical industry. The growing demand for palm oil causes pressure in terms of land use at the expense of local communities or ecosystems and has consequences for the environment and the climate, but palm oil also makes millions of farmers and their families live. I can only support any effort to promote the sustainability of the palm oil sector. In this context, I welcome the creation in 2014 of the Belgian Alliance for Sustainable Palm Oil and the efforts made through this organisation by the palm oil sector in Belgium. In 2016, during a debate on the subject organised in the Federal Parliament by the parliamentary intergroup on fair trade with the technical support of Belgian Development Cooperation via the Trade for Development Centre programme of Enabel, the BASP undertook, during its presentation, to go further than compliance with RSPO certifications by 2020. For your specific questions about the regulation of the agrofuels sector and the quality of certification used by BASP, I would suggest that you address my colleagues in charge of energy, environment and sustainable development and employment, economics and consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u22	Minister, I assure you, that's what I did. Thank you for your answer. A very interesting symposium had been organized on the subject. In another registry, a global campaign was launched on the issue of pollution of our oceans and methods to raise awareness among our citizens. The European Union has, moreover, taken a major initiative. I hope that it will succeed and that it will be able to impose its will to ban plastics, especially plastic bags. We could also look at opportunities that could make our fellow citizens aware of the nature of palm oil and our common interest in reducing its use. We both know, Mr. Minister, the disastrous consequences of this in certain parts of the world. So I will continue my fight. If you wish, you can participate. This will make us more efficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u23	Minister, as in 2017, unfortunately we must note that the Democratic Republic of the Congo seems to be facing a new Ebola epidemic. The World Health Organization (WHO) has identified 32 potential cases that have resulted in 18 deaths since 4 April. All the cases reported so far concern the region of Bikoro, a forest area in the eastern part of the country, on the border of Congo-Brazzaville. WHO is concerned about the spread of the disease throughout the country and has stated that it is preparing for the "worse of scenarios". In particular, it has since deployed new medical teams to try to curb the spread of the virus. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Minister, the following questions: first, what information is coming back to you about the situation in the country, a potential return of the Ebola epidemic in one (or possibly other) partner country of our Development Cooperation? What follow-up do you give to this situation, particularly within the Council of the European Union, in order to ensure, where appropriate, a rapid and coordinated response by the European Union to prevent a new dramatic epidemic? Finally, in 2014, the Council of Ministers approved the dispatch of a team of B-Fast and a mobile laboratory in Guinea to combat the spread of the Ebola virus as part of a collaboration between Defense, the Catholic University of Leuven, Belgian SMEs, Luxembourg and the European Space Agency. Would such a Belgian initiative, if currently discussed, be imaginable again in the light of developments in the situation? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u24	As you know, the Democratic Republic of the Congo has been facing a new Ebola epidemic since the beginning of April 2018. My services are in constant contact with our embassy in Kinshasa, which closely follows the evolution of this ninth Ebola epidemic in the country. So far, this epidemic seems to have been confined to the DRC, as no cases have been detected in neighbouring countries. The Congolese authorities and WHO responded fairly quickly and a vaccination campaign was launched to protect contacts of all reported cases. It is an experimental vaccine that seems to be producing good results. The epidemic seems to be confined to the province of Ecuador, the health areas of Bikoro, Iboko and the city of Mbandaka. Currently, there are no cases listed in Kinshasa or elsewhere in the country. The latest news is rather reassuring and shows a stabilization of the situation. According to the latest WHO figures, as of 22 June 2018, 61 cases have been identified, 38 cases have been confirmed by laboratory tests and 28 deaths have been recorded. With regard to the monitoring of this epidemic at EU level, the Commission has taken urgent initiatives to manage and control the spread of this very deadly disease. As a result, it quickly announced a €1.6 million humanitarian aid programme which was subsequently completed and which now stands at €3.43 million. The Commission works closely with national authorities, WHO and international partners in this joint effort. The European Union provides medical flights between Kinshasa and Mbandaka and is also ready to deploy the European medical corps, a voluntary pool of European specialized teams and medical resources on request. Member States of the European Union are regularly informed about the epidemic through early warning and response systems and through regular updates of the Health Security Committee. Currently, in view of the containment of the epidemic, the WHO does not express the need for additional laboratories to be sent to the DRC to detect Ebola virus victims. The deployment of the B-Life laboratory has been envisaged, but is therefore premature at this stage. If necessary, the B-Life laboratory could be dispatched on condition that the Congolese authorities give the necessary authorizations for its deployment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for these points of answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u26	Minister, I would like to ask you about the humanitarian situation in Kasai. According to the new UNICEF report, at least 770,000 children are suffering from acute malnutrition and 440,000 are at risk of death. Millions of people had to flee their homes because of the violence. Despite the current crisis, these people continue to suffer from their exile. Meeting basic needs, i.e. access to safe drinking water and health care, remains a challenge. In addition, many health centres and schools have been destroyed. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. According to UNICEF, now that access is improving, there is an urgent need for the international community to assist Kasai children so that they can again meet their basic needs and have their education continued. Minister, does Belgium intend to help? If so, what will be the nature of Belgian aid? How much of the budget for cooperation with the Democratic Republic of the Congo will be allocated to the Kasai region? Which sectors will they be privileged? I imagine it will be education and health.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u27	I agree with you, Minister. That is why I have the following questions. UNICEF stressed the importance of international support in the humanitarian situation in Kasai. In what way can Belgium contribute in cooperation with the international community, again referring to the Donor Conference in Geneva, where the increase in the humanitarian budget was announced? Is there a specific budget for the region of Kasai? What elements will the budget be used for?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u28	Mrs Van Hoof, as you say, the situation in Kasai has stabilised, as there has been a reduction in insecurity. However, humanitarian needs remain very high. People return to devastated villages without access to social services, as schools and health centres have often been destroyed. Through the financing of humanitarian operations, Belgium helps the population to survive, protect and rebuild their lives. At present, it is very important for communities to be able to resume farming activities as soon as possible. In this respect, Belgium finances, among other things, the actions of the World Food Programme, FAO and DRC. Belgium is a principal donor. Our aid is neutral, unconditional and impartial. A large part of our aid is therefore flexible. We contribute to the overall resources of our partners and to flexible funds. This attitude of principle and flexibility means that it is impossible to indicate exactly how much Belgian funding goes to a particular region. However, the situation in Kasai is recognised as a priority by all humanitarian actors in the DRC. At the donors' conference in Geneva, I announced an increase in Belgian humanitarian aid for the DRC to €25 million in 2018. Belgium thus shows its solidarity with the affected population. This amount includes EUR 4.5 million for the DRC Humanitarian Fund managed by OCHA. This fund can finance any recognized and active humanitarian organization in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, including in the Kasai region. More than EUR 5 million is reserved for Belgian NGOs whose projects are currently being selected. The remaining €15.5 million is allocated to the following international organisations: ICRC, WFP, FAO, UNICEF, UNHCR and OCHA. Funding to WFP and FAO is aimed at adopting a dual integrated approach by combining emergency food assistance provided by WFP through the distribution of food and nutritional supplements, and the provision of agricultural inputs and services by FAO, with interventions facilitating the re-invigoration of the local economy. This program specifically targets the Great Kasai. In addition to this amount earmarked specifically for the DRC, we also contribute to the general resources of our partners and to flexible funds such as CERF, DREF, SFERA, IRA and START. The situation in Kasai is recognized by all humanitarian actors as a priority and these funds participate in the response in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Kasai.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I hear that a particular effort is being made and I welcome it, because the situation on the ground is really very, very difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u30	Thank you, Minister. It is good that a lot is being supported and that there is also a lot going on in agriculture and food security, basic needs in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u31	Madam President, Minister, countries sponsoring football clubs are not uncommon. Qatar sponsors FC Barcelona, for example. However, it was recently announced that the English club Arsenal will be sponsored by the Central African state of Rwanda. A few people did that to the eyebrows frowning after all. Rwanda is a member of the top 20 of the poorest countries. Rwanda is also an important partner country for Belgian development cooperation. Our main aim is to improve the socio-economic situation of the Rwandan population. The contract that Rwanda has now concluded with Arsenal would be for three years. The main aim is to attract foreign investors and tourists. Investment in the economy is of course very important, which is a positive thing, but the question is whether Rwanda, which depends on development aid, can afford such a luxury promotion. What is your response to this decision by the Kagame regime? Is this perhaps a reason for you to reconsider the financial support from Belgium to Rwanda? Have you, for we have been a few weeks, been able to talk to the Rwandan authorities about this, bilaterally or have any action been taken at European level? Or are you still planning on doing this? How do you assess the impact on the objective of Rwanda, namely the socio-economic situation of the Rwandan population? How can it be improved by the action that Rwanda is taking now?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u32	Madam President, Minister, I would also like to refer to President Paul Kagame's two-day visit to Brussels following the European Development Days. On Monday, June 4, he had a meeting with Prime Minister Michel. On Tuesday, June 5th, he was given an audience with King Filip. I think there have also been discussions with you and the Foreign Minister on the new bilateral cooperation agreement. However, there was also a lot of criticism of the reception of Kagame because President Kagame's regime has an authoritarian policy, where dissident voices and opposition have little place. In 2017, he was re-elected with almost 99% of the votes. Organisations like the UN and Human Rights Watch reported various human rights violations and tortures. It was also announced that Rwanda, number 19 on the list of the poorest countries according to the World Bank and one of Belgium's partner countries, will invest 34 million euros in Arsenal, a football club with a turnover of half a billion euros, to promote luxury tourism to Rwanda. We can ask ourselves serious questions. Although the Rwandan economy is still growing, it remains dependent on development aid. Rwanda receives around EUR 24 million a year from our country. Has the new cooperation agreement with Rwanda been discussed in the talks between the government and President Kagame? If so, what is the progress of the bilateral cooperation agreement? What are the priorities for Belgium in that agreement? Does the agreement explicitly include a section on human rights and democracy that is a precarious issue in Rwanda? The Development Policy Paper states that the condition for cooperation is the organisation of credible elections. How do you rhyme with the last election? How do you respond to the decision to invest 34 million euros in Arsenal? How do you estimate the democratic nature of that decision? On behalf of Belgium, as a donor of development aid, will you ask for responsibility for such an investment? How do you estimate the aid dependence of Rwanda at the moment? How do you rhyme with the big investment in Arsenal?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u33	The Great Lakes region is a priority region for Belgian development cooperation. The situation in Rwanda remains fragile. Social conditions are difficult, despite relative political stability and economic growth in Rwanda. Although progress is being made in terms of socio-economic indicators, it is also characterised by a lack of openness in the public and political area. In addition, there is still a great deal of inequality in the country and Rwanda must continue its efforts to combat poverty and increase social equality. The Rwanda Development Board, the public authority responsible for attracting investment and promoting tourism, has concluded a three-year partnership with the British football club Arsenal. In addition to shirtsponsoring, players from various Arsenal teams will visit Rwanda within that partnership. Arsenal football trainers will also develop various football activities for Rwandan youth. These initiatives are in line with the greater role played by tourism in the Rwandan economy. Rwanda wishes to develop its tourism industry further. Promotion and marketing are part of this. Rwanda therefore sees the partnership with Arsenal as an investment contributing to the reputation of Rwanda as a tourist destination and thus to the further development of the country. Tourism is already the largest source of Rwanda's foreign exchange income. In 2017, tourism accounted for 450 million dollars in income. Rwanda wants to double its revenues from the tourism sector by 2024. Rwanda's strategy is not without success. The number of international visitors reached Rwanda doubled between 2010 and 2015 to 1.3 million. Tourism revenues have increased from USD 202 million in 2010 to USD 450 million in 2017. I see no reason to question this decision. Rwanda is an autonomous state which is itself responsible for its economic strategy. Is sponsoring a football club the best choice? I do not have an answer to that and I do not have to answer it. Rwanda clearly has a conscious strategy and this sponsorship is part of it. If donor countries get involved, it smells like a certain paternalism. It is their money and that money does not come from us because we do not give general budget assistance to Rwanda. Rwandan tax revenues increase significantly, from 391 billion Rwandan francs in 2010 to 1.2 billion Rwandan francs in 2017. This is a threefold increase, indicating more own resources and a reduction in aid dependence. When presenting the budget for 2018 and 2019, the Rwandan Minister of Finance and Economic Planning informed that 84 percent of the government budget will be financed by domestic revenue. Prime Minister Michel discussed bilateral relations between Belgium and Rwanda and the preparation of a new cooperation programme with the Rwandan President Paul Kagame. The first phase of the preparation of the new cooperation programme with Rwanda consisted of drawing up an instruction letter which translated development cooperation priorities into the context of a partner country. Taking into account the Rwandan priorities, I have delivered an instruction letter to Enabel. It is now up to Enabel to develop a country strategy and portfolio. The priorities for the new cooperation programme are not based on a traditional sector approach but on the main challenges identified by our Embassy in Kigali for Rwanda, in particular population growth, employment, the private sector and women's rights. It examines where the Belgian assets can best bring about a change. These are then developed selectively for certain sectors in order to maximise the impact on the population. The three proposed sectors are health, agriculture and urbanisation and urban infrastructure. In all sectors, priority will be given to three transversal themes, in particular gender, private sector development and accountability. When drawing up the programme, attention will be paid to the way in which the Rwandan government accounts for its citizens, both from the government itself and from civil society organisations. The choice of accountability as a focus is innovative, in line with the sustainable development objective 16 and aims to increase the scope for independent and quality accountability mechanisms. The nature of the Rwandan regime will be fully taken into account in the development of the cooperation programme. For example, there can be no question of budgetary aid and of strengthening public capacity. Belgium continues to work with Rwanda for the sake of the country's development results, but we are far from blind to what is going wrong in terms of democratic space and human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u34	Thank you, Minister. It is, of course, commendable that President Kagame is trying to promote his country, Rwanda, in order to attract international investment. We continue to ask ourselves whether this is the best way. It is also a question of how this decision was made. It's an open secret that the president is a great supporter of Arsenal's may, I wish him a lot of pleasure in doing so, but perhaps the perception that this is a subjective choice arises. You yourself indicated that there is a lack of openness in public space. This appears to have been subjectivity, too, when it comes to public expenditure. Of course, that's something else. The question of public procurement, the fight against corruption and the construction of a neutral government can then be raised. International investors like to have security on such points. We wanted to make this point in particular: of course it is good to attract international investors, but we have doubts as to whether the right message is being sent here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u35	Minister, we must have the courage to speak. If tourism is to be attracted in relation to the UK, has it been discussed? Is the best way to finance the football club that one is a supporter of? I have big questions about that. I also wonder how the United Kingdom has reacted to this. I don't know if you have any information on that? Has the United Kingdom recommended this to attract tourism in this way? I suppose there are other, more effective ways to go to Rwanda. What should Manchester United and Chelsea supporters do that might not be found for Arsenal? I wonder whether this is the right way to attract tourism and whether there was no better way to support sport in Rwanda. Sports is a great deal possible. A lot is also possible through exchange between football clubs. But I don't think shirtsponsoring is the right way to go. I keep asking myself many questions. It is, of course, a good thing that you are asking questions about democratic space and about accountability to the people. I think it's very original that you dare to do this. I am very curious to see how this will happen and which experts will be involved. Will it be done via Enabel, or through multilateral organisations? This could be a test case to apply it in other countries, whether fragile or not, and to extend the democratic space there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u36	Minister, Mozambique has been a partner country in our development cooperation since 2001. Recently, the Islamic group aI-Shabaab, not to be confused with the Somali organisation, carried out an attack in the village of Monjane and beheaded a dozen people, including children. The government is trying to do everything in its power to deal with this organization, but the attacks seem to continue. Minister, is the organisation aI-Shabaab also active in regions where there are projects of our actors? In what way do our actors seek to combat this radical idea in Mozambique? What are the expectations of our diplomatic post on the ground about the situation in the country? Is there a chance of further proliferation of radicalisation, as in some other Sahel countries, and why or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u37	According to the Belgian diplomatic office in Maputo, the Islamic group al-Shabaab is not active in the regions where projects are carried out by Belgian development cooperation actors. There have been violent and murderous incidents in the province of Cabo Delgado since October 2017. These violent incidents have mainly occurred at the border with Tanzania. Only part of those incidents were claimed by the al-Shabaab group. The border region between Tanzania and Mozambique is characterised by the presence of illicit trafficking in ivory, heroin and ruby. There is often a link between such illegal tramps and the presence of radical groups. The analysis of the Belgian diplomatic office in Maputo shows that the poverty rate in the province concerned, the presence of radical religious groups on both sides of the border, the great distance from the capital Maputo and the opportunities for smuggling in that border area often give rise to the development of various criminal groups, including radical religious activists. It is also expected that logistical and administrative centres will be developed in that region for the exploitation of one of the world's most important liquid gas stocks by 2025, so that criminal groups try to integrate. That is one of the reasons why the Mozambican authorities have agreed with the Tanzanian government to strengthen police and judicial cooperation in that border region. South Africa is also concerned by this situation because of heroin smuggling through Mozambique as a transit country to South Africa. The Belgian diplomatic office in Maputo is part of the diplomatic contact group on security set up in October 2017 which brings together diplomatic representations from the European Member States, the United States Embassy and representatives of the United Nations organisations on a regular basis. In addition, the travel advice for Mozambique was recently amended.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. We see this illegal traffic not only in Mozambique but also in Sahel countries such as Mali. That kind of organisation uses that to sow terror among the population. Since the end of the civil war, there has been a fragile peace in Mozambique and we must continue to follow the phenomenon very closely. We must be aware of the possible causes of public discontent. Such matters must therefore be taken into account in the analyses we make in the preparation of programmes for cooperation with these countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u39	Minister, from 22 to 28 July 2018, AIDS 2018, one of the most important international AIDS conferences, will be held in Amsterdam. The conference takes stock of progress in tackling HIV worldwide. It will also discuss the additional efforts needed to reduce the 1.8 million annual new infections and the 1 million HIV-related deaths. Despite the progress made worldwide, the challenge remains great and the human cost remains dramatic. For example, in about half of Belgian partner countries there is a generalised HIV epidemic. Girls and young women in particular are particularly vulnerable to HIV. About 18 000 participants from all over the world are expected at AIDS 2018. Among the participants we include human rights activists, academics, health workers and policy makers. Several countries send ministerial delegations or a delegation with top officials and experts. I have the following questions, Minister. Will the Belgian Government send an official delegation to the International AIDS Conference? What is your involvement and that of your administration in the preparation and follow-up of the international conference? Since girls and young women are very vulnerable and you have nevertheless launched the She Decides campaign, I wonder whether this will also be discussed at the conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u40	Ms Pehlivan, if possible, a staff member of the administration will participate in the AIDS 2018 conference in Amsterdam. It must be said that at the end of July, when the conference continues, there are a lot of staff on holiday, but we are going to do our best to ensure that there is a Belgian representation on the ground. In the event of participation, the Belgian delegation will certainly testify to the Belgian policy in this area and of course we will also refer to the broad approach we advocate in the She Decides initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u41	Minister, I hope, as I have said, that someone can be present at the conference to defend our position. The fight against AIDS may have shifted more to the background, but that does not mean that it is won or over for the victims. The eradication of this terrible disease is still an important issue, especially in the fragile states where there is a high level of contagion and where our development cooperation is active.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u42	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Vriendt's question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u43	Madam President, Minister, the European migration policy in North Africa has proved to be the low point of European foreign and development policy on several occasions. The way in which people are treated whose only crime is to try to migrate to Europe is all too often unworthy of humanity. African migrants who were able to testify about their treatment by Libyan militias speak of a true terror policy with violence, sexual abuse and exploitation on a large scale. Nevertheless, despite the irrefutable evidence of these violations of human rights, cooperation with Libyan militias and coastguards is an important pillar of European migration policy, despite the fact that almost all civil society organisations have condemned these practices. Leading think tanks such as ECPDM and the Clingendael Institute have also repeatedly underlined the negative impact of this policy on EU-Africa relations and development cooperation. The UN has now imposed sanctions on six people involved in the trafficking and abuse of Africans. One of the persons involved is an important figure in the Libyan Coast Guard, Abd Al Rahman al-Milad, the head of the EU-sponsored Coast Guard in Zawiyah. He's taking advantage of his position to violently eliminate his competition, kidnap people and even operate as a human smuggler. Minister, European support for the Libyan Coast Guard comes for a significant part of the EU Emergency Trust Fund which, as you know, comes from European development funds and has also been supplemented by a voluntary Belgian contribution from your budget. I think it's about ten million, but I'm not sure. Will the support to the Libyan Coast Guard be subject to greater control? What measures will you require to ensure that European and Belgian development funds do not fall into the hands of criminals of this kind?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u44	Madam President, Belgium fully supports the initiatives aimed at combating all forms of impunity vis-à-vis migrants. For example, the investigation, opened by the International Criminal Court at the end of 2017, on crimes, torture, kidnapping and sexual violence against migrants in Libya. The recent adoption by the UN Security Council of sanctions against six people involved in trafficking in human beings is a clear signal and a scoop that Belgium welcomes very positively. The capacity enhancement of the Libyan Coast Guard is part of one of the programmes approved under the North Africa branch of the Emergency Trust Fund for Stability to address root causes of irregular migration and displacement in Africa, with a view to supporting an integrated policy of borders and migration flows in Libya. On the occasion of the adoption of the programme, Belgium, supported by other European Member States, clearly expressed the need for an approach that promotes full respect for human rights and takes into account the do-no-harm principle. Belgium has also asked for a share of accountability to be included in the follow-up of activities linked to the provision and use of equipment and the training of coastguards. Finally, our country has advocated a follow-up system under the leadership of a third party from the launch of the project. The European Commission has taken account of these questions, which will allow greater control of such programmes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am aware that an evaluation of the EU Emergency Trust Fund will be released after the summer. That document is important. We shall therefore discuss this in detail in committee. However, this does not prevent us from responding to proven abuses. These are people who have been sentenced by the UN to human trafficking, abuse and violence and who are on the European payroll. Such figures play a major role in Europe's credibility towards tackling migration. You have already announced stricter controls. We will have to follow the situation closely. The migrants concerned are already in a very desperate situation, but the fact that money is being used by Europe is also unworthy of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u46	I shall first give the floor to Mrs Pehlivan and let Mrs Grovonius know that her question is being addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u47	Madam President, Minister, there is a great deal of pressure in the European Commission about the implementation of European development budgets. The first proposals made by the European Commission, which have been made public, shed light on the vision and objectives that are being pursued. It is striking that the proposal differs considerably from what was previously used as a standard and rule. Human development, gender and SDGs appear to be absent from the European Commission's proposal. The approach previously adopted, based on principles and on the autonomy of aid, appears to be abandoned. Instead, we are given an interpretation which puts the Member States' interest in general foreign policy first. Help and cooperation are now being placed underneath. Securing borders and reducing migration are clearly more important than development cooperation. Development cooperation seems to be fully at the service of the migration focus. The practices of the Emergency Trust Fund have proved to be a source of inspiration for the whole policy. Minister, it is a pity that the new focus in the proposal is so different from the European Consensus on Development, with great attention being paid to gender issues and access to health care. Moreover, with the greater focus on the regions, it is unlikely that sexual rights and reproductive health will play as prominent a role as today. In view of what is happening at European level with the resources and investments that will be made available in the future, I have the following questions. What has been the Belgian contribution to the debates on the future European development budget so far? Why are the SDGs no longer the guiding principles of European development policy just two and a half years after their introduction? How will you promote She Decides in the debates that will continue on future European development policy? For you, She Decides is one of the projects with which you have come out prominently. So you will have to try to deal with it in a different way. How will you deal with the pressure of the conservative forces who oppose the importance of gender issues?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u48	Madam President, Minister, the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2021-2027 are ongoing. This may also be discussed at the European Council of Heads of Government on 28 and 29 June. So it is time to get a state of play on the ongoing negotiations, including from the Belgian Department of Development Cooperation. It is good that the budget for the multiannual financial framework is increasing. For example, almost EUR 90 billion would be set aside for the development of the African neighbours of Europe and Central Africa. There would be a pot of EUR 11 billion for emergency humanitarian aid. Federica Mogherini can therefore say that she has increased the budget by 30%. The question is what is the content of this budget and whether it is in line with development cooperation as set out in the 2030 agenda and the European Consensus on Development. There is, after all, a trend, for which we must be vigilant. More and more of the money for development cooperation needs to go to combating migration. The budget for border management, migration and asylum triples and a significant buffer is introduced into the budget to finance ad hoc issues such as migration deals. What attitude does Belgium take in the negotiations on the future European development budget? What priorities does Belgium propose in these negotiations? How do you look at the trend to keep large parts of the development budget available for combating migration and border management? How does this fit into SDGs and human development?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u49	Madam President, Minister, on Wednesday 2 May 2018, the European Commission published its proposal for the future European budget (2021-2027). In this context, the Commission proposes a major modernisation and restructuring of external action instruments to exploit synergies. A first analysis at this stage may lead us to fear that the EU's overall foreign and security policy strategy will take precedence over the development commitments made under Agenda 2030. The Commission's proposal includes a single financial instrument for all external action, now called "Instrument for Neighbourhood, Development and International Cooperation". This would be the main instrument of the European Union's development aid. It would have an envelope of EUR 89.5 billion and thus merge twelve existing instruments. Such a merger of twelve instruments would bring together development, neighbourhood and foreign affairs policies under the same roof. The merger of such a range of different policies would dilute their distinct objectives. Without safeguards, there is therefore a risk that this single instrument will make development cooperation subject to broader external relations objectives. In the end, the European Co-operation budgets, which would normally contribute to sustainable development and poverty eradication, could be put under considerable pressure. Finally, the Commission's proposal makes no specific reference to the amounts of ODA (Official Development Assistance). The proposal increases the amount of funds allocated to foreign policy, but when it comes to development aid, there is no specific amount. Minister, in the negotiations on the future Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) of the European Union, will Belgium ensure that the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and Agenda 2030 are at the heart of the MFF? Will Belgium also ensure that the amounts of official development assistance are strictly determined in advance so that they are not instrumentalised and that they are significantly increased in order to contribute to the SDGs and comply with the Member States' commitment to allocate 0.7% of their GNI to ODA?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u50	The first proposals of the European institutions on the broad guidelines of the future multiannual financial framework 21-27 were published on 2 May. Since then, more details have been provided on 14 June. The first debates on the content, the amendments from the Council only begin now. I also believe that the 2030 Agenda should be more visible, as well as the sustainable development goals. The European institutions have already been asked about this. As this remark is shared by a large number of countries, I am quite confident that it will be taken into account. There is indeed an indication of the amount of ODA in this new instrument. 92% of expenditure will have to meet the OECD ODA criterion. This 92% will therefore amount to approximately EUR 82 billion, which represents a significant increase over the current financial framework, not counting the percentages of other instruments, such as the humanitarian instrument. However, I would like to make it clear that there is no guarantee of the final amounts allocated, nor of the necessary arbitrations and compromises in the wider context of negotiations with the institutions and other Member States. Belgium does not yet have a formal position on the Commission's proposals on the multi-year financial framework. We are still examining the proposals. These proposals contain many positive elements, such as the proposal to bring together virtually all existing external instruments into a single internal action instrument or the proposal to integrate the European Development Fund into the European Union's global budget. We also like the emphasis on Sub-Saharan Africa, as does the great focus on climate change. However, we also have a few questions which are in line with the questions you are asking. In our view, the SDGs deserve a more strategic approach and we wonder whether sufficient attention is being paid to the global challenges in terms of gender, health, education and so on. The documents currently being proposed in the context of the future European Development Budget are proposals from the EU institutions and still need to be discussed. Of course, the final result will have to be a compromise with the right balance between the challenges and priorities of the EU. However, there is no doubt that women's rights, including sexual rights, will continue to be a priority for Belgium and that constant attention will be paid to this in the preparation of future programmes and budgets. However, it is clear that this will be difficult due to traditional opposition from a number of more conservative countries. The fact that the unanimity rule does not help this makes this problem even more challenging. However, there is broad support for this in Belgium both politically and administratively. We will approach this as a Belgian priority. Migration has always been part of the programmes of the EU's external instruments. Specific budget lines were already included in previous financial frameworks. Since 2015, they have received more attention. Public opinion has shown that more resources, linked to migration, have also gone to interventions. Combating poverty is seen as part of the fight against illegal migration. The present proposal again provides for a large budget for the issue of migration. The same can be said for the security issue. The SDGs also see migration as an essential part of the challenges of achieving a better world by 2030. Migration is all too often portrayed as a threat and placed only in a negative light. However, as clearly stated in EU declarations, well-organised migration also creates many opportunities for countries of origin, transit and destination. That is why we need to focus more on the positive aspects and create opportunities for legal migration, without losing sight of the negative aspects of illegal migration. In the negotiations on the financial framework, I hope that a good balance will be struck between these extremes and that external instruments will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u51	Minister, my reply will be brief. Your answer was long and I'll study it further. In general, I agree with the points you raised. I very much hope that Belgium will continue to defend our positions and that we will be able to make our mark in this respect. I also hope that Belgium will not make concessions to certain European countries with more political right-wing rulers. We will continue to follow this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u52	Minister, I too agree with your reply. I agree with you when you say that Agenda 2030 is not visible enough. That everything should be ODA-proof is clearly one of your demands, as is women's rights. Of course, it is difficult to get everyone on the same page with a view to unanimity. We can only hope that development cooperation will not become instrumental in view of its own interests, security, migration or other issues, but that the objectives of poverty reduction and Agenda 2030 will be followed. This is a concern that we must have today but which you clearly share. Development cooperation will not stop migration. This is demonstrated by OECD-DAC studies, among other things. Especially in the short term, this will not happen. So we better be positive about migration that can contribute something. The negative aspects of illegal migration must, as you say, be stopped.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u53	I don't have much to add. I thank the minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u54	Minister, the African Emergency Fund was established in 2015 to address the root causes of African migration. It consists mainly of recycled resources for development cooperation. EUR 2.98 billion comes from existing European development funds. For only EUR 413 million, we are talking about additional investments by the European Member States. There seems to be little logic in the distribution key of the fund. The Netherlands invests 26.4 million euros, Germany 157 million euros, France 9 million euros. Belgium's contribution amounted to 10 million euros in 2015. It is problematic that a large part of the budget would be used to pay border control and not to really tackle the root causes. In your response, you indicated that an evaluation of the fund is required first, before Belgium is considering investing extra in that fund. How did the decision to invest EUR 10 million in the Africa Fund in 2015 come about? On the basis of what logic has that amount been chosen in relation to the investment of other Member States? What are the resources of the Africa Fund used for? When will the evaluation be launched and completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u55	Minister, I am happy to endorse this. Critics point out that the fund is mainly used to combat acute symptoms and less to address the root causes. What is the reason for the fund's existence? What is the core task? What is your position on how it can work most efficiently? On which allocation was the EUR 10 million invested by Belgium registered? How does the Emergency Fund fit in with your vision of better matching emergency and structural assistance? What is the emergency fund's long-term strategy? When will the evaluation you announced start? Can Belgium withdraw from the emergency fund in the event of a negative evaluation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u56	From the outset, Belgium has supported the establishment of the EU Emergency Aid Fund as one of the tools for implementing the Valletta Joint Action Plan. In concrete terms, support has been given to the Belgian financing of various European instruments that feed the fund, and an additional voluntary contribution of EUR 10 million to the fight against terrorism and radicalism. It is a contribution to the core fund without the attention of specific projects. However, our funds are used as a priority for the countries of the Sahel, including Niger. The Emergency Trust Fund for Stability to address the root causes of irregular migration and displacement in Africa was established on 12 November 2015 to contribute to the implementation of the Valletta Joint Action Plan. It covers the regions of the Sahel and Lake Chad, the Horn of Africa and North Africa. Those countries were chosen because of their vulnerability. They are mainly countries of origin, but also transit countries and destination countries along the migration routes in Africa. 42 countries are eligible for the EU Trust Fund, including 13 partner countries in Belgian development cooperation. By the end of 2017, a total of 148 projects had been approved, worth EUR 2.6 billion. The Trust Fund has developed an overall response strategy based on four priority areas. These are, firstly, inclusive economic development, job creation and SMEs, vocational training, reintegration of migrants returning from the country of origin. The second priority area concerns resilience, food security, social protection, integration of displaced persons into host communities. The third area concerns migration management, capacity building in the areas of migration, asylum, return and migrant rights. Fourthly, the fund is intended to support governance and the rule of law, to prevent conflicts, radicalisation and violent extremism, to strengthen security capacity, justice and development, to combat human rights violations. The root causes of irregular migration are complex, diverse and often connected. They can also vary greatly depending on the local and national situation and time. Therefore, it is important to better understand them and to be able to provide an appropriate response in any situation. The global approach based on facts is therefore crucial. Consequently, Belgium attaches great importance to the funding of research facilities carrying out studies on the root causes of such migration, on the basis of which projects from the EU Emergency Trust Fund can be steered. In the context of the Rabat process, which follows the Valetta Action Plan, Belgium has called for a better understanding of the root causes. The European Court of Auditors shall carry out an audit of the EU Trust Fund. The report has not yet arrived. In addition, an evaluation of the instrument by the European Commission is planned in 2019. Finally, through governmental cooperation, Belgium spends EUR 43 million each year in the Sahel region. It is wrong to stare blindly at the contribution to a single fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u57	Minister, I look forward to the evaluation by Europe itself. These objectives are very broad; they go in all directions. It is therefore perhaps not surprising that only EUR 3.4 billion is allocated to 42 countries. That's actually peanuts. Especially if one only spends that amount on eliminating the root causes of migration, one can question the fund. I am therefore very interested in the evaluation of this, even though I think that a great deal of attention should be paid to the issue. Apparently, it doesn't have that much success after all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u58	Minister, Aquarius and Lifeline make it clear that the migration crisis is not yet over and that the European Fund is a good thing and even necessary. The funds must then be used properly and efficiently, and there are still some problems in this area. Our Secretary of State, Francken, has sketched a rather optimistic picture of the current way of thinking and working in the EU and, I believe, rightly so, fears major problems when there is no coordination. Here is an opportunity that we must seize together with the European countries. If it turns out that populist governments are more inclined to cooperate than the countries that are in favour of a strong Europe today, then it seems to me that it is high time to try to convince them of good coordination and efficient operation. If not, the prophecy of the Secretary of State may well come true.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u59	Minister, I would like to ask you about the dramatic humanitarian situation in Raqqa, the former Syrian fief of Daesh. Tens of thousands of people fled this northern Syrian city during the offensive that turned it into a phantom city full of mines laid by the jihadists. Minister, Amnesty, in a recent report, calls on the countries members of the international anti-Daesh coalition to redouble their efforts to assist the people of Raqqa, particularly in the work of demining and reconstruction of the city. Does Belgium intend to provide additional assistance to that already administered?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u60	Mr Crusnière, for 2018, Belgium will release at least 26 million euros of humanitarian aid for the Syrian region. Belgium finances ICRC, UNHCR, WFP, FAO and UNRA interventions. These include humanitarian assistance (education, protection of refugees and internally displaced persons), provision of basic items, medical assistance and assistance to mine victims. Belgium is also contributing to the humanitarian fund of Libya, Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq and Turkey. In addition to €26 million for the Syrian region, Belgium will also contribute €20.5 million to the global humanitarian funds SERF, SFERA and IRA in 2018 and to the overall resources of the various international humanitarian organisations active in the region such as ICRC, UNHCR, WFP, UNRA and OCHA for €30 million. For the moment, no additional specific aid is foreseen for Raqqa, but the budget for 2018 is not yet fully allocated. Humanitarian funding is provided on the basis of a comprehensive analysis of humanitarian needs in the world. Finally, the European and Belgian positions are clear: there can be no aid for reconstruction until there is a credible political transition under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic935x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answers. We must pay attention to the political situation, I do not disagree, but it is time to work for this famous 3D strategy. We have been very active in defence and diplomacy, but now cooperation must take over to rebuild this city and restore hope to the people to prevent it from falling back into a climate of radicalisation.
