ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that the Minister is not here. He's on his way, so I'm called in. I'm assuming we can't start this discussion without the Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u3	Mr. Chairman, was the Personal Data Bill (GDPR) not handed over to Thursday? I see that it is scheduled for the end of the session that day. It seems to me that he was supposed to be on the agenda tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u4	Mr President, the question of the availability of the ministers concerned had arisen in the Conference of Presidents. Contact was to be made with them and there was some doubt as to whether this item was on the agenda of Wednesday or Thursday. Has this doubt been lifted? There were two problems: the availability of the report...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u5	It's in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u6	...and the availability of the three ministers concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u7	It's also in order. Secretary of State De Backer will be here this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u8	It is not available on Thursday. The doubt has been lifted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u9	It is available on Thursday but we prefer to deal with this issue this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u10	This had not been decided in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u11	You had to see the availability.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u12	Will Mr Jambon be here too? There's a specific directive...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u13	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u14	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 629: Sonja Becq, Servais Verherstraeten, Raf Terwingen - 2193: Raf Terwingen, Roel Deseyn, Sonja Becq.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u15	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Sophie De Wit, rapporteur for Bill No. 3016, refers to its written report. Mr Stefaan Van Hecke and Mr Gautier Calomne are the rapporteurs of Bill No. 2940. They also refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u16	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, taking advantage of the shock wave of the attacks, the government therefore introduces two new systems of gathering evidence, which have been very controversial ever since: repentants and civil infiltration. I would point out that these two regimes have not been requested by the Attentats Committee. These two regimes, obviously, will be used to fill the shortage of men and women in our police services, in our intelligence services, and especially in the diversity of men and women. Beyond the potentially exorbitant cost aspects of these new particular research methods, beyond the difficulties related to the reliability of the information collected, beyond the disproportionate or even unconstitutional scope of the proposed mechanisms, on which we have discussed at length in committee; with my group, I doubt. I doubt the effectiveness of the proposed new measures. But I also doubt that our democracy, our justice, must see its values so shaken. We have indeed had very good debates in committee. Many experts have come to discuss with us. You know that at the request of the Socialist Party, we had an interesting exchange with a prosecutor and an expert from Italy. This country has quite an interesting experience of repentance. It served them in the fight against the mafia. These experts also highlighted the dangers. For them, this must remain exceptional. I am not going to repeat the debate we have had in committee. Those interested will read the excellent reports carefully, but my and my unanimous group's sentiment is that the proposed project, with such a broad scope of application, poses a problem with regard to the values – I will come back – that we have always defended in the area of justice. The government is proposing two new specific methods of research. The first creates the possibility of using a lambda citizen, possibly under a fictitious identity, to infiltrate a criminal network by allowing him to commit offences where necessary. The second creates the possibility of negotiating a drastic reduction of sentence or adjustments of sentence with a malfrat who would make substantial and revealing statements concerning an offence in which he or she has participated. Colleagues, is it of course that our society is ready for this? Is our democracy ready to engage in such compromises? Are we ready to admit that justice is negotiating with criminals? I'm not talking about transactions that make it easier to establish an author's guilt. I'm talking about a delation to satisfy a personal interest in the reward. Moreover, the Italian eminences heard in committee have clearly told us that we have never faced real repentance. They are not people who say: "My God! I did something wrong. I committed a crime. I apologize, and I'm going to help justice." Never! That is why we have changed the title of the project. It is no longer called the "repentance project". No, they are criminals looking for personal interest and not at all motivated by a desire for reparation. Are we ready, in order to obtain any useful information, to gratify this delation? Is it an acceptable price to grant a remission of sentence that undermines equality between litigants, and raises a question with respect to victims? I would point out that the system allows for a sentence that is not related to the seriousness of the offence and the fault committed. What is more, we have chosen, unlike Italy, to bind the trial judge through the agreement, which calls into question its independence and sovereignty. It is the negotiation between the prosecutor and the repentant who will set a penalty rate, which may have nothing to do with the seriousness of the offence or crime. It's unheard of! Does the potential added value of these measures justify a departure from the values that form the basis of our justice? These values have allowed all parliamentary majorities for decades to refuse to succumb to these sirens, in the name of higher principles of justice. Are we prepared to admit, with infiltration, that untrained citizens are brought into criminal circles, in order to investigate instead of our police officers? What risks do we take for their lives? What are the risks of double play? What hidden goal? What if it's someone who wants to settle his accounts or trap a competitor? Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a turning point in our system and, faced with the balancing of fundamental interests, as democracy evolves towards fewer freedoms, we are witnessing the destruction of our fundamental principles. We are facing the shift in the delicate balance between security and freedom, taking the risk of sinking into a state that no longer respects the fundamental values that we are, before you, able to preserve. Of course, these bills are linked to a difficult context. But it must be noted that the measures recorded are in fact never limited to the destabilizing offences of our society. As one great expert, Mrs Beernaert, pointed out, we sometimes face simple telephone harassment. For band harassment, you can use a repenti. In our history, we have always wanted to respond by the highest principles to those who, precisely, have no principle. You're doing the opposite here. We will therefore vote against these two bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u17	Mr President, today we are discussing two important new systems in our criminal law: on the one hand, the civil infiltration, on the other hand, the sorry system. That is certainly not obvious. We're all watching television, we're all watching shows, and that's where it all seems normal. One negotiates because someone has tips or information and reduces the penalty. We also see people going undercover, apart from CSI. We all see this on television, but we all know that reality and fiction are two different things, until society evolves in that sense that it may be necessary to take steps, even in the criminal justice system, so that the fiction of television can or must become a piece of reality. The first reflex and that is a normal reflex... I apologize, Mrs Onkelinx, because I have not heard your whole speech, because I sometimes try to combine my work with parenting. I'm sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm sorry. My little girl left with the scouts, so it was a little difficult. The first reflex is still, for me too, whether we should do something like this: are we going to introduce it into our system? As a lawyer and a lawyer, that reflex is easier. Some call that a corporatist reflex, but they always have that reflex a bit. We know, however, that today's reality is sometimes far removed from fiction, from the many TV-feuilletons. That reality is that a lot has changed in recent years. The methods of detection used to be fairly simple, but technological evolution means that this is no longer the case today. Regular phone taps are not that simple anymore: the bad guys have a lot of tricks to avoid being able to tap anything else. Ordinary observations can still be made, but they are smart and so it is not easy. In addition, we are in the Terro era. That should not be an excuse or a container concept, but it is a reality that we are facing today. It is no longer about the detection of thefts or other crime, but about very serious things that are driving our society to its roots. Our legislation has also changed. We have done a great deal of work, including in the aftermath of Terro. In this way, we have criminalised the preparatory acts. That does mean, in case of infiltration, that we are colliding with limits. These additional offences also make certain detection methods less easy. Apart from legislation and technological developments, I think it is above all a major problem that we often have to deal with very closed environments, in which it is very difficult to infiltrate. Perhaps it is also a good thing that we do not have police officers with such a background to infiltrate it. However, the researcher must work within the framework. The researcher wants to detect cases, but also avoid facts and is thus faced with limits. The information provided through, for example, civilian infiltration may really be necessary. Those are not my words, because my first reflex is that we should be careful, but they are words from the police, the public prosecutors and researchers who have explained this to us in hearings. I did not have the privilege to be part of the Committee of Inquiry into the attacks of 22 March 2016, but I understood from the reports that the hearings found that the current methods clashed with their limits. If we simply strengthen the current information work, it will not provide sufficient solutions. The report even states that the role of citizens must also be strengthened. It is also very important that human intelligence, i.e. human resources, becomes very crucial. In addition to the report of the hearings, the Committee of Inquiry expressly advocated the possibility of citizen infiltration, although this is essential under very strict conditions. As the Committee of Inquiry said, infiltration must be done in a balanced way with the necessary checks-and-balances. There are two aspects to this problem. The first is the principle in itself. It is a fundamental, almost philosophical choice as to whether or not we are going down that path with our system. The second aspect is that conditions and conditions must be attached to them if that choice is to be made. As far as the principle is concerned, I do not think that anyone is ready to jump into civilian infiltration. Even a party of law-and-order, like N-VA, is not hurraying. I believe that everyone also hopes that we will never need civilian infiltration, but that there is little crime and that everything is working properly. However, there is also the realization that in the current context it is simply no longer possible. Even if you are not happy, Mr Onkelinx, on the other hand, if you are able to obtain the necessary information that will enable you to take those responsible, bring them to justice and put them on their responsibilities, or better still, if it is possible to avoid facts, it will be worth introducing such a system. We are not the only country to do this. Many other countries have done so, and the European Court of Justice does not rule it out either. If we then choose the system of citizen infiltration, the conditions within which we are going to do so are very important. The necessary checks-and-balances are essential. As Mrs Onkelinx pointed out earlier, there are risks: double-play, one risks a citizen's life, crimes can be committed, criminals put in... However, when one looks at the design, one sees that ice has not gone over one night. It has been considered, hearings have been held and the draft contains clear balances and checks-and-balances. That reassures me, and I hope that will reassure my fellow Members. A lot of safeguards have been laid down. The scope is limited, which is evident. I consider the important criteria of proportionality and subsidiarity to be very important. There is a sixfold control structure: police, prosecutor's office, federal prosecutor, investigating judge, chamber of incriminate, the judge on the merits and ultimately parliamentary control. That's a lot of steps of control. A risk analysis must also be carried out, and the ban on provocation, fortunately, remains and remains. Very important, as the hearings have shown, is that the security of the infiltrator must always be at the forefront. Is it possible to criticize the system? Yeah, that's perfect. Criticism is possible and comments can be made, but many of these comments have been rejected in the hearings. In the case of both the civilian infiltration and the regret regime, which I shall be discussing later, it is very delicate that it should be followed very closely, that we should evaluate and adjust it when necessary. One can only evaluate and adjust once the system has entered into force. We will have to follow that up, but it is important that we approve it first. We must realise that civil infiltration will be an additional means of combating terrorism and serious crime. The most important thing I have remembered is that avoiding such matters is worthwhile. That's the bottomline, that's everyone's safety. Citizens' infiltration can contribute to the safety of our society. In addition, there is the system of the regret mechanism. That too is before the House today for approval. This fits in well with the civilian infiltration. Of course, it's a different story. We also see this in the television series. If you provide relevant information, you can negotiate the punishment, the prosecution and the execution of the sentence. We are introducing this system today, with the same requirement of proportionality and with the same legislation. This seems essential to me. Mrs Onkelinx, it is true that this is a risk. I must not forget that we are going to have to negotiate and settle with the Abdeslams of this world. Fortunately, however, this is excluded and this ensures the necessary checks-and-balances. Our criminal justice system is being developed so that hopefully it will be better armed against the current phenomena. I think this is important. I believe that we will have to evaluate the regret regime at a later stage. However, we did not invent hot water in this area either, because many other countries did it for us. I believe that there are balanced draft laws before us today. They are also delicate draft laws in which fundamental social choices are made. However, given the context and the ultimate objective, namely the safety of everyone, N-VA can support this. We shall therefore vote in favour of these draft laws.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u18	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will still allow me to use the term "repentis" – even if it has been modified in the draft – since it has been pointed out that these people do not repent but most often want to benefit from a reduction or a change in their sentence. This bill on repentance, as well as the one that introduces a new particular method of research – civil infiltration – are undoubtedly new weapons to combat organized crime and terrorism. The Attorney General and the Federal Attorney are applicants and the investigating judges see these new tools positively. We decided to link the two files. As far as the regime of repentances is concerned, while we have had new techniques in recent years – DNA, wiretapping, the exploration of computer systems – they are not always sufficient to bring the truth to light. Human testimony remains an important piece of evidence, hence the need, as in many other countries, to be able to use new devices such as the regime of repentance. Many hopes lie in the establishment of this new mechanism to elucidate complex cases in which there is little evidence. I'm obviously thinking about the Brabant killers case. Moreover, as the Federal Prosecutor pointed out during his hearing in committee, in very closed, almost family-like criminal terrorist organizations, this system could be particularly useful in gaining access to information from within, in order to be able to elucidate cases and bring justice to victims, but perhaps also to prevent others. Following the hearings of Italian experts, some wonder whether this system of repentance will be relevant in the matter of terrorism since the authors are motivated by a radical pseudo-religious ideology and would therefore not seek to reduce their sentence; and if there is information, it would therefore be worth nothing. I, for my part, share the opinion of the federal prosecutor. If this allows the prosecution to intervene earlier, if only for a fact, it will always be an undeniable success. This project is undoubtedly delicate. My colleagues Mrs De Wit and Mrs Onkelinx have said so. Mrs Onkelinx spoke of a delicate balance between two important values: freedom on the one hand and security on the other. I note that this project responds to it in the most balanced way possible with beacons. First of all, the scheme must comply with a principle of subsidiarity. It will be used only if the investigation so requires and if the other means of investigation do not seem sufficient for the manifestation of the truth. I don't think we're using this regime of repentance lightly here. On the other hand, the principle of proportionality must also be respected. The public prosecutor's promise must be in proportion to the substantial, revealing, sincere and complete statements made by the repentant concerning his or her participation or that of a third party in an offence listed in Article 90ter, §§ 2 to 4 of the Code of Criminal Investigation. This proportionality and legality will be monitored by the investigating court, the court or the court when they ratify the promise. The rights of the defence are respected. Anonymity is not possible. Statements of repentance must be corroborated by other evidence. The memorandum is in the repressive file and the hearing is open. Similarly, the repressive court will have all the elements to check the reliability of the declaration of repentance. I mentioned it in the preamble, it's a delicate subject. A balance has, it seems to us, been found. Adjustments may need to be made as a result of implementation. I am thinking, for example, of the scope ratione materiae which seems too broad, for some of them anyway. In the MR Group, we are now taking on new means and additional means given to the prosecutor's office to enable it to elucidate and combat crime from the moment when, as is the case here, they are strictly supervised. In parallel to this project, we are also voting on another project which is the one introducing civil infiltration. This particular new method of research has long been called for, in particular by the College of Attorneys General. They are confronted, they told us, with the limits of police infiltration for various reasons. For example, the federal police, among other things, do not have sufficient infiltrators with an adequate profile to integrate certain terrorist cells, for example. Problems of language and even origin arise. And when they have this rare pearl, it is sometimes impossible, if not often impossible, to bring it into a criminal environment within a reasonable time. Similarly, these infiltrations are sometimes simply impossible because the criminal cell is located in a neighbourhood where the people concerned have known each other for years. In addition, checks are carried out on new members, for example, in the case of Daesh, on the fictitious past that they would have made. Civil infiltration is then an answer to combat these cells from within. Again, it is a particular method of research that is particularly delicate, which is not without dangers and which, since it is not carried out by a police officer, requires additional control mechanisms in relation to police infiltration, but also strict conditions of application. Proportionality and subsidiarity are also important, as is the case with recourse to the regime of repentants. Civil infiltration is limited to terrorist offences and certain serious offences committed by criminal organizations. These are, as was pointed out in our rich work in committee, some of the most destabilizing forms of crime. Serious evidence of the existence of the infringements or their future commission is therefore required. Civil infiltration can only be used if the needs of the investigation so require and if all the other means of investigation do not seem sufficient for the manifestation of the truth. In addition, the federal prosecutor must give his consent to resort to civil infiltration. Clearly, the objective is to use this particular method of research in an exceptional and parsimony manner. The project closes the doors to the drifts that might result from this particular new method of research. Various specialized sections of the Federal Police are also involved in the establishment of civil infiltration. A risk analysis shall be carried out to ensure the ability of the civilian infiltrator to be engaged in the relevant file. Accompaniment of the infiltrator is carried out throughout his mission. His protection is assured. In addition to the controls applicable to police infiltration, the project also provides for a check on the regularity of civil infiltration by the indictment chamber every three months. As long-term infiltrations pose risks to the infiltrator to connect with infiltrators, investigators must have a close view of the case. Finally, the evidence obtained by civil infiltration must be corroborated decisively by other evidence, which is, we believe, the balanced counterpart of the fact that evidence is collected through the confidential record to which the defence does not have access. In conclusion, I would recall the example given by the federal prosecutor: if a civilian infiltrator could have been used, we should not have waited for the return of the returns to prove that Sharia4Belgium was a terrorist group and the federal prosecutor's office could certainly have intervened earlier. However, this movement is at the origin of the departure of more than 50 Belgian residents to Syria. We have to call him back. Certain of its necessity and convinced by the guarantees put in place in these two projects, our group will vote positively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u19	Mr President, I will make a brief statement from my seat, because I do not want to repeat everything that has already been said by the three previous speakers. I think everything has been made sufficiently clear. What I did notice in Mrs Onkelinx's speech is that she is trying to establish a link with the Committee of Inquiry into the attacks. Just so we're clear, that has nothing to do with this. Mrs Onkelinx, you even said that the spirit of time was being taken advantage of in the context of the attacks. As far as our group is concerned, it is simply the case that two new instruments are being launched here which provide additional means of finding the truth. Times have changed, which is why the instruments have to change to make that possible. My group is well aware that ideological choices are being made on this issue and that this is always accompanied by delicate decisions on new instruments, but, once again, the Minister makes a number of choices in criminal law that lead to the way forward for our justice system, hence our group can support them, especially because there are sufficient balances, as Mr De Wit has clearly pointed out. Mr Calomne has just referred to the balance of subsidiarity and proportionality, and we believe that this is sufficient to give the funds at least a chance. Sometimes one has to think, dare and do, and so does the Minister. It goes without saying that these new instruments need to be evaluated and monitored. This is of course what Parliament is doing: we can continue to monitor and evaluate adopted legislation, as we do in other areas. Reference has also been made to the fact that these are not new instruments, because in some countries they already exist. In committee we have heard an Italian professor or magistrate, who has given his story with the necessary Italian schwung, of which we are aware. Once again, the way in which these instruments, both citizen infiltration and the regret regime, are worked out, with the necessary guarantees and considerations by the courts, is a very good thing that should enable our rule of law to find the truth better and more quickly. That is why my group will, of course, support this draft, which will not surprise you. I would just like to point out that the ideal is often the greatest enemy of good. What is ahead may not be ideal, but it is certainly a step in the right direction, which is why I call on you to support the draft, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will follow Mr Terwingen's example and take the floor briefly from my bank. Both draft laws that are before us today deal with the regret mechanism, on the one hand, and the citizen infiltration, on the other. They are a result of a decision taken in the thematic Council of Ministers of 14 May 2017. Of course, this is linked to the fight against terrorism, but also to organised crime. We have the special methods of detection at our disposal. Practice shows that these are not enough to intervene at an early stage and to avoid worse. This is certainly the case when we talk about terrorism. On the one hand, these methods are not new. They are new to our country, but have been tried abroad, including in the United States. On the other hand, this has also been shown during the hearings........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ There is a need to prevent contamination and to ensure that the evidence collected in this way is credible. I know that in our country too, including my group, initiatives have already been taken in the past in this area. In our country, these methods have been advocated for decades. The ethical considerations that are being made today have been being made for years. These considerations were also taken into account in the examination of the draft laws before us. However, it has to be said that the evolution of crime requires us to introduce these special methods. The Committee of Inquiry on the attacks stressed that this should be done with the necessary checks-and-balances. A balance must be struck between, on the one hand, efficient detection and, on the other hand, the credibility and integrity of the government, proper justice, the right to a fair trial and the guarantee of individual rights and freedoms. All these elements were taken into account, which means that there are balanced designs in place today. I would like to stress that making the comparison with the United States would be a step too far for us, especially since in the US, detection ethics are completely different from ours. The police are entitled to commit crimes there and are not regarded or qualified as crimes in the context of their police activities. This is a bridge too far for us. That is an ethical beacon that we absolutely want to preserve. The right to privacy also has a completely different content for the European Court of Human Rights than for the Supreme Court of the United States. We have also paid the necessary attention to this in our participation in these designs. Legality, proportionality and subsidiarity do not apply in the United States, but are absolutely important to us when we introduce these methods. It has been sufficiently taken into account. Our group will therefore vote in favour of these proposals. We have also done so in committee because we believe that this is a new weapon in the fight against serious crime and terrorism. We are convinced that it is a balanced and proportionate system for better detection. Furthermore, we believe that the fact that supporting evidence or statements will only be taken into account if they are adequately supported by other evidence will contribute and will represent a step towards a substantive duty of justification in criminal matters in Belgium. I think this is very important. Today there is a formal obligation to state reasons, but no substantive obligation to state reasons, except with regard to the Court of Assisen. This may be to the advantage of the Court of Assisen, but I think the substantive justification is important because it can allow the citizen, the accused and the public to accept and understand a verdict or acquittal, which is very important in the rule of law that we are still in.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u21	Mr President, Minister, I shall begin by talking about the regrets and then expressing my view on civilian infiltration. Minister, I have repeatedly asked you, in the aftermath of the new revelations in the file of the Gang of Nivelles, to work out an ad hoc arrangement for the sorry candidates in that file. Every time you stopped the boat saying that your services were working out a general arrangement and you promised to submit the texts in committee during the Christmas holidays, which eventually became the Easter holiday, but better late than never. The design of the regrets was submitted later than the design of the civilian infiltrators, although both figures are inextricably linked. It is not uncommon for a citizen to be an apologist in the same file. I am therefore pleased that it was agreed between the groups that both drafts should be put to the vote in plenary. This also gives us the opportunity to put the scope of both designs side by side. We have to note that the areas of application do not fully correspond. In fact, a regime for regrets is possible for all crimes on the so-called tap list, while for civilian infiltration the same list is linked to the condition that the crime must have been committed from the list by a criminal organisation. The latter condition is not imposed on the sorry candidates, but we do not understand why. The idea is that we can collect evidence through the renegade to convict the other gang members as well, but when a renegade occurs in a file without gang formation, then the renegade actually confesses to a crime he committed alone, for which the Guilty pleasure still exists. In any case, for the same reasons as the citizens' infiltrators, we believe that the scope is too wide. We are therefore not opposed to the introduction of the figure of the regrettant, but we believe that the list of crimes for that figure can be much more limited and, in the first instance, limited to terrorist offences. Since we also want the facts of the Gang of Nivelles to be regarded as terrorist crimes, the regulation of regrets could also be applied in that file. We think it would be useful, after a positive evolution after a few years, to consider whether or not the scope can be extended. Now we are in fact running the risk of having to limit the scope in a few years' time, given the many abuses that may occur. We will therefore abstain in the vote on the draft resolution on the sorry candidates. Then I come to the draft on civilian infiltrators. Each expert in the hearings stressed that the introduction of the citizens' infiltrator's system is not without risk. Mr Van Linthout has expressly spoken in favour of the system in the name of the investigators, but he said that there will certainly be a wheel going down. From that point of departure, therefore, the Committee on Terrorism has issued a very conditional and nuanced recommendation on the introduction of the system of the citizen's infiltrator, which I fully support. I have also made the exercise for myself by checking the present draft law against the three principles put forward by the Committee of Inquiry. You also refer to it yourself, on pages 5 and 6 of the explanatory memorandum. In its recommendations, the Committee of Inquiry on the attacks limited the scope of the citizen's infiltrator to terrorist offences. By adding the so-called tap list, the draft law makes the scope far too wide. I therefore call for the scope to be limited to terrorism, for the following reasons. Firstly, according to the explanatory memorandum, citizens' infiltration must deal mainly with the shortcomings of the other special methods of detection. The explanatory statement shows that these shortcomings relate mainly to terrorism. Pages 14 and 15 of the pleading draw the parallel between other crimes and terrorism. Examples are also listed. Secondly, as Professor Meese rightly pointed out, the risks are much greater if civil infiltration were to be applied to other crimes as well. I refer to the so-called double play, which is one of the greatest risks in the field of civil infiltration, which the professor explained in the hearing and explained in note. Thirdly, the explanatory statement states that the application is very limited, because it is only possible for the offences from the tap list committed by a criminal organisation. The tap list is a list that lists a lot of crimes. It is not because we are allowing the tap for such a long list of crimes that we can go through that line to civilian infiltration, simply because it is also a special detection method. After all, it is also a special method of detection which involves many more risks. That is also why the draft law has repeatedly stressed the subsidiarity of this particular method of detection. The limitation to the criminal organisation is theoretical in nature and will have little influence in practice. The concept of criminal organisation is very vague and interpretable. After all, the public prosecutor is free to decide what qualification is given to the facts during the investigation and can do so quickly and very lightly, whatever happens today, given the many extraterrestrial sentences and clearances for that qualification in the proceedings on the substance. Apart from the other reasons for restricting the scope to terrorist offences, I am very concerned, Minister, whether the exhaustive list contained in the draft law meets the requirements set by the Constitutional Court in its judgment of 19 July 2007. Our group will therefore not approve the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will also begin with the text on the regrets, although both drafts are linked. Those links will be discussed later. Mr Minister, it is of course an important text which has been amended in the course of our work, including on the basis of the hearings and the discussions and, of course, not to be forgotten, also on the basis of our traditional second reading, in which, thanks to the good work of our Chambers, we can always make very useful corrections. I insist on emphasising that. After all, the work of our own lawyers in the House is certainly always an added value for our work. The discussion about the regrets is not new. In the 1990s, the idea of introducing such a regulation of regrets was already put forward in response to the inquiry committees on the gang of Nivelles and organized crime. A bill was also tabled in the Senate in 1996 by Mr Boutmans and Mrs Lizin, specifically with a view to resolving the crimes of the Gang of Nivelles. They didn't get there in the end. The solution sought at the time was also a temporary solution. The text of that time is very different from the text that is before us today. Politically, however, it has been a long time since thought about the introduction of such a system. Now, 22 years later, we will get to it. Once again, reference is made to the file of the Gang of Nivelles, arguing that the regime for regrets could be useful in dealing with serious organised crime and terror. I have also always stated that we are therefore in favour of such a system in principle, whereby people who can contribute to solving very serious crime should be given the opportunity to do so, be able to receive protection and, in exchange for their contribution, be able to obtain punishment relief or any other measure. In principle, therefore, we would like to join the discussion. However, there are a number of reservations. That is why we have not been able to support the text on the regrets and to abstain, as we will do during the plenary vote. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our main objection concerns the list of crimes on which the regrettant can make statements. Previous speakers have already mentioned it, it is actually the reference to Article 90ter, § 2, 3 and 4 of the Code of Criminal Procedure which is a problem. It is very unfortunate that more and more legislation is always referring to that Article 90b. That article was drawn up at the time, and has since been amended several times, to list the types of crimes for which a telephone tap is possible. That list is valuable for what it has been drawn up for, namely to see what kind of crimes one can ask for a telephone tap for. However, there is now a systematic reference to it, and that is actually an easy solution. Mr Minister, in the explanatory statement and in the discussion, we actually agreed that when a new special investigation method is introduced, this is done with the aim of tackling the most serious crimes that really affect the foundations of the rule of law. Article 90b of the Code of Criminal Procedure lists 45 types of crime. They are much more than 45 articles from criminal laws, but 45 types of crimes are listed for which a telephone tap is possible. That list is therefore very extensive and much wider than the ideally limited list of very serious crimes which should actually be the subject of this proposal. Minister, I have looked very quickly this morning in the Code of Criminal Procedure at how often reference is made to Article 90b. I do not know whether you or your staff have done that exercise, but do you know how often that so-called passepartout article is referred to? You can sit 10 beside it. You don't know, but I didn't know in advance. It is referred to 21 times, sometimes for a technical reason, but often also because of a conscious choice, for example when reference is made to freezing funds in bank accounts, when reference is made to crimes for which one can enter a private place, when it comes to infiltration, when it comes to informants, when it comes to observation, concealing the identity of a witness, the detection of electronic communications, the system of threatening witnesses, etc. Then, in lists, reference is made to Article 90b of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This means, therefore, that every time Article 90b is amended, of course, the scope of the articles for which Article 90b is to be taken as the basis, is changed, and it will usually be an extension, because initiatives to shorten the list have never been seen in recent years. We have had the discussion, Minister, and between the first and second readings you have said that you will reconsider whether we can do anything else about the reference to Rule 90b. When you came back, you said to our great disappointment that you would stick to the list in Article 90b. You have referred to possible changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure and I believe that this is the ideal time to clean up all those references, but I fear that you will not submit your new draft Code of Criminal Procedure in Parliament within six months and that this may not happen until the next parliamentary term, if your plan is not buried. Minister, we want to do our best and we are prepared to enter into the debate, but I am simply saying that we should not load everything on the cart of the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure. If we manage all the difficult discussions by this means, then we will have to wait a long time. Waiting for Godot may be nice to read, but in justice we can't get anywhere with that. That is the main objection why we do not support this text. For the other comments, I refer to the report. There were discussions about the reliability of the testimonies, for which we certainly need to pay attention. We know from the testimonies from Italy that one must be very careful about why people give certain testimonies. I would also like to draw your attention to the practical application of this system before the courts. We have had a long discussion about when a case occurs and the consequences for the court that has to rule on the substance of the memorandum that has been concluded, when the memorandum is accepted or not, a new memorandum is concluded or not, when referring to another judge. So should the co-actors come along and so on. This may give rise to a number of practical problems in the field. The lyrics weren't clear. We were able to clarify them at a second reading, but I fear that problems may still arise in practice. I believe that follow-up and rapid evaluation are necessary in order to adjust in good time. Then I come to the point of civilian infiltration. I think everyone understands that it is not always easy for police forces, especially in cases of terrorism where it is very difficult to infiltrate organisations, for various reasons. It is a very difficult environment. There are insufficient police infiltrators with the right profile to be able to infiltrate difficult environments, not only in terrorist environments but also in other environments of organized crime which is very international. It's not easy. I therefore understand the concerns of the police and federal prosecutors about getting additional weapons. However, the question is whether civil infiltration is a good solution. We don't think so. Why has this proposal been made in relation to civilian infiltration? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the answer to this question is also included in the explanatory statement. The successive amendments and the intertwining of terrorism legislation have actually led to the conclusion that working with informants, persons who can provide information but are not authorised to commit crimes has become almost impossible because almost every act, every behavior, every contact with people who are members of a terrorist organisation has become a crime. This is also literally in the text. If one can hardly, or even no longer, call on informants who have provided a great deal of information in recent years, then one wants to go one step further, and that is the citizen infiltration. However, this method has become necessary as a result of the systematic tightening of legislation on terrorism. Mr President, before dealing with a number of risks associated with this method, I should like to make it very clear once and for all that civil infiltration is not a proposal from the Committee of Inquiry. Mrs Van Cauter has quite rightly pointed out that this is based on a decision by the thematic Council of Ministers. This thematic Council of Ministers took place during the work of the Committee of Inquiry. At that time there was a heated discussion in the Committee of Inquiry and there was absolutely no consensus on a recommendation for the introduction of citizen infiltration. The Committee of Inquiry has limited itself to the observation that the Council of Ministers had taken this decision and listed the minimum conditions if such a system were to be introduced. The Committee of Inquiry has never suggested or suggested the introduction of the system of citizen infiltration. In the discussion in committee, the Minister finally corrected that, but I heard Mrs De Wit make that reference to the committee of inquiry again. However, all Members of this House are well aware that this is certainly not a proposal arising from the work of the Committee of Inquiry. During the discussion, I discussed the risks in detail. One can refer to history although that is not entirely correct because there was no legal basis when one experimented with it ten, twenty or thirty years ago. However, we have experienced problems in the Netherlands and Belgium with de facto citizen infiltration. The fact that there is now a legal framework is, of course, a step forward but does not mean that there are no more risks. During the discussion, I listed a dozen risks. Firstly, the police can make arrangements but does not always have an idea of what the citizen is doing and of the facts he is committing. Secondly, one can cooperate out of self-interest, for example to eliminate a competitor. There's absolutely no way to rule that out. Thirdly, one can make money from it. That too can be a driving force. Fourthly, why does anyone want to be a civilian infiltrator? Perhaps there are people who want to do this to help the country or the police, but there will be very few who do this out of idealism. So they're gonna want something in exchange, reduction of sentence, dismissal of a particular file or maybe compensation. It's pretty obvious to the regrettants. There is a memorandum which also mentions the opposite, a reduction in the penalty or any other measure which can be enjoyed. In the case of civilian infiltration, this has been kept much more vague and other arguments can be used to get into that system. Fifthly, there is the risk of leaking information to the criminal environment. The fact that a citizen is sent and ordered to collect certain information in a given environment also means that this citizen knows very well what the police are doing and what kind of investigations they are conducting. Even though he may not know all the details, he is well aware of what the police are trying to do and what information is essential for carrying out criminal investigations. Sixthly, the risk of the infiltrator's safety. This is about civilians. It is said in the discussion that the infiltrator will be well coached, that scenarios will be drawn out how to act in certain scenarios because he may end up in very dangerous situations. However, it remains a particularly high risk. Seventh, what the civilian infiltrator is doing is hard to control. If crimes are committed for which no authorisation has been granted, the civilian infiltrator will not come to tell his communion soul to the parquet hall or to the police who accompany him. Eighth, the risk of entrapment. Ninth, in the case of terrorism, there is the risk of radicalisation through infiltration. Tenth, the risk of infiltration of terrorists into the police. Why shouldn't organized criminal groups also send someone to the police, as a so-called civilian infiltrator, to know what the police are doing? There is also that risk. 11th and finally, there is a general risk, the risk of the slippery slope. Once such a system is introduced, rather limited perhaps in the beginning, the urge after a few years will be very great to apply this method to other forms of crime. I know of the Attorney General who, every time they come to Parliament, will make new suggestions very quickly on how this, in their view fantastic, method could serve in the fight against more crimes. I believe this is a dangerous evolution. It is for these reasons that we cannot agree with the introduction of civilian infiltrators. It is dangerous for the citizens concerned, but it is also dangerous for the justice system and, in fact, for our democracy. It's delicate. We're about to step into an unknown world. For these reasons, we will not approve this text on civilian infiltration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u23	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at this plenary session we have at least the advantage of being able to discuss both issues simultaneously, which could not have been the case in committee. This was a bit of a pity because it would have been interesting that the consequences and conditions of these texts could be examined at the same time. But you promised us, Minister, that the two texts would be examined simultaneously in plenary, which is the case. Today, we are proposed to introduce into our legal and judicial system two new specific methods of research: the so-called civilian infiltrators method and the so-called repentant method, although we agree that the word is not appropriate. These are two notions that are somewhat alien to our usual and traditional culture of justice. But it is not because it is contrary to our culture that it is not possible to test the benefits. There is always a need to be open-minded about new opportunities, especially since the law must adapt to crime. And it is good, Minister, that you are trying to share with us your two texts by making a fairly regular reference, even if I have heard Mr Terwingen say the opposite, to the terrorist attacks that must be faced. This is the subject that comes back regularly: if we had had these two methods of research in the old case of the Brabant killers, we would perhaps be more advanced in this matter. Nevertheless, Minister, these projects are not without risk. As far as civilian infiltrators are concerned, infiltration is now restricted to police officers and the use of indicators is limited by the prohibition on the commission of crimes by police officers. Tomorrow, - thanks to your bill, to the bill of the majority - with the permission of the Public Prosecutor's Office, - it would be all that is missing! - a citizen may be used whose quality, competence or status is not defined too much, who may or may not have a fictitious identity, and who may infiltrate terrorist groups and criminal organizations by even going so far as to commit certain offences which the law specifies. Then there are the repentants. We are told that this is a way of organizing investigations that will allow us to gather the testimony of offenders who, suddenly, would find the memory, we do not know why, and who would "be at the table" to suddenly denounce the perpetrators of crimes and important crimes in which they have, very often, participated. Minister, civilian infiltrators pose risks to citizens, society and stakeholders themselves. What risks? Are we well aware of these? Have they been valued at their fair value? What are the risks to the citizen who has been asked to infiltrate a criminal group that can be extremely violent, so as to gather information that may help to unravel certain investigations? But at what cost? Who is this citizen? Is there still a classic citizen? What is its status? Who are these men and who are these women who could be involved in such an approach? What is their interest and how will they be protected? How will they be paid? We don't know, and we're not told! A form of secrecy must be kept so that everything is not vented before the system is put in place. Will it also be granted a blank-seing for offences committed, as in the register of repentants? All this is not very clear. What offences can be committed to obtain interesting information? What about innocent and collateral victims of civilian infiltration? How to repair the damage? Will there be any insurance that can cover this type of damage for both the infiltrator and third parties who may suffer injury? Isn't it also likely that there will be provocations in the head of the infiltrator? All these issues remain outstanding. I know that such situations make it possible to advance in investigations. But we need to be particularly careful, because it is not annoyed. I have heard Mrs De Wit and Mrs Van Cauter express, not reservations, but at least reservations. They say that we are at the border between what we can do and what we cannot do, between what is ethically acceptable and what is not. It will therefore necessarily be necessary to evaluate this legislation and possibly adapt it to what the practice of the field will teach us. Perhaps it will be necessary, but this demonstrates the extent to which we are in a limited and dangerous situation here. I come to the other text that is proposed to us, and to the notion of repentance. This concept also raises questions. Both Mrs Beernaert, who is critical in this respect, and the Italian experts we have heard in our committee, are asking questions about the name itself. These experts, who have a long experience of the notion of repentance in their domestic law, told us that there is no question of repentance. That's not how we'll get information. At best, these people will try to negotiate a reduction of the sentence, an adaptation of the terms of the sentence, or even find an opportunity to avenge a group or people with whom they had previously collaborated, or inocerate a form of amnesty. Nothing more! There is nothing ethical about what is being proposed to us. The Italians told us that, faced with the pernicious and major influence of the mafia in their country, this concept had been much less effective against the fight against terrorism. They explained to us that the concept of repentance works as long as we tackle organised crime in networks, the one that can be followed, which is structured, "straighted", which has its different levels, particularly in terms of communication and information exchange. This is less true for the fight against terrorism, which often involves small cells that do not necessarily have contacts with each other. That's the context. It is clear that the representatives of the prosecutors we have heard are enthusiastic about the idea of this project because it can be useful in the context we know. The special commission of inquiry following the attacks had also dealt with the issue, but at the time it was not able to decide or reach a consensus on the method. It is therefore understandable that the public prosecutor's offices are interested. The lawyers we have heard are much more critical. The main weakness of your project, Minister, is that it allows these two specific methods of research into a wide range of crimes and offences. I think our colleague Stefaan Van Hecke has just recalled this: 21 referrals and 45 types of offences refer to Article 90ter and paragraphs 2 to 4. I had the curiosity, minister, to consult this list briefly. Besides the things that your project could make sense for, including terrorist offences or the serious violation of international humanitarian law, it also includes the alteration of Belgian currencies, the forgery or falsification of stamps, seals and stampings, computer fraud, the deliberate destruction of works of art, the fight against hormonal or other substances... In short, you have understood this and, in committee, all Commissioners were aware of this problem: it would have been better to narrow down the offences and crimes for which these two particular methods could be used and used, which you want them to be proportional to the offence, the crime or the crime that is being sought. I think that with such a broad reference list or "list of listeners", the principle of proportionality is already being breached. It is this work that we have not been able to do, which you have not wanted to do in the committee, even if you have been questioned and have shown a real interest in knowing how to reduce better the circumstances under which the two particular methods were allowed, because you felt that this would enhance the interest of this text. Finally, you thought it was too complicated. Your idea has been to abandon the work in the field, the prosecution offices, the magistrates who may have to know about the results of these particular methods of research. In other words, let the case law do the work! I think that in these matters which are not anodizing, it is up to the legislator, therefore, to us, to do this work. It is not on the basis of what the case law will do that that we are doing useful work. On the contrary, we are moving a little further towards this government of judges or to this government of prosecutors - a more timely expression, I think - when we see the evolution of our legislation in recent years. The investigative judges who are wanted to play a role in these methods have also denounced the idea that they have to decide on a civil infiltration with the permission of the federal prosecutor at the outset. They see it as a way of censoring their work. Regardless of the extent and importance of the materials in which infiltrators and repentants can be used, it also obliges us to ask ourselves the fundamental question, which I believe has not yet been put to the rostrum this morning. Mr Minister, is this not another way to fill the police's lack of human and budgetary resources, which prevents it, in the context of infiltration, from doing the work for which it is trained, for which it has the assets, for which it has the knowledge of what it can and does not do? There would not be sufficiently varied profiles among our police officers. It was an opportunity, based on this reflection, to think that we might need to expand, find new profiles and methods of engagement within our police force, whether federal or local. Another choice was preferred. Having said that, Minister, it must be admitted that the debates we had in committee were rich and constructive, particularly on the second draft, that of the repentants. He's made some progress. I repeat: our critical criticism remains that the definition of the offences covered by the method of repentance is still far too broad. The list is not sufficiently circumscribed. The method is not limited to cases of absolute necessity. Nor are we certain to be immune from blackmail to testimony, nor that the person who gives important testimony can really be protected. We did not have much explanation as to how the protection of these witnesses or repentants is envisaged. In my view, if the concrete, precise and detailed answers had been given to all the questions raised at the time of our debate in committee, we could have considered voting in favour of these two drafts. However, as things stand and as others in this House, my group, Mr Minister, will abstain from both texts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u24	Mr President, I will refer mainly to the draft resolution on civil infiltration. Indeed, the PTB has some fundamental criticisms of this project. These criticisms concern both the effectiveness of the measure, its necessity, the weakening of the independence of the judiciary and the negative effects on economic law. 1. As far as efficiency is concerned, we have serious doubts as to the actual effectiveness of such a project. "There is no scientific research on the effectiveness of civil infiltration abroad", as indicated by Professor Meese of the University of Antwerp at the hearings. This one talked about the risk of double play. "People in the organized crime community have an interest in eliminating their competitors by collaborating in the investigation against them," he says. He adds: "The risk of criminal civilian infiltrators filling their pockets with a form of tolerated crime is real". To combat these phenomena, the bill provides for strict control and a memorandum that civilian infiltrators must sign. But, as the minister confirmed in committee, "there will be no punishment for those who do not comply. The federal prosecutor can only complete the collaboration." There is therefore a real risk that the civilian infiltrator, who was already a member of a criminal or terrorist environment, would manipulate the investigation. There is a significant risk of slipping. Civilian infiltrators also cause potential problems in the evidence they bring to the case, due to the danger of manipulation, but also because civilian infiltrators are not sufficiently trained to collect evidence. The problems of pro-active research and provocation were discussed in committee. Civilian infiltrators will not necessarily have sufficient training to avoid the provocation that remains illegal. Given these risks, civilian infiltrators can be very ineffective. We can therefore question their necessity. 2. In view of this need, the main reason given by the Government is that counter-terrorism laws have made it more difficult to work with indicators. This government has expanded criminality so much that, according to the minister, "it is almost no longer possible to use these indicators". To make a small digression, the government provided an overview of the strategies used by terrorist groups and organized crime against specific research methods in the explanatory memorandum. "These counter-strategies are rather effective," according to the government itself, "and would make civilian infiltrators necessary." Finally, it is recognized that not all laws on specific research methods, such as general compliance or the PNR (passenger name record), are effective. We therefore have the right to ask ourselves why they have been expanded. During the hearings, Avocats.be expressed doubts about the need to resort to civil infiltration. The organization believes that police infiltration and indicators are sufficient for the resolution of investigations. Mr. de Beco, who represented her, noted that in case of need of infiltration by a person who is not from the environment concerned, infiltration by the police may be sufficient. On the other hand, if a member of the community wishes to inform the prosecution, then he becomes a repentant. 3. My third criticism will concern the weakening of the judiciary. In this bill, the role of the investigating judge is, once again, reduced. Even at the time of the investigation, the federal prosecutor must give his consent when the investigating judge requests the activation of civilian infiltrators. This situation is, moreover, criticized by the Council of State and the Association of Investigative Judges, on the grounds that there is a reduction in the independence of the judge and interference in the powers of the judiciary. Of course, we are not opposed in principle to double control, which allows sufficient guarantees to be obtained against the abuse of such an invasive method. However, it is lacking in the opposite direction, since the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office may require such a measure without being supervised by an investigating judge. In this sense, there is no independent control of the judiciary, for example in terms of the proportionality of the measure. In addition, the federal prosecutor is still in charge of permanent implementation and monitoring. Therefore, if an investigating judge requires the use of a civilian infiltrator, he still loses control of the offences he may commit and thus also loses control of his own investigation and the legality of the evidence. 4. Finally, my last criticism relates to the violation of fundamental democratic rights. They are in fact put at risk by this bill, which accepts the use of civilian infiltrators in the case of many crimes. Thus, the scope of application contains all the criminalizations for which a listening can be arranged in order to monitor a criminal organization. As was pointed out in committee, the latter concept remains far too vague. There is a real risk that civilian infiltrators will be used for instructions on facts unrelated to terrorism or real criminal organizations. Similarly, there was little clarity on the proposals that the prosecution may submit to civilian infiltrators. First, there was no determination as to the amount that they could receive. It is also not known whether they will be allowed to completely erase their crimes (and which ones?). There is a great danger that members of the police or the Public Prosecutor's Office will play with the lives of citizens in order to achieve their goal. In addition, the information provided by the civilian infiltrators and their testimony will be anonymized in the proceedings of the Public Prosecutor's Office. However, anonymous information and testimony in a trial creates many problems for the defence, which has no real opportunity to do its job. Avocats.be also noted that "civil infiltration is like a slow drift, already underway, towards a society of delation, evolution, which is obviously undesirable." For all these reasons, we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the members of the committee, the majority and the opposition, for their very good cooperation in discussing these two draft laws, which I believe have led to texts which, in a rule of law, allow for rather special methods of investigation or detection to be carried out in the light of the principles that we are told are the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court. It is true, Mr Van Cauter, that we have not chosen the American road at all, but are trying to use a number of techniques in a very modest way. Those Members who are hesitant about the employability of such resources, I would like to point out that today we are in a society that is no longer tolerant of crimes and crimes that were relatively unexplained 30 years ago. In these circumstances, in which modern technologies and improved research methods are increasingly being used to detect a number of things, it is not unusual that we sometimes finally resort to certain methods of detection or research which have been tried to introduce years or even decades ago. The circumstances have helped, that is correct. Terrorism and renewed interest in the Gang of Nivelles have allowed these investigative methods to be re-examined. I do not think that these drafts could be blamed for failing to provide legal protection for suspects and victims. As far as civil infiltration is concerned, I do not know a single mayor of an important city that does not take advantage of the number of nationalities present in its city. From time to time, I hear figures of 180 or more. I do not even count the dialects spoken in some of these countries, without mentioning China, for example. I do not believe that the introduction of a method such as civil infiltration is synonymous with a lack of capacity or diversity in our bodies. I honestly believe that the qualities, knowledge and implications required are not always present in a police force, even in comparison with much larger police forces in cities such as New York or Paris. On the other hand, it is quite clear that the method of civil infiltration is not, in the first place, a question of terrorism and will not be limited to it, but is much broader. I would point out, however, that there is a restriction to the extent that the reference to Article 90ter specifies that this is only on the condition that it is one of the offences or crimes listed in Article 90ter "committed within the framework of a criminal organisation". I realize that it is always risky to involve citizens, in subsidiary order, in certain offences, in order to punish criminals. Nevertheless, I stress that six monitoring mechanisms are foreseen and that it will therefore be rare and exceptional for, for example, permission to commit a crime without being followed very closely by the police forces. I'll come to the regrets. Once again, I would like to point out that the regrettant is not anonymous, that the proof provided by the regrettant can only be a proof of support and will therefore have to be followed explicitly by much heavier evidence, that a memorandum as clear and legally clear as possible should align the limits of the regrettant's intervention and that the regrettant is punished when he makes false statements. Finally, I would like to admit that we are taking a leap here in what is unknown to Belgium, terra incognita, and that it is precisely for this reason that every year there will be reports to the Chamber and to the Committee on Justice in the context of an evaluation of both methods involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u26	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u27	We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 3016. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3016/8) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 3016. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3016/8) The title was amended by the Committee in draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure concerning commitments in criminal proceedings, execution or detention for making a declaration in the context of the fight against organised crime and terrorism." The title has been amended by the commission into a bill amending the Code of Criminal Investigation with regard to promises relating to public action, execution of sentence or detention as a result of a declaration in the context of the fight against organised crime and terrorism." The draft law has 21 articles. The bill has 21 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u28	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2940. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2940/11) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2940. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2940/11) The title was amended by the Committee in draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the prior title of the Code of Criminal Procedure with a view to introducing the special method of investigation for civil infiltration." The title has been amended by the commission in draft law amending the Code of Criminal Investigation and the preliminary title of the Code of Criminal Investigation with a view to introducing the particular method of searching for civil infiltration". The draft law contains 17 articles. The bill has 17 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u29	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u30	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: - 2848: Sonja Becq, Sarah Smeyers, Philippe Goffin, Carina Van Cauter - 2149: Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Carina Van Cauter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u31	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Goedele Uyttersprot, Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, rapporteurs, refer to their written report. I give the floor to the first applicant, Mrs Becq.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u32	Mr President, although there is a great temptation on the part of some people to let it slip, since we have been discussing matrimonial property law for a long time, I think it is important to clarify our proposal very briefly. The proposal has been drawn up along the lines of inheritance law, in consultation with representatives of notaries, lawyers, professors and colleagues of the majority, under the direction of Minister Geens. matrimonial property law is inextricably linked to inheritance law. We had to take into account the fact that much has changed in our society. The last time I was taught matrimonial property law, we sat together on the banks, Mr Geens, in 1976. Since then, a lot of things have changed and our bill is playing into that. Firstly, we want to provide more legal certainty. Secondly, solidarity between the spouses who wish to do so will be strengthened. In short, I would like to highlight the main points of attention. In our proposal we are creating more clarity in definitions, for example in the definition of own goods and Community goods. Those definitions shall be extended in the general provisions and shall also apply in parallel to the undividedness within the separation of goods. In systems of separation of property, there is also a very strong build-up of solidarity between spouses. In our law, we want to strengthen the protection of weaker parties. As a government, we have the mandate to apply this also to the matrimonial system, even in the case of a system of separation of goods, sometimes described as a cold exclusion, but in which we wish to give that care. The separation of goods is often chosen for commercial purposes, in order to prevent a person from dragging his or her partner into any debts if the professional activity turns negative. Sometimes a separation of goods is also chosen because one of the partners has a greater capacity than the other partner, for example, built up from the past. We are therefore also introducing a new system to facilitate the separation of goods with netting, similar to a Franco-German treaty. In the netting agreement, part of the acquisitions can be allocated according to a ratio chosen by the spouses, in case the partners break up due to divorce or in case of death. An important element of solidarity is the judicial equity clause, which we have also discussed for a long time. A balance has been struck between those who would like d'office to have a fairness clause in a system of separation of goods in order to protect the weak partner who we were in favour of, and others who believe that this is not possible and argue for a full free will. That is why we have chosen to give a very explicit responsibility to the notary when future spouses appear before him or her in order to clarify the possibilities in the context of a separation of goods to also build greater solidarity, on the one hand through the netting clause and on the other hand through the fairness clause, which really is about fairness, which must be manifest and a bit unforeseen when one marries one another. The present proposal strengthens solidarity and makes a number of concepts clearer, but at the same time retains a great freedom of choice for the spouses. After all, one marriage is not the other: people marry a little later, sometimes married a little earlier, perhaps have larger and small children when they get married again, so we have left a wide choice and have also provided for changes in the reserve for the surviving spouse in case of a second marriage. Finally, we are already building the bridge to legal cohabitation: we have provided that partners who live together and buy a home together can decide at that time that, if they ever marry, that is also part of their common assets. That is an important measure. In this way, they should not have a prenup, for which they have to go to the notary again, but can already be included in the legal system. We have had long discussions before and also in committee, which is important for the interpretations that will follow afterwards. I would therefore like to thank my fellow Members, but also all those who participated in the proposal in advance. I would also like to thank our spectators, who were very active participants: Mrs Casman, who did this without volunteering fees. I think it's important that that's possible. Of course, I would also like to thank you, Minister, who has made this possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u33	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this project highlights two rather different visions, approaches or values of inheritance law which imply that a balance must be struck between the protection of the surviving spouse and the right of children. The authors, as it was originally a bill, made the choice to confirm, to amplify a whole series of provisions voted a year ago. We strongly challenged these provisions because they were planing rights and the children's estate reserve, among other things. Here, by means of changes to matrimonial regimes, specifically the theory of matrimonial benefits, the situation of children will be further aggravated, allowing the spouse to have a predominant share of the family's heritage. In fact, it is now possible, also for spouses in separation of property, to attribute to the surviving spouse all the common property, by depriving the children of their reserve. If the majority of property is the common heritage, the children will not inherit anything at that time. Finally, history repeats itself but with different victims. There was a time when, truly, the surviving spouse was ignored. Then we invented mechanisms to protect him. From mechanism to mechanism, we realized what the experts called a real "toxic cocktail". Today, history repeats itself with other victims: children. I am confident that a mechanism will soon have to be found to correct the choices you have made. With the lengthening of life, it could therefore happen that, for thirty years, children have to wait for their share with the risk that the succession may also fluctuate sharply. In any case, the children will, at best, have to undergo a deferred succession. To try to rebalance, the bill allows the surviving spouse of the concrete reserve, the usufruct of the family home, to be disinherited in the case of recomposed families. This mechanism is also very special: we can reduce the usufruct on family housing by transforming it, in a way, into a right of housing for six months. The deadline is particularly short! Imagine the following scenario: barely grieving, the spouse has to evacuate the family home. In reality, in all this project, what is disturbing is the overt freedom that is granted both to disinherit his children and his spouse and to diminish their respective rights, ultimately leading to a situation that is totally unfair between them. The second major criticism relates to this famous "clause of fairness". It would allow, at the end of the marriage, to give the other spouse compensation if it happened, listen carefully, "a manifest iniquity during the marriage as a result of unforeseen circumstances". That's accurate, isn't it? No, that doesn't mean anything, and I thought that the law should normally be clear and precise enough to avoid subsequent trials. With a provision containing such vague notions, most of the witnesses heard told us that this will give rise to a puzzle in the courts and tribunals. The representative of the College of Courts and Courts even said: "Give us additional resources! We're going to need more judges because there's going to be a number of trials around these notions that's going to go on and on." So I'm not going to review everything, but the Avocats.be website has brought an impressive set of reviews on this fairness clause. The Council of State also... I pass, and the best. Another criticism that I would like to mention is that there is a scheme for life insurance but, unfortunately, it is not going to the end of the process since this scheme is inapplicable to group insurance and, more generally, to second pillar pensions. Finally, we fail to resolve an unconstitutionality already highlighted by the Constitutional Court. And, as the Council of State points out, there is a sort of unconstitutionality. That said, as I said in committee, the text also brings improvements, interesting details on marital status, certain property and rights of companies, compensation for accidental incapacity, etc. Certain provisions of the legal regime are applied to the system of separation of property, such as the potential allocation of family housing. A legal framework is being established for the Acquest Participation Clause, which is already being done in practice. But again, as the experts have said, you have worked in such a way that the notions are blurred. The project amplifies the legal uncertainty of this already complex area. In conclusion, I would like to refer to what happened in committee and which I very much displeased. Mr Brotcorne, remember: we come with a package of amendments, almost at the last minute, which partly change a law passed a year ago. That was regrettable, since it had not been possible to examine what the Council of State, witnesses or experts might have said. For the time being, the law passed a year ago has been the subject of training, while the proposed text is in the process of changing it. I did not like the way in which the discussion was conducted in committee at all. Since it was a text of the majority, which all its members held by the barbichette, it was necessary not to touch anything. When you ask questions, you sometimes get answers and sometimes: "Oh, that's how it is! The majority has decided." Is this a way of working? There were proposals for amendments made by the experts, which were relayed by amendments and which proved to be indispensable. Answer from colleagues in the majority: "No, no, we don't touch anything!" That is the way we are now working in this Parliament: there is a text; everyone has a finger on the sewing of trousers; we are small soldiers; we are voting. The opposition can say what it wants. Experts, witnesses, even university professors may say, no matter what, we don't change anything. It's not serious! The text before us not only breaks the balance between surviving spouses and children. But it also brings a great deal of legal uncertainty on some issues, even though it makes some improvements. Moreover, the work that has taken place in committee confirms a way of working that is unworthy of Parliament. These are the reasons why we will not vote in favour of your bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u34	Mrs Onkelinx, we have indeed discussed the various themes and also your criticism of the fact that, in the event of renunciation, the reserve is limited to six months. These are situations in case of second marriages. There's a big difference from second marriages. But people are not taking the step today because they want to safeguard the rights of their children. We understand this and therefore leave a free choice. Mrs Onkelinx, I would like to show you this with a concrete example. If you can give me another solution, you can do so. Imagine this. I'm getting married. I have two 35-year-old kids of my own. My new partner in the second marriage also has two children aged 30 and 35. We both have our own apartment. We're getting married. A house is chosen as the family home. The reserve will apply to that family home. In that house, the longest-lived person will be able to live to the detriment of the children, which does not apply in the opposite direction to the home which is not the common family home. That is a reason for many not to remarry, though they would want to. We have solved this obstacle by giving the proposed possibility, only in the case of a second marriage. Mrs Onkelinx, for the equity clause, we have indeed established that it has become a choice, whereby people will be able to choose and justice will effectively do its job, as he does today, when it comes to situations between spouses. You also mentioned insurance. I am going down the road a little bit, but otherwise we would replace the only inequality with another. A group insurance will be treated in a different way compared to a supplementary pension, both of which have the same finality. This is where the debate on equality and inequality arises. Finally, Mrs Onkelinx, we have held hearings. As a result of these hearings, the text was amended. We have tried to transmit as much information as possible to the site, through, among other things, the notary, in order to achieve a proper settlement. In fact, we hope that by 1 September we will have the right of inheritance and the right of matrimonial property in force, which everyone has also called for.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u35	I would like to start the debate again – and even resubmit a few amendments! – but I am sure that the answer we will have here will be the same as the one we had in committee: "We don't touch anything." We proposed to extend the length of the right of residence a little. Six months is very short to turn around after a mourning, which can be particularly difficult to bear. Is it because you do not like remarriage that it was not possible to change this six-month period? Nothing! And for the fairness clause, we told you that the Council of State and lawyers.be wondered what the added value of this clause was, since maintenance after divorce and the theory of unjust enrichment already organized more solidarity between spouses, with more legal certainty. You are intervening and I want to give one of the many answers that you have been given in committee. I tell you, what shocked me most was this inability to open you to the arguments of the opposition and the experts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have of course listened to the arguments, Mr Onkelinx. I believe that we have exchanged arguments in committee. It is not because we have listened to your argument and your views that we should necessarily have changed our opinion. If you make that observation, in the light of the reasoned answers, I regret that you seem to be unable to accept that we do not share the same opinion at all, but nevertheless to a well-considered...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u37	You know that's not true. We are discussing a number of projects or proposals for which you do not take our amendments. It is democracy and I find it normal. But here, it was really a "no"! Because of a so-called fragile balance, you didn't want to touch anything, and that's what was deeply embarrassing. I know what parliamentary democracy is and here it has not been properly respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u38	Mrs Onkelinx, I would like to comment on some of your comments, such as the relationship between the surviving spouse and the children under matrimonial property law and the marital benefits. We have not changed the existing balance with this proposal. The possibility existed and still exists to beg each other in the case of a marital advantage which married partners have built together. You are well aware that people often opt for the system of the separation of goods to protect each other. They want to protect their own assets and that of their partner, for example against a bad business or potential creditors. We have chosen to have the marital benefits granted from 1 September to persons who opt for the system of the separation of property, so that those who build a property together can take care of each other by means of a marriage contract, which decides that if one of them falls away, the last person will acquire what they have built together. That is a logical choice in the regulation as it exists today, and we have not changed anything about the balance. Nor have we changed the protection rules of Article 1464 et seq. of the Civil Code. When it comes to premarital property and non-common children, there is also a very strict limitation regarding the granting of a marital advantage to each other. So, Mrs Onkelinx, we have certainly not rearranged the existing balance in this proposal. Secondly, as far as the specific reserve is concerned, we have provided for the possibility of allowing people who may wish to marry each other at a later age to opt for a partner at a time when they have children who would naturally become their heirs, according to the law, without wishing to harm the children. That's their choice. They should not choose a clause or a clause or a prenup whereby they would deny the concrete reserve to the second partner, but it is a possibility. In order to avoid a situation where people who are faced with a death would then be in a difficult situation, the limited right to residence has been introduced. It is indeed a very limited right to residence, because there is a conscious choice of two marriage partners in advance of that right to waive the specific reserve. If one makes a certain choice, it is logical that one accepts it at all, with all the consequences of that. Thirdly, as far as the equity clause is concerned, if one wants to be sure of what, as a result of the dissolution of a system, is precisely the final responsibility of the other partner in the context of the separation of goods, then there is the possibility of opting not for the equity clause but for the possibility of a final settlement clause. The rules were then clearly agreed in advance. They can't be interpreted. What will the charge mass be? What will the key look like? I'm sure they'll know that in advance. That's for sure. That too is a choice that people have. One can opt for a final settlement clause, if one wants to assign part of the net acquired mass to one another. If one does not, one can still opt for the fairness clause, which is a safety net for unfair situations which might arise as a result of dissolution, together with a system of separation of goods. Why we have only dealt with the issue of the status of goods and individual life insurance, but not supplementary pensions, you know that very well. We have drawn up a scheme for individual life insurance, which is indeed linked to insurance law and not to the pension scheme. The pension scheme, not only for the second pillar but also for the first pillar, will have to be regulated within a different legal framework, in particular those relating to pensions. This was emphasised during the discussion in committee, Mrs Onkelinx. This is without prejudice to the existing case law of the Constitutional Court, which will continue to affect the way in which the second pillar pension is settled and distributed, including as regards the second pillar pension. Fifthly, you think that the punishment that has entered into force today, even before the law, is once again being changed in the law of inheritance. We have indeed chosen to do so. As you know, the reform of inheritance law was a very comprehensive reform, in which context we have worked as carefully as possible. However, the interventions of a number of actors in the field have shown that there were some situations which were not immediately considered and which were not included in the text adopted. I mention only one, namely the fact that as a married partner one can reserve the use of a property that is given away during marriage with a second partner, for example, to the children from the first relationship. This usufruct can also be continued by the second partner. We have not thought about this situation. We have not in fact thought of a marriage that preceded a legal cohabitation. In these cases, too, we could allow the second partner to continue the usufruct. That seems obvious and we fully support it, but we did not pay attention to it and we did not miss it. Instead of waiting for the law to come into force and the difficulties that would arise in practice, we immediately took the opportunity to solve a number of issues which would cause difficulties in practice before the entry into force of this proposal. I support this choice and hope that, on second thought, you will also be able to support it. Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their good cooperation. I would also like to thank the experts, not least Mrs Casman, for the assistance that was sometimes needed in this very technical area. I would, of course, like to thank the Minister, who gave us the opportunity to come up with this proposal which, hopefully, will solve a lot of problems in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u39	Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to bounce back on what Mrs Onkelinx has said in relation to our way of working in committee and also to bounce back on what Mrs Van Cauter has said. I think we are constricting ourselves here a little to absurdity, unless it is surrealism to Belgian, which would probably be more acceptable than talking about absurdity. From the beginning, we've been saying it. In these subjects, we worked backwards. The ideal would have been to start with matrimonial regimes and continue with inheritance law or to do both together. We did the opposite, starting with inheritance law, and then, a year later, we tried to reform matrimonial regimes. On this occasion, we are surprised and find that the way in which we have worked in the area of inheritance law is influenced by the reform of matrimonial regimes and we will therefore amend the succession law. I am not embarrassed by the fact that we are already discussing the succession law in the colloquiums. On the other hand, I have been very embarrassed and very angry in committee that we are already discussing, in the colloquiums, the law that we have not even voted for, as if it were already an achievement. In this too, it is contrary to good parliamentary work. It is to consider that – and I take up the expression I have heard in Mrs Van Cauter's mouth – the actors on the ground, because they denounce or point their finger at certain things, are more important than the opposition members can say. Yet, often, when they are in committee, they sometimes (not always) point at certain things that are not correct, that are imperfect or missing. I think that we have just taken a turn here, with this ten-minute debate, in the sometimes absurd way, in any case inconsistent, which we are working on in our committees. I would like to say this now rather than at the time when I originally envisaged it in my text. This reform of matrimonial regimes: of course it was useful, of course it was necessary, of course there was a modernisation of the texts to be brought about. The problem in this area is that, of course, at the time of the hearings, either we are very much in favour of the option that has been taken by the proponents of the proposal, or we have a lot of questions about the choices that have been made. It's all black or white. It's true that sometimes the truth is in the middle. Admit that in this case, some choices are really political. You mustn't be afraid to say it. It is up to Parliament to make political choices. We may disagree with the political choices made by a text, say it, want to amend it and then, democratically, a majority decides what it thinks is good. In this case, the big concern we have... I'm not the only one with it. I heard Mrs. Onkelinx. I do not have a word to withdraw or add to its fundamental criticism of these texts. The choice was made to favour a surviving spouse over children, to legally assume the protection of that surviving spouse to the detriment of the children. This is what the law does when it seeks to allow or extend to the regime of separation of property provisions relating to the property rights of the surviving spouse that were applicable to the common property of married spouses under the community regime. Of course, there is no concern about the abolition of assistance with ascendants, siblings, if the spouses are married in the separation of property and there are no children of the deceased. There is also no problem with the preferential allocation of family housing, furniture and professional goods. The real problem is the extension of the theory of matrimonial benefits to the regime of separation of property. The real question we could have asked ourselves is the possible suppression of the theory of matrimonial benefits in the search for balance. The balance between the surviving spouse and the protection of children often born from a first bed was the balance that had to be achieved and that was not achieved at all. On the contrary, here, the protection of the right of the surviving spouse, which did not exist before 1976, which was organised from 1976 onwards, and which was strengthened in 1981, is further strengthened. As part of the estate rights reform that we voted for a year ago, we considered increasing the quota available from the second child. The reserve executed in cash has already weakened the balance, which we denounced at the time. And, today, we end this breakdown of balance with the extension of matrimonial benefits to the regime of separation of property by saying, moreover, that we will consider them by analogy with what existed in the regime of community. In my opinion – this is my opinion which may not be that of the majority who supports the text, but it is also the opinion of the Socialist Party; I am quite happy to see that on a point like this, our opinions converge – there is a total imbalance between the interests of the surviving spouse and those of the children. In 1804, when the Civil Code, the Napoleonic Code, and the matrimonial advantages were introduced, it was precisely in order to protect children. Today, it is the spouse who is privileged and it is therefore the children who must be protected in the interests of good balance. We have therefore tabled amendments. I must say here that, in committee, there has not always been a great deal of interest in the amendments tabled. Sometimes amendments that had purely technical values were rejected for the good and simple reason that the political option taken by the majority could not be jeopardized. I discussed at length with Mrs Becq after a committee meeting. I asked her what was disturbing her so much in our amendments aimed at modernising the situation. She told me that in Flanders, things were not perceived that way, and I told her that, in my opinion, Flanders had made the political choice of choosing what the surviving spouse would choose, or who would die for the benefit of the surviving spouse, rather than the children. It is therefore a real choice of society that my group cannot accept. I am not saying that children should be favored in relation to the surviving spouse, but the balance that existed between each other has been so affected that today it is a real imbalance that is being created. In a way, and this is the biggest criticism that can be made of the text of this proposal, it is individualism that is favored. Individualism is, in my view, exacerbated in the way in which this text contemplates things. The child in a couple is a permanent bond. You can divorce your spouse, but you can't divorce your child(s). It is a reality that I believe is concrete and objective. Symbolically, the principle of making and keeping children as heirs may have a symbolic or financial aspect, but it is an essential aspect in ensuring that the bonds that we feel are essential in the society in which we live are maintained. It is the fundamental criticism that can be made of this text, dear authors of the proposal. I would add that regardless of the Socialist Party and the CDH, the website avocats.be says that the bill further aggravates the possibility of assigning to the surviving spouse a predominant, if not total, share of the property to the detriment of the children, and, above all, to the children of a previous union. Good morning to all the disputes that the family courts will have to deal with tomorrow in matters of inheritance and matrimonial regimes. However, other aspects of this text still need to be stressed: judicial correction in fairness. It seems to me that the idea is timely and excellent. But the problem lies in the fact that I am not convinced, just like other actors on the ground who may come to express themselves later – and we may correct the text after they have manifested themselves and not after hearing the criticisms of the opposition. The system put in place seems difficult, since the correction must be foreseen at the time of the drafting of the marriage contract - thus strengthening the responsibility of the notary and thus not giving this possibility to those who would not have planned to consider it, because at the time when a marriage contract is drawn up, one cannot imagine all the circumstances of life: in particular at the level of property, what will become of this couple, how it will acquire, how the family heritage will develop. It is provided for in the text which can be corrected when there has been a manifest inequities. Hello to the interpretations, which must be performed, of texts as unlegal as these! These are our essential criticisms, so as not to repeat the debate, which has sometimes been difficult and heated in committee. These two essential criticisms will not allow my group to support this text. We shall therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u40	Mr President, I will be very brief. I would like to thank the majority MEPs who have worked very hard on this and our experts in particular, Mrs Casman. It is important that a member of the government underlines that this bill is a faithful translation of the government agreement, which provides for greater freedom of decision and maintenance of solidarity and reconciliation of both, both in inheritance law and in matrimonial property law. I find it a little difficult to hear that we would have drawn the sheet in one direction or the other, and even more difficult to hear from a fellow humanist that we would have promoted individualism. The only thing I can tell you, Mr Brotcorne, is that the moment of truth in general is that of love or that where there is still love. It may be the time of marriage, the time of an agreement on succession, the time of the making of a will. Whatever! At this moment, we give more chance of freedom and more chance of solidarity. It is an ideological compromise, of which I am particularly proud. The discussions have been fruitful and I regret that some people have taken some personal refusals, but that was certainly not my will. But, I repeat, it was a particularly sensible compromise, of which I am almost sure you would have agreed if you had sat in the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u41	Mr President, just a small remark! I expected more solidarity in the head of the CD&V – and of what I still believe to be his ideology – with regard to defending the interests of the children, well understood, in relation to the interest of the surviving spouse.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u42	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u43	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2848/11) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2848/11) The title was amended by the Committee in its draft Law amending the Civil Code and various other provisions relating to matrimonial property law and amending the Law of 31 July 2017 amending the Civil Code as regards inheritances and gifts and amending various relevant provisions." The title has been amended by the Commission to propose a law amending the Civil Code and various other provisions relating to the law of matrimonial property regimes and amending the Act of 31 July 2017 amending the Civil Code with regard to inheritances and gifts and amending various other provisions in this field." The bill has 80 articles. The bill has 80 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip241x.u44	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday 18 July 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 18 July 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
