ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, On 21 March, after a lingering illness, Willy Cortois, Honorary Vice-President of the Chamber, died in Jette. He was 77. Willy Cortois was born in Vilvoorde, where his father was chairman of the local section of the liberal party and then ships. After his studies at the Université libre de Bruxelles, where he obtained a degree in economic science, Willy Cortois took his first steps in politics as secretary of August De Winter, Minister of Foreign Trade in the Vanden Boeynants I government. Afterwards, he became attaché to the Office for Economic Programmation and subsequently joined Gust De Winter, who had become chairman of the newly created Vrije Universiteit Brussel in 1970. In his home port Vilvoorde Willy Cortois, who had meanwhile developed a thriving import-export company, breathed new life into the local PVV department. His focus was on youth work and on the connection with the union and the health insurance fund. Willy Cortois joined the Vilvorde communal council in 1971 for the PVV. From 1983 to 1993, he was an alderman, first Finance, then Territorial Policy. It cleans up communal finances and lays the foundations for a policy of conversion that will allow Vilvorde to break with the image of an old industrial city polluted to become a modern and attractive municipality. As mayor, Willy Cortois pursued this policy unabatedly and ran his city as if it were his own business. In 1984, Willy Cortois succeeded his mentor August De Winter in the Chamber. Four years later, he became chairman of the PVV Group. He expressed himself as a passionate Member of Parliament, who took the lead in numerous debates, both in committee and in plenary. He was particularly active in the Committee for the Interior and, from his economic training, in the Committee for Business and also in the special committee on Globalisation. Cortois was also a member of a number of delicate committees of inquiry, such as the Sabena Commission, of which he was Vice-President. At the end of his term as chairman of the Flemish Liberal Group, he held several important positions in the bodies of our assembly: in the nineties he served as secretary of the House for two years and then as first vice-president for four years. He will then be a member of the College of Quaestors, of which he will be president from 2003. Willy Cortois was convinced of Parliament's vital role in democracy. He therefore insisted that the rights of Parliament and parliamentarians should be respected and that Parliament should have the necessary means to carry out its monitoring mission and give its activities the visibility they deserve. Very concerned about the proper functioning of this assembly and the correct exercise of the res polica, he was very active in the Special Committee on Rules of Procedure and the Reform of Parliamentary Labour as well as in the Committee on the Control of Election Expenses and the Accounting of Political Parties. Because he felt that the time was right to pass the torch on to the younger generation, Willy Cortois ended his 33-year career as a MP in 2007, and also resigned as a city council member in Vilvoorde in early 2008. He continued to work for his party, both at the federal, provincial and local level. Ladies and gentlemen, Colleagues, With Willy Cortois, we lose a passionate politician, a man who was committed to freedom and tolerance, and at the same time we lose a man with a lot of social feelings. In the name of the Chamber, I have expressed our condolences to his wife Marijke and his family and friends, whom I welcome in the gallery.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my dear family, I would like to pay tribute to Willy Cortois, a passionate and enthusiastic colleague of our assembly. I had the privilege of meeting him when I was a young Member of Parliament. Willy Cortois was a democrat who cherished his ideals and actually tried to convert them. Always convinced of the general interest, as an entrepreneur, he himself made the transition to politics, a stylist he carried out with great passion. Willy Cortois was a full-blooded liberal who valued our values and standards very much, but also a politician who was very socially committed. He had the necessary skill to compromise. He also listened to his opponents. For that reason, he was also loved in his city. Willy Cortois was a figurehead in his town of Vilvoorde, in his party and also in Parliament, and that is no coincidence. Since 1970, Willy Cortois served as the PVV, the later Open Vld, in the City Council of Vilvoorde. He later became MP and mayor of Vilvoorde. He was very involved in the fate of his city and the entire region. Like many of us, he was struck by the brutal closure of Renault, but he didn't want to sit by the suits. He sought support from investors to plant new companies on the industrial zones around the canal. The canal zone in Vilvoorde has undergone a true transformation and that is certainly thanks to its vision and its commitment. For thirty-three years, Willy Cortois represented his fellow citizens in the House as a member of many parliamentary committees. As chairman of the Sabena Commission, he managed to mobilise his colleagues to carry out an objective but also in-depth analysis of the cessation of the airline's activities. In 2007, he ended his parliamentary career and, a year later, he left his position as a communal councillor. While he continued to serve his party, he felt, however, that it was time to move the torch to a new generation. His last battle was his fight against a lingering disease. He continued to fight bravely, but eventually had to give up the fight. Willy Cortois was very popular and this is also evident from the mourning of many inhabitants of Vilvoorde. In the name of the government, I would like to express my condolences to his family and to his many friends. I would also like to extend my warmest condolences to his granddaughter, Lora Nivesse, whom I had the opportunity to meet, a few years ago, in the political context.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u4	At the request of the government, I propose that the following three draft laws be entered on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session:- draft law on the employment of foreign nationals in a specific situation of residence, No. 2947/1; - draft law introducing Article 175/1 of the Social Criminal Code, No. 2948/1; - draft law amending the Law of 3 July 2005 on the rights of volunteers, No. 2949/1. At the request of the government, I propose that the following three bills be placed on the Orders of the Day for this afternoon's plenary session: - Bill on the occupation of foreign nationals in a special situation of residence, No. 2947/1; - Bill inserting article 175/1 in the Social Penal Code, No. 2948/1; - Bill amending the Act of 3 July 2005 on the rights of volunteers, No. 2949/1. In accordance with the opinion of yesterday's Conference of Presidents, I propose that the appointment of the president of the Committee I be added to the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u5	Mr Calvo has the floor on the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u6	Mr President, you will not be surprised by my raised hand, because our group has been in contact with you through various channels all morning and afternoon, directly and indirectly, as well as with your services, on a number of topical questions. I note that the Prime Minister is here, but is actually a bit on strike, in particular by pushing away a number of important questions and not wanting to answer them. Mr Hellings had asked a question about the supply of chemicals, a debate that deserves a lot of attention, including from our Prime Minister. The international media have a lot of attention to it. It is therefore somewhat strange that our Prime Minister does not want to answer that question, especially since our group has questioned several trade ministers on this issue in recent months and found that there is clearly a problem of coordination. For my second point, I would like to address myself directly to the Prime Minister. You did a pretty good job on Sunday at the opposition in the hunting aircraft file. When Mr Van der Maelen and Mr De Vriendt raised a cover-up, you said that the opposition was fragile and weak and did not make any wooden arrows. I would like to invite you to be more critical of your own ministers than your government would function better and to attack the opposition a little less. However, if you have the courage to attack the opposition in television studios, Prime Minister, then today you must also have the courage to answer questions about the fighters themselves. All the groups have asked you about this. You said here a few weeks ago on Thursday that you, Charles Michel, the Prime Minister, would ensure full transparency. What are you doing today? You are fleeing because you are avoiding the debate, a debate about billions. My question has been put to the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister has to answer those questions about the fighter planes. He is obliged to do so to this Parliament, especially after the scene of the last few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u7	Mr Calvo, you have made your point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u8	Mr President, I, too, felt somewhat provoked by the Prime Minister's speech this weekend. It is not about his description of our opposition; I was the most critical of his statement that we do not want to debate the content. Prime Minister, we are asking for a substantive debate on the Belgian Defence in the future. It is not just for the reason that Mr Calvo has also pointed out. This morning, I heard the Secretary of Defense on the radio declare that the procedure is ongoing and that we will continue. I have also listened with attention to the Minister for Foreign Affairs at RTBF. He said that the government will now verify whether we are continuing the procedure initiated or whether we should launch another procedure. A little later he told the journalist that he would have found that the procedure had now been suspended. Prime Minister, what is it now? Is your Secretary of Defense's statement true or your Foreign Minister's statement? A third reason why I wanted to debate with you, Prime Minister, and not with the Minister of Defence, is that I have lost faith in the Minister of Defence. He lied to Parliament. That's why it's a good thing we're talking to you about this billion-dollar file. We want to talk to the head of government about the choices that need to be made in this billion-dollar file. What, you're not anymore?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand and share the exasperation of my colleagues Calvo and Van der Maelen. At the beginning of the week, the Prime Minister was asked about the strikes that took place in Syria, on the initiative of three countries that are our allies in NATO, and which were motivated by serious accusations of the use of chemical weapons by the Bashar al-Assad regime. We learn in the meantime that a number of companies are suspected – and it seems that the facts are proven – of having exported chemicals with a clear embargo violation and regardless of any compliance with the procedures prevailing in the Flemish Region. Because this is Syria and because there have been these strikes and because the Prime Minister has positioned himself on these strikes, we also had to be able to hear the Prime Minister on these issues which are pointed and involve Belgian companies and administrations, because the image of the country is at stake. That is why we are particularly surprised to learn that these issues are being referred to Mr Jambon. This is completely unacceptable. We want the Prime Minister to respond because, clearly, the image of the country is at stake on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u10	Prime Minister, I asked you a question about the replacement of the F-16s. I confess I don't understand why you're getting rid of yourself. You announced a month ago in plenary that two audits would be conducted and followed by a discussion with Parliament. These two audits appeared. A discussion in the Defence Committee has taken place and we expect to have it with you now. The day we get an opportunity to have one, you get rid of it. That is not acceptable. We know the position of the Minister of Defence. This morning, we learned from the Minister of Foreign Affairs and it is, indeed, different. We want to know the government's response to this case, which is why we asked you to question us and we want you to be able to answer us as you are here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u11	When the Prime Minister said that we were waiting for the audits and that he absolutely wanted Parliament to continue its work before responding on the whole issue, he maintained his logic from the beginning, that parliamentary work has not been completed, Mr. Speaker. There is still one scheduled hearing session. Yesterday, we attended a long hearing, which ended with the simple demonstration that the facts put forward by Mr. Van der Maelen wasn't on the road. [[Applause]] He put forward a shameful "scandalitis", while this file contains nothing!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u12	One moment. We are not starting a discussion among ourselves about the regulation of the work. All I have to tell you is that we've followed the line we always follow. This means, first of all, that there were questions about both the F-16 and the export of chemical elements to Syria, which were addressed to both one minister and the other. For example, where chemical exports to Syria were concerned, the Minister of Finance, responsible for customs, was addressed, just like the Prime Minister. On the F-16 there were questions for Minister Vandeput and also for the Prime Minister. We have continued the line we always follow, especially that if there is any evidence of political problems within the government, it is only natural that the Prime Minister should reply. He does. The political problem is that the Prime Minister disagrees with the opposition. Of course, that will happen. For the rest, of course, it is the competent minister who deals with the dossier, who will reply and who, by the way, takes the whole government with his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u13	You have indeed followed the line you always follow, and that is that of the majority, protecting the government and your own party. That is the line you have followed, something you have also done in recent days. While our Parliament was abandoned, embarrassed by the majority, we needed a President of the Chamber who should have taken the map of parliamentary democracy at that time. Secondly, the political problem. It's true, ARCO is a political problem and that's why the Prime Minister is responding to ARCO. However, there is also a political problem with regard to the fighter planes. Mr Reynders has arrived. He said on the radio that he would look into whether or not the procedure would be continued. Minister Vandeput, for the time being also a member of this government, has said that he will continue to do so in any case. So there is also a political problem in this dossier. The Prime Minister, who promised, must therefore answer those questions: he is the Prime Minister. Please show a little courage: you're here. Go into those questions, it's about a billion-dollar file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u14	Mr Calvo, I do not feel addressed. I can tell you very often that there are discussions between Parliament and the government and that they are finally decided by the Prime Minister's reply. Moreover, the figures also show that almost 70% of the questions are answered by the Prime Minister. I therefore propose that we move on to the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am glad that you do not cease to answer my question. In the meantime, I have asked you a number of times about the slope you will follow in the ARCO file. I can read the answer again in the newspaper, as was the case with budgetary control and the internal army audit. Maybe I'll introduce myself as a journalist from now on. Maybe I'll get more answers than as a Member of Parliament. You are proposing a deal of EUR 540 million to be coughed up by the taxpayer. Belfius pays 25 million euros. movement.net, the great culprit, pays 35 million euros. Minister, 90% of the corresponding EUR 600 million is being cut out of the State treasury. That's what I call gray culture. Mr Minister, when I look at your proposal, I note that something is not right in your construction. A settlement may be concluded if there is a dispute. The dispute here is a possible liability. Prime Minister, you have learned in your first year of law, as I have learned during my studies in commercial engineering, that liability presupposes three things. First of all, there must be a mistake. Secondly, there must be damage. Thirdly, there must be a causal link. The damage suffered by the ARCO corporations was caused by movement.net, which gave false information and sold risky investments as safe investments, and Belfius, on the other hand, by not informing its customers sufficiently. We can therefore say that the damage is final and is fixed at the time of Dexia's collapse. This means that both movement.net and Belfius can close a deal. What, however, should happen to the Belgian State? You must explain to me the damage caused by the Belgian State. The Belgian State has indeed drawn up a regulation which is rejected by the Court of Justice. However, the question is where the damage is. The Belgian State has nothing to do with the original damage and has certainly not caused any additional or additional damage. So, Prime Minister, I would very much like to have an explanation of your precious deal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u16	Mr President, Mrs Wouters, first of all, I can confirm that a few years ago, in our coalition agreement, we took the decision of principle to develop a solution for ARCO. Secondly, I have had the opportunity, on behalf of the government, to confirm a few times in plenary that the government intends to find a solution for ARCO. Thirdly, there is a reasoning about a possible IPO in relation to Belfius. It seems logical to us that if an ARCO solution could be developed, it would be better to offer more opportunities and be more attractive to a possible IPO for Belfius. I have said publicly a few times, and I confirm once again that the Minister of Finance and I are in dialogue with the European Commission. As you rightly say, this is a complex legal matter and I would like to thank you for your fascinating legal analysis. We are also working and I will inform Parliament and the Government as soon as possible about these discussions with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have the impression that you are quitting your answers. What I can see here is that the Belgian taxpayer will still pay for that whole ARCO debacle. When I look at what you're proposing, a deal, it's just a guarantee scheme that's been disguised as a deal. Such a structure is fraudulent and one will still be able to rely on it, no matter what Europe decides in the near future. A settlement on behalf of the Belgian State, whereas that Belgian State did not cause any damage, cannot be concluded. Fraus omnia corrumpit [[.]] That's what they say in Antwerp. You're just covering up state aid here. You know, as I do, that the tentacles of the ARCO gang extend to this Parliament, to your government, to the EPP, to the European Commission. Prime Minister, I urge you not to let that gang steal the money fraudulently and grab it from our State treasury. The ARCO coordinators must be helped, but they will have to be compensated by the main culprit, and that is not the Belgian State treasury, but movement.net.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u18	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is a beautiful, sunny day, which prompted many to wear a T-shirt, but perhaps few of them thought about where the T-shirt was produced and where all that textiles came from. Now, a lot of these products, T-shirts and other clothing, are produced in Bangladesh under sometimes very difficult working conditions, in workshops with insufficient lighting and ventilation, where too long working hours are imposed and sometimes child labour is carried out. This is a very problematic situation, which recorded a very sad low point in 2013, when hundreds of workers were killed in a major collapse. After this low point, many textile companies have fortunately realised that it is no longer possible to do so, and that more effort was needed in terms of hygiene and remuneration. The workers who work there for seven days a week, sometimes for three to four weeks ten hours a day, leave about 40 euros converted at the end of the month. The wage of the workers is less than 4% of the final price for the consumer here. So that's a very unsustainable model. Fortunately, an agreement was reached with the clothing industry at the time, but that agreement is now coming to an end in 2018. It would be good if more Belgian clothing companies joined and committed themselves to safety and working conditions inspections. Not only the NGOs say that, also the OECD recommends this to Belgian companies. Fortunately, there are some good examples. For example, six Belgian companies, namely C&A, JBC, Bel&Bo, Bel-Confect, Van der Erve and Jogilo, have committed themselves to this. We don't just have to assume and shaming; if it's good, that can be said. In any case, we would very much like to call for more attention to be paid to clean clothes as a condition for concluding trade agreements, just as we should at European level, so that workers in Bangladesh can count on more quality of life. My questions to the government and to you as Minister of Work and Economy are the following. Can you support the agreement? Can you take initiatives to encourage Belgian clothing companies to sign the agreement on this matter as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed a sunny day. Mr Deseyn, you are right to stress that it is the fifth anniversary of the tragedy caused by the collapse of the Rana Plaza complex in Bangladesh. Five years ago, Belgium's National Contact Point for OECD Directives called on companies to engage in the Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh and to sign it. As you have indicated, six Belgian companies have expressed their commitment very clearly. You have rightly said that these six companies can and should be interpreted in a positive way. You have also mentioned the important results at world level and, in particular, in Bangladesh. There are now better working conditions for 2 million workers. This is encouraging and it invites us to continue to sensitise, so that even more companies would endorse the initiative. You will note that a new agreement has been reached after three years, the Transition Accord 2018. We support this and we want to encourage the Belgian companies to go along with it again or further. The answer to the question of whether we have taken action in the meantime is yes. On 17 April, not so long ago, there was a consultation at the Belgian national contact point. That is where it was decided that there would be a sensitisation event. That's scheduled for September. A joint promotion campaign will also be set up to allow even more companies to endorse that strong commitment. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must continue to work on this at international level and certainly at OECD level. We will do the same and continue to work for further steps. The consumer must also be involved. If the consumer is made aware of where his T-shirt comes from, he can play a leading role in this. This is an important signal to the companies. I'm concluding. We are celebrating an important but unfortunate birthday. Action was taken at OECD level at the time and Belgium gave the necessary support. We will now take new action. As I said, it is a awareness campaign and a promotion campaign to make more companies more sensitive to the theme. We will also try to make it clear to the consumer that when he buys a T-shirt, he should think about where it comes from.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u20	Minister, I thank the government and you, as the competent minister, for your attention to raising awareness. Indeed, the consumer must ask more questions. Sometimes it is difficult to read the Fair Wear Foundation label or other clean clothes campaigns. For example, the campaign for clean sports clothes taught consumers that if they pay a few cents more for sports clothing, they can make a big difference for millions of workers worldwide. It is not normal that only 1% of the final price is reserved for the worker, who sometimes worked on it for hours. I am very pleased with the commitment in this regard. You feel that this is a process of growth, as many companies still have to join. The consumer is very powerful: by asking the shopkeeper or the man behind the counter where the clothes came from and whether they were produced in correct conditions and therefore labelled, the consumer will automatically send the market towards greater respect for working conditions. There is a lot of sunshine in Bangladesh, but with the initiative there can also be more job joy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u21	Mr President, I regret that I do not have the opportunity today to put my question to the Prime Minister, but to put it to the Foreign Minister, who gave his version of the facts yesterday. The fact that we cannot question the Prime Minister today on this issue, nor on the issue of the supply of products supposedly intended for chemical weapons in Syria, has everything to do with the Prime Minister's father. Indeed, the Prime Minister's father, who had several talks with Bashar al-Assad in April 2001 as Belgian Foreign Minister and in April 2007 as European Commissioner in Syria, and also with several Syrian government ministers to organise all kinds of deliveries from Belgian firms to Syria. That is why the Prime Minister is no longer allowed to be, wants to be, and can be, questioned on this issue. He walks away from Parliament instead of answering about his own father's responsibility. Today, claiming that last week's attack on Syria is understandable and acceptable and that a so-called political solution to the problem must be found, is cowardly running the hand of the United States, France and Britain, because of the simple fact... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u22	Mr Van Rompuy, I thought you were also in the government with Louis Michel. Then there was no problem with Syria and Bashar al-Assad!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u23	Mr Dewinter, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u24	There is simply no evidence from the United Nations of this poisonous gas attack! There is no mandate from the various parliaments or from the United Nations. Mr Foreign Minister, I would like to hear from you the involvement of the Belgian Government in the past and of your party, the MR, with Louis Michel in the lead, in relation to Syria. And if you do not tell Parliament, then I will tell the media and Parliament, because there is involvement and there are links between the Syrian Government and, among other things, Louis Michel, the father of our Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u25	Mr President, Mr Dewinter, I have heard a number of comments about the period before the current conflicts in Syria. I didn't see a picture of you meeting with Mr. Assad. Do you have a photo of that meeting? With regard to the position, not only of my political party but of the whole government, the following. We believe that there is no military solution to the conflict in Syria. We are calling, together with other European countries, and with the European Union in general, for a genuine dialogue between the regime and the various opposition groups in Syria, in order to achieve a new organisation of power. That's the only way. In the next few weeks, we will establish contacts with Russia and Iran, among others, to put pressure on the regime so that there can be a division of power in Syria. A political solution is the only solution. There will be no direct contact with Mr Assad unless perhaps from your party, or by yourself, but that is a different story. In this context, I have a number of photos of your contacts with the regime, but you personally organised them. And they date from a different period. There are many photographs of many other leaders from before the conflict in Syria. The photos with you were taken afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u26	Mr Foreign Minister, I would like to, but your explanation sounds very unbelievable and hypocritical. Hypocrite for the simple fact that Louis Michel was Minister for your party, the MR, in 2000 and then became European Commissioner in 2007. In 2000, Bashar al-Assad was in power and in the fifteen years before, his father was in power. I thought there were a lot of problems with human rights at the time, and the suppression of political minorities and so on. This is unbelievable and hypocritical. You know that in the past, with your party and Louis Michel, the Prime Minister's father, the Belgian Government has made agreements with the Syrian regime. Belgian companies have been facilitated to make all kinds of deliveries, including from chemical products, to Syria. There was no problem back then. Today there is that problem. Take responsibility, find out what happened and tell the opposition. In Syria, they have not forgotten what you, your party, the MR and this government have forgotten. They do keep a lot of archives, and they are very interesting, Mr Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u27	Mr Minister, on 2 May the European Commission will make known its guidelines for the multiannual financial framework which should take place beyond 2020. It is well known that the priorities of the European Union were once strongly focused on the cohesion plan and on the common agricultural policy. From now on, other issues are taking place. The definitive implications of Brexit are not yet known. More is known, however, of the Union's desire to invest even more in migration policies, in climate protection or in research and development. As far as cohesion policy is concerned, there are many questions. The Walloon Minister-President asked himself, like his German-speaking colleague and the European President of the Committee of the Regions, whether Wallonia, a region in transition, could still benefit from other funding opportunities after 2020. What position will our country take in this debate? Is it necessary to redefine some of our indicators in relation to new macro-economic developments and incentives that may change the situation? Do we have allies in pursuing the objectives of the region?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u28	Mrs Jadin, it is true that the discussion on the multiannual financial framework has begun. But it is arduous in that Brexit will lead to a reduction in budgetary resources, except to find additional contributions from Member States or from the European Union's own resources. These discussions will continue. This means that the Commission's proposals tend either to achieve savings in certain policies or to transfer resources from one policy to another. As regards the cohesion funds, the Belgian position is very clear. Fortunately, we are supported by several partners. Of course, we want this cohesion policy to be pursued, including for the regions in transition, as is the case for regions in Belgium. We have many allies in this process, but with a nuance. Some would like the more developed regions to receive less and less resources and to have more co-financing and thus a greater burden for the regions themselves. The Belgian position is very clear: we want the activity of cohesion funds to be maintained in the regions in transition by focusing on urban policies, which will also have an effect in some of our regions. I hope that we will be heard by the Commission in its proposals on 2 May, otherwise we will come back to the burden in future discussions on the multiannual financial framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u29	Thank you very much, Minister. Needless to say, the importance of conducting this fight, since you have done so! I hear the will of our country to really lead the boat in order to manage to extend the possibilities of aid for the Walloon Region in particular, a region in transition which has used the resources received very well in the past and proved that it can make effective use of the trust given to it in this context. I also hear the importance of convincing. Having allies is a good thing. And I hope that we will have conclusive results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u30	Mr Minister, the Vlaams Vredeinstituut coordinated a European-wide research on the acquisition of illegal firearms by terrorists. As you said, Mr President, this is the SAFTE project (Study the Acquisition of Illicit Firearms by Terrorisms in Europe). The conclusions were presented to the Flemish Parliament on 17 April. While it is obviously not new to argue that terrorism and arms trafficking are closely linked, it is nevertheless interesting to read in the report that "there remains a lack of systematic exchange of information and cooperation between specialized services, on the one hand, in the fight against terrorism and, on the other hand, in the fight against arms trafficking". It also notes a lack of attention on the ground to the detection of networks that have led to the illegal acquisition of weapons, so that it would be more focused on combating terrorism than on combating arms trafficking. These considerations must of course be analysed in the light of the initiatives already taken in Belgium by the Federal Government. In 2016, our parliament was able to adopt new legal provisions to combat these criminal acts. I will also recall that coordination structures were set up in 2015 and 2016 to ensure cooperation and coherence of action at the national and local levels. As such, the Canal Plan provides an illustration, cited in the report, of the special attention given to the approach to arms trafficking, with a strengthening of action at the local level. Mr Minister, although it seems that a lot of action has already been taken in this area in our country, the report nevertheless raises a question. So what do you see from the reforms undertaken and the progress made in the measures announced in the fight against arms trafficking? Then, do you share the findings of this study? Do you think that there is still a need to strengthen coordination between Belgian actors involved in the fight against terrorism and arms trafficking? If so, how? Finally, Mr. Minister, are specific measures being taken to ensure that the relationship between criminal networks and radicalized networks is specifically monitored in prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u31	Mr Pivin, some of the conclusions of this study - which could be said to be easier - deserve special attention. It is mainly small arms and light weapons that are available on the illegal market. Military weapons are also becoming more available. This is due to international trafficking from the Balkan countries, as well as the trade in neutralized and acoustic weapons, which are transformed into firearms. In this respect, as you know, Europe has already taken the initiative by imposing stricter rules on neutralisation, which Belgium has followed conscientiously. With regard to the actual acquisition of illegal weapons, criminals and terrorists are mainly brought into contact with the media via the Internet and in prisons, where we make constant sweatings. This phenomenon should be closely monitored. We have created new methods of weapons research. In particular, we have expanded the scope of the use of telephone wiretapping to include arms trafficking. In this sense, it is a measure that has been adequate. Particular attention must be paid to the image of the phenomenon and to international cooperation. I will put the SAFTE study which I have just studied first on the agenda of the inter-federal consultation committee on the fight against the illegal arms trade. This committee has been meeting again since 2016. At the same time, this study has dispelled some persistent rumours, and I welcome them. It appears that our country is not a hub of illegal arms trafficking, and that the Kalashnikovs are not for sale on the street for a few hundred euros. Come back to me, Mr. Pivin, in the coming weeks to ask me what could be done more concretely to respond to this study, given what has already been done, and what can still be done. Indeed, we have just begun to analyse it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u32	Minister, I understand your answer, since the report has only just been presented. I note that the conclusions will be analysed. We must pay close attention to the notions of interconnection and coordination between the different services. We always come to the same concern: the exchange of information. This point was also highlighted by the commission of inquiry into the attacks. We need to improve the exchange of information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u33	Madam Minister, we have known for a long time what is the most important cause of death for 35-plussers: the hiding of carotid arteries by cholesterol, which can cause the heart to stop at the time of a heart attack. However, there is an important gap in our knowledge when it comes to unexpected deaths among young athletes under 35 years of age. Why does such a young, healthy heart with 10 billion heart muscle cells that give a pumping effect 100 000 times a day suddenly fall silent? Our screening, however well-meant, fails. After all, if your only tool is a hammer, you treat everything like a nail. If one only has a hammer, everything looks like a nail. The Federal Knowledge Centre also published a critical article on this subject in 2015. Madam Secretary, I realize you're not under the market. You operate on many fronts, difficult fronts and many important files require your attention. Given my mandate as a representative of the people and my cap as a cardiologist, I would like to ask for your support. After all, we are preparing a legislative proposal to introduce post-mortem investigations into young athletes into compulsory health insurance and thus to have them reimbursed. It's the only way we can close this gap in our knowledge. If you don't take a temperature, you can't find a fever . We need to check it out. Because this is not now a funding, it does not happen in practice. My group would like to launch a parliamentary initiative with your group's colleagues and interested Members. Can we count on your support and cooperation, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u34	There is always the same disbelief when young people die suddenly, especially when it comes to a young athlete who takes care of himself and performs excellently. Then everyone will stop and ask a lot of questions. It's not just about top athletes. There are also other young people who suddenly die, deaths that are unsuspecting and which do not lead to an autopsy by order of the court, but which, especially given the age of the deceased, are unexpected. This number of deaths of young people is estimated at 1 500 per year in our country. I've had the pistes examined to see if an autopsy would be more structural in the event of an unexpected death. It is also important to know to what extent we intend to systematically impose or encourage such reviews. Remember that it is a very painful and emotional process for the family involved to give that consent for the autopsy, and that decision must come immediately after the painful death. Before we look at the proposal and consider who is to be charged under what conditions, we must first have an answer to the following questions. Do we want to see autopsies generalized? Do we want to force or encourage them after such a dramatic but unsuspecting death? This is a more ethical debate which should be held in the Chamber, possibly in connection with the discussion of your legislative proposal, which is in formation. If an autopsy is required within a given framework, the demand for reimbursement may arise. If you wish to have that debate, I will be happy to take part in the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u35	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your honest position. There is a slight difference from other discussions that we sometimes have to have in the ethical field. After all, when a young athlete dies, everyone wants to know why that happened. Everyone wants an explanation for that. Now such a death causes concern and guilt to the family, to the trainers, to the framework and to the doctors. I myself know of screenings in which people of any malignancy or of any problem were cleared, but two months later it happens anyway. The context here, ethically speaking, is somewhat different. The question of the public is also different. Regular exercise stays healthy. It's been proven. What is happening now sometimes creates an undesirable avoidance behavior. We will continue to work on our legislative proposal, which can close our knowledge gap in this area. I will do so with your support, for which I would like to express my thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u36	Madam Minister, last year the Socialist sickness fund recovered EUR 275 000 from hospitals that had overcharged their patients. Aware of too high invoices, "creative invoices" the sickness fund calls the phenomenon, with, among other things, unjustified administrative costs. By the way, the phenomenon extends to labs and medical practices. This week we learned from the CM that only a third of the hospitals indicate a cost estimate on its website, also for simple treatments. So two thirds do not communicate clearly about the tariffs. Madam Minister, these two findings have the same cause as that third phenomenon, namely the continued increase in supplements. Let us be honest, I am not the only one who is convinced that all this is happening because of the ongoing savings and the delay in rewriting hospital funding, which does not come off the ground. Who pays for that, colleagues? Right, that's the patient and the health insurance. In the long run, therefore, we are going to kill ourselves, but especially the patient, who I think is very important now that he feels put in his shirt. My first question is very simple. How will you put an end to these practices? Secondly, we have long been in favour of clear tariff fixing, not only with the general practitioner and the dentist, but also with hospitals. However, these proposals are happily voted off by the majority, as the day before yesterday with the rates at the dentist's office. The why is never clear to me. Why does she do that? Why are you so afraid of transparency, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u37	Mrs. Jiroflée, you've probably missed something. As far as hospital funding is concerned, the text on low variable care was adopted at first reading. That happened on the Friday before the Easter recess. Maybe you were already on your way to a tropical island. Anyway, thank you for your question. At the heart of the matter is that a patient wants to know in advance how much an operation will cost. He or she should then be able to check the invoice in a transparent manner. The patient's demand is justified and we are behind it. I suspect that your question is somewhat inspired by the communications of the Socialist Mutualities. The problem is that the hospital bill must contain a lot of information, which makes it complex. Patients are therefore experiencing difficulties in monitoring for themselves. The hospitals are subject to a number of obligations. They must provide information in advance, orally or in writing, so that the patient has as little surprise as possible upon receipt of the invoice. This should be explained orally to the patient at the time of admission. That will be done through the recording statement. Many hospitals make a lot of efforts to give a cost estimate to the patient in advance, whether through their website or not. If the patient has any questions or concerns about the invoice received, he may address the Ombudsman first of all to the hospital. In fact, solutions can already be found in the course of discussion. In addition, the patient can apply to his sickness fund. It should be, because that is a mission of the health insurance funds. The health insurance funds that assist the patient in this are very well aware of the invoicing rules and can point the hospital to incorrect accounts. I'm gonna have to nuance things a little bit. Each euro that is charged too much is, of course, too much. However, the amount of EUR 275 000 relates to a controlled amount of EUR 8 billion per year in the BFM. To put it in the right context, even though some of it may not have been checked yet, this means that the percentage is not a very high amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u38	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I'm afraid I wasn't in the sun, and I know very well that you made your decision about that low-variable care just before the Easter holiday. But you also know that this is only about a very small particle and that the great work has yet to come. The sum of EUR 275 000 is only a small part, you argue. We are convinced that it is just a tip of the iceberg. Unfortunately, many patients do not look at that invoice or believe that it should be. You have indicated what the problem is. It is very often very complicated for patients to see what it is all about. We are in favour of a clear poster and clear information for the patient, which is unfortunately less than ever at the moment. We insist on the fact that there are uncertainties due to the late restructuring, that hospitals are trying to remain 'creative' and that it is about savings. We are talking about hospitals, Madam Secretary, we are talking about doctors, but above all, we are talking about patients, and you are abandoning them in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u39	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, we are going to talk about an international issue, which does not happen to us so often. The situation in Syria is extremely complex. The question is how to prevent Bashar al-Assad from slaughtering his people and poisoning them with gas that kills them. The global consequences of military intervention can be very serious Indeed, it is known that Russia is ambush. In this case, we must therefore act with caution and within the framework of the United Nations. But in this context, the minimum to do in Belgium is to verify that no Belgian company has economic relations with any belligerent in Syria, whether it is Daesh or Bashar al-Assad's regime. In the summer of 2016, I asked your colleagues, Messrs. Reynders, Peeters et Van Overtveldt. I asked them a simple question: is there a list of companies active in Syria? The Minister of Economy said no. The Minister of Finance, who is in charge of customs, also replied – which is surprising – that there was no list. The Minister for Foreign Affairs informed the Foreign Trade Agency that there were 997 Belgian companies active in Syria in 2016. The observation is terrible: nothing has been done by this government to prevent, prevent Belgian companies trading with Daesh or Bashar al-Assad because he simply does not know them. As a result, three companies sold 24 times products that could be used for the production of sarin gas. While our soldiers risk their lives there, on the outside ground, on the inside ground, Belgian companies sell products to these belligerents. Deputy Prime Minister, will you finally take charge of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister of the Interior, how was this possible? How could Belgium, from May 2014 to the end of 2016, deliver chemicals that could be used in the manufacture of chemical gases, including the famous sarin gas? How is the Belgian government, because it is indeed Belgium, it is it that is appointed by the United Nations system, how are companies, how could your administration let that happen? A table produced by the United Nations shows that every year Belgium submits information on exports of illegal products. It is Belgium that gives this information to the United Nations. How can your government let that happen? Don't pretend you didn't know because you were giving this information to the United Nations! Belgium provided information on an illegal export of chemicals that could be used to manufacture gas used against civilian populations. I want a clear explanation, Mr. Minister of the Interior, about your government, about its responsibilities. When did you find out? Why didn't you do anything? What arrangements did you make at the time you knew? How is it that we are the only European country that has not stopped these exports? How is it that we are in breach of European regulations? What have you done since then? What sanctions? How will it be done in the future so that it does not happen again? What do you know about the end use of these Belgian chemicals?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u41	Mr President, Minister, it is not a matter of purely administrative management that we are concerned with. It is not one of those possible shortcomings of the administration that would ultimately require only some kind of internal control. No! There is a problem of Belgium's international credibility. It has just been recalled that we are probably the only European Union Member State whose companies export to a country at war products likely to be used in the manufacture of chemical weapons. One might wonder why the government did not take the decision to make it clear that the terms of the European regulation concerning restrictive measures should be applied without restriction because of the situation in Syria. This regulation, it should be recalled, entered into force in mid-2013. I recall: "It is prohibited to sell, supply, transfer or export directly or indirectly equipment, goods or technologies that may be used for internal repression or for the manufacture and maintenance of products that may be used for listed internal repression, etc." The text of the European Regulation is clear. There is no reason to question whether we can or cannot, or whether it is under certain conditions. That's no! No export of this type of products! The companies interviewed say that customs did not make any comments. Some say so. Minister, from exactly what date did customs seize these facts and under what circumstances? It is said that Dutch customs would have been the first to report the facts. Is that correct? Since the customs seized it, what exactly has been undertaken within the Ministry of Finance to trace the twenty-four deliveries that have been made over time? It is not enough to say that the case was referred to the courts. That's the repressive, penal part. They say there were twenty-four deliveries. Is chronology established? Do we know the exact details of the products being exported? Is the sector identified as well as the final destination? So these are all the questions that we have the right to ask ourselves before we make a more political judgment. But we are already, once again, confronted with this great laxity of a country that no longer fulfils its regal missions, because there is also a political will not to give the public authorities the means to carry out their regal missions effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u42	Mr President, Minister, as the international community as a whole is today seeking solutions to the Syrian conflict that has cost the lives of several hundred thousand people and thousands of children, Antwerp companies have also crossed the red line. Yesterday, we were all shocked to learn that three Antwerp companies had sold products to Syria that could be used in the manufacture of chemical weapons. Between 2014 and 2016, dozens of tons of products destined for the worst were sold when a United Nations embargo on the sale of such products to Syria was imposed in 2013 following international investigations that had demonstrated that Bashar al-Assad had already used lethal gas against his own people. How can one believe for a second that these companies were unaware of the military and murderous use that the Syrian regime could make of this product? How can we believe for a second that these companies were unaware of an embargo on exports to Syria? Let us remember the horror of these images of women, men and children who were struck in 2012 by chemical weapons, dying in atrocious suffering, images which, unfortunately, came out a few days ago and who rebelled and outraged us and even justified the strikes of some partners of the international coalition in Syria. Therefore, Minister, it is the responsibility of States to enforce such an embargo and it is also the responsibility of all components of the State. How do you explain that three companies were able to export tonnes of products for four years and that they were able to make more than 20 deliveries? How has this dual-use trade been learned? Have these companies applied for dual-use export licences? Have they been granted and who has granted them? Did Belgium take any further action when this scandal was discovered? Have you given instructions to strengthen the means to ensure that this embargo is respected? Do you have a clear vision of dual-use transactions and exports? Has the Customs committed a mistake in this file and has an investigation been requested?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u43	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this year we will commemorate the 100th anniversary of the end of World War I. In World War I, poison gas was used as a weapon of war on a large scale for the first time. Since then, our country has rightly been one of the major opponents of the use of chemical weapons. Despite many initiatives, particularly the 1993 Chemical Weapons Convention, the fight against chemical weapons has certainly not yet been fought. What we see in Syria, for example, is unacceptable. The images from Douma of children, mothers and fathers who are victims of a chemical attack are truly terrible. The use of chemical weapons is therefore unacceptable. If it turns out that one of our own Belgian companies is exporting isopyranol to Syria, knowing that isopyranol is a component of saringas, that is a bit hallucinating. I don't understand. We must dare to ask ourselves how that happened. The company in question itself refers to the fact that the customs tool, the TARBEL, does not indicate that that product requires an export licence. However, the law requires that a licence for the export of such products to Syria is already mandatory since 2013. We can also ask ourselves whether there have been no errors in customs and customs controls. Customs would have checked all the containers involved, but then sent them to Syria. Other sources say that customs would only have carried out an ex post check. Such checks are normally carried out on the basis of risk analysis. The risk analysis of chemical products exported to Syria should, in my view, be given a high risk label. Mr. Secretary, how did that happen? How can we avoid it happening in the future? We certainly want to remain credible in our fight against chemical weapons, and it is important that adjustments are made.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u44	Mr President, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, another terrible poisonous gas attack recently took place in Syria. The horrible images are burned on our retina. It is appalling to see the regime of Assad poisoning its own population without scruples. The international community immediately condemned that attack. Belgium, too, has rightly done so. It is indeed 100 years since the first poison gas attack took place in Belgium. Our country and our Parliament have always fought for a total ban on this defence material. So, what's going on? Belgium was apparently the only European country that, despite a ban, exported an important component of nerve gas to Syria, 168 tonnes without authorisation or screening. I must not forget that Belgium would bear any responsibility for the latest poison gas attack in Syria. Prime Minister Bourgeois spoke perfectly well yesterday. Not the Flemish export control failed, but Belgian customs. According to him, Belgian customs should have turned the light on red. This is a clear reference to the powers of the Minister of Finance, Mr Van Overtveldt. How can it be that when it is clearly stated on a consignment note that chemicals are exported to Syria, there is no alarm at customs? It is clear that the communication between customs and regional control services is inadequate. Apparently, everyone's authorized, but no one's responsible. Mr Vice Prime Minister, why didn't customs stop this export? Was the 2013 European decision clearly communicated to the companies concerned? How does the communication between customs and regional control bodies proceed? Can customs not systematically exchange the necessary export data with them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to apologise to Minister Van Overtveldt for his absence. He is currently on his way to the United States for a number of meetings with the IMF. I will give you his answer to the questions you have asked. The product in question, isoacetamide, has a very wide range of applications. For example, it is used as a paint thinner for the production of ink and even has some medical applications. It does not appear on the lists of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. Europe has also not imposed a total ban on this product. In July 2013, the European Council introduced the authorisation requirement for exports of isoacetamide with a purity level of 95% or more. Export licences are granted by the Regions. Customs carry out checks on many products based on risk analysis. This has resulted in customs now also prosecuting three, although related, companies in the Antwerp District Court. False declarations were made on the customs declaration and the goods were declared as non-licensed. As regards customs controls, the European Customs Regulation provides for a common framework for risk management with a view to a harmonised designation of customs controls by the Member States and thus avoids any distortion of competition. This also applies to goods subject to control measures or limitations such as embargoes, but also to goods which may be marketed through a licensing system. Risk management is determined in particular by the input of other competent bodies such as licensing services. On the basis of this input, an assessment is made to establish a selection. The selections and related checks shall be carried out both at the asset code level and at the level of the information provided by the authorities concerned. Such risk management is a process subject to continuous monitoring. Customs, like the customs services of other Member States, shall make every effort to maintain and improve the level of performance of their risk analysis and the resulting controls. We are now waiting for the results of the investigation and the court ruling. The court proceedings start on May 15th. The first question to be asked and answered is whether the firms in question have fulfilled the formalities correctly. Of course, an analysis of the facts is also being carried out at customs, in preparation for the legal prosecution of companies. The Minister of Finance undertakes to keep Parliament informed of developments in the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u46	Minister, thank you for your answer. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the fact that a thousand companies dealing with Syria are not under the radar of customs and therefore the services of Mr. Van Overtveldt, we have known since 2016. When we're at war in a country, the minimum is to start by checking what we're doing here so we don't feed the conflict there. And we know since 2016 that this work is not done. The image of our country is terribly degraded. How can we give more credit to what the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs say? They affirm that Belgium must play a leading role in the defence and fight against chemical weapons. Security and human rights must take precedence over the interests of companies and investors. It is a matter of the rule of law over economic interests. Here, clearly, the government has missed the opportunity to take precedence over human rights. It is very serious and I hope that after two years of parliamentary work and this sinister matter, the government will finally take up this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u47	Mr. Minister of the Interior, you heard that all the parliamentarians who spoke here were in shock, they were dismayed. And your colleague is talking about bureaucracy. He talks about institutional skills, etc. I heard no word from you to deeply regret that substances were sent by Belgium to Syria, of isopropanol in quantities greater than those that the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons succeeded in destroying in 2014. Belgium, let us be clear, has reconstituted the stocks of Bashar al-Assad's regime into isopropanol, which is a precursor of sarin gas. This is what the companies that are guilty of this export have done. I intend to have clear answers to these questions. How is it that all the other European countries immediately stopped their exports and that we did not do so? How is it that the Foreign Minister who this morning struggled to be on the front line against chemical gases in the world, let that happen? How is it that our country, which was first hit a century ago by these gases, could not prevent the export of these chemicals to Syria? These are the questions that you did not answer and which should have been answered. These issues are fundamental. In a country where these massacres continue and where our allies are obliged to intervene militarily because the red line has been crossed, our companies are putting the stocks of chemicals back up. That is what these companies have done. This is unacceptable and your answer is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u48	Minister, we have received the bureaucratic response in all its splendour: a reminder of the procedures that customs must follow. But that's not what you're asked for. We first asked you for the chronology of facts. When did the government get to know about it? Under what circumstances? Have customs started investigating the case? We do not know all of this. And then we're asking you for a political answer. Given the seriousness of the facts, you are not being asked to tell us which subordinate agent to question. You are asked where the political will of the government is to identify responsibilities at the highest level, if necessary. That's what you're asked for, given the international stakes. We're not in an ordinary business, are we? Bashar al-Assad is probably being given the means to continue the massacre of his people. And they come to explain to us the procedures between customs services, with stamps, stamps and, possibly, accompanying certificates! We don't care about the world! Have a sense of responsibility, minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u49	Mr Minister, for my group and for the international community as a whole, the use and production of chemical weapons is the red line that must never be crossed. It is therefore all the more revolting to learn today that Antwerp companies have also crossed this red line. How can we play a leading role in the search for a political and diplomatic solution to the Syrian conflict if Belgian companies violate an international embargo? The few answers you are giving should encourage us to deepen our thinking, but it appears at least that the Flemish Region has committed two slightities in this matter: in the granting of the licence and in the control. She could have given input to the customs office in order to be able to control it. This has obviously not been done either. I therefore ask you, minister, to think carefully. Having learned this information, we asked you if any additional procedures had been initiated. Obviously, no. For now, we're waiting, we're watching. Anyway, we're continuing the deliveries. Therefore, Minister, I ask that the government take more control measures and provide the necessary means for customs to carry them out properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I believe that we cannot deny that there is a problem somewhere in the chain. You're quoting yourself that the company thought it was non-licensed. It does not make sense for customs authorities not to start flashing lights when there is a shipment of such products to Syria. You are right to say that we must wait for the legal process. I believe that it is also good to look at customs to see what can be done better so that this can be avoided in the future. We must avoid such matters. We cannot live with the idea that we export chemical products to countries where they are used for the manufacture of chemical weapons. This is unacceptable and we must avoid it at all costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u51	Thank you, Mr Vice Prime Minister, for your reply. I have to tell you quite frankly that the Halfrond and I are not waiting for an answer on the level where administrative and technical control was less acute. The only answer that had to be given here today is how to ensure that no litre, no centilitre of such products are exported to countries at war. That is the only answer we deserve here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u52	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, defence is important and investment in defence is also important. In doing so, however, our purchasing procedures must be purely on the table, without steering, with all the options on the table and with sufficient parliamentary control. We do not have these guarantees anymore and therefore we are calling for the current buying-in procedure to be discontinued. Contrary to what the Prime Minister said at VTM, he dared not defend himself here today, MEPs never received the audit reports. We were allowed to look at them. And do you know when, Minister? Four days after the parliamentary debate! If you don't have anything to hide, where does that cramping fear come from? The hearings yesterday taught us three things. Firstly, the Minister's cabinet has actively influenced the internal audit and thus the internal investigation in the Defense Department at least twice, as confirmed yesterday by General Robberecht. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u53	We know that this finding is an uncomfortable truth for the N-VA. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr De Vriendt and only Mr De Vriendt have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u55	It's an uncomfortable truth for the N-VA fraction. We've known that for a long time now. Secondly, Lockheed Martin states that extending the life of our F-16 aircraft to more than 8 000 hours of flight time is virtually impossible. That's where we're gonna follow. Lockheed Martin also says that we have six more years before we have 8 000 hours of flight time with our aircraft. However, the studies in this context were systematically ignored. In the meantime, the Minister's cabinet had to admit that the Minister was aware of the studies, through a slight contact the cabinet had. Colleagues, Parliament too should have had these studies in order to have a proper and serious political debate on the dossier. Thirdly, the expertise of the then material manager of our F-16 fleet is systematically, deliberately set aside. That's the F-16 specialist in our country at the Department of Defense. That man delivered an impressive and serene testimony yesterday. He's been testifying about gag orders, coercion, manipulation. I would like to stress that he was willing to declare all that under oath. I come to my conclusion and my question. Colleagues, serious politicians must not ignore this. The political decision process was manipulated. This is something that we, the politicians, cannot accept, all the more so because it amounts to EUR 15 billion of taxpayers' money. So what's next? [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, only Mr De Vriendt has the floor for a final discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u57	We note that not only whistleblowers are silenced, but also parliamentarians trying to bring the uncomfortable truth. Minister, what will happen next? You say that the purchasing process can go on, while at the same time the Foreign Minister said by radio this morning that the government must now choose either to continue the current procedure or to opt for another, new procedure. Ecolo-Groen's position is very clear: the current purchasing process is no longer reliable and must be stopped immediately. I look forward to your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u58	Mr President, Minister, I heard you say on the radio this morning that the procedure is going ahead. Unfortunately, this is not the first time you have disappointed me in this area. This shows a lack of respect for Parliament. In a dossier of EUR 15 billion, the Court considered it necessary to organise two hearings. These have not yet been completed and the Minister is already there with his conclusions. Moreover, I find it particularly inappropriate for you to draw that conclusion. If you draw any conclusions, we will also draw conclusions. The first hearing revealed that under your responsibility the army has become a state in the state. The military has withheld crucial information and provided false information for the note of 9 November 2015 which formed the basis of the government decision regarding the succession of the F-16. The decision-making process is therefore deadly affected. Secondly, it is particularly inappropriate that you show so little respect for Parliament. We also learned from the hearing that you were aware at least from 6 February of the existence of studies which may explain the extension of the lifetime of the F-16. However, not only did you say on 7 February in the Chamber, but also on 20 February on Radio 1: 'I know nothing about an F-16 report'. A third reason why you are particularly badly placed to draw that conclusion right now is the fact that you are also trying to tamper with the investigations. The hearing revealed... [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u59	Let Mr Van der Maelen speak, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u60	The hearing showed that the Minister's personal military assistant and such a person acted only at the express request of his minister, Mr Robberecht, has contacted General Robberecht, the person responsible for the internal investigation, with the request that Lieutenant Colonel Decrop submit a declaration for signature. In addition, all mail traffic from Lieutenant General Decrop has been requested to be delivered to the Cabinet. [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u61	Ask your question, Mr Van der Maelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u62	Finally, the external audit is a mockery of what an audit should be. The auditors had no security clearance, not all e-mails could be viewed, and not all persons were heard. I come to my question. Minister, do you still think it is appropriate for you, with your course in this dossier, to say that the procedure will continue? We ask for a suspension of the procedure!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u63	Minister, we expected a great deal of transparency on such an important 15 billion contract. [[Tumult]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u64	Colleagues, may I ask you to listen to each other?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u65	Mr President, they are nervous on the right, they are afraid. What was really shocking yesterday was not everyone was present.. was an element during Mr Decrop's internal audit. Imagine it: Mr Decrop will be questioned by Mr Robberecht during a hearing. There will be discussions and questions, and at that time there will be calls. Who's calling? Mario Engels, military assistant to the minister, almost the minister himself, and he asks for Mr Decrop to sign a document stating that he never had any contact with the cabinet. He also asks for the whole of Mr Decrop's mail traffic to be passed on. A question was asked yesterday to Mr Robberecht, ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, and he could not say anything. He couldn't say anything because it's true. Three times the question was asked and he stood there a bit like you: he just couldn't say anything. That's bad, Minister. Can you... [[Tumult]] Calm down at the N-VA. Mr Minister, can you say formally here that there has been no contact between the cabinet, Mr Engels or anyone else, and Mr Robberecht? The people can know the truth. The minister will answer. I come to my second question. The army summit did not consider this information relevant, but we were able to read all the e-mails in the data room, in the audits, in which the top of the army clearly says, "that should not come true now, it is not the right time." Ladies and gentlemen, we have still not received an answer to our questions on this matter today. If certain information was not relevant, why are there still e-mails today saying that it is not the right time to bring that information up? You still owe us an explanation, Minister. My third question concerns Lockheed Martin. My colleague De Vriendt just mentioned it. One can extend, but for Lockheed Martin it's important... They're really nervous! Calm down! This is the democratic debate! We were with many yesterday, also members of Open Vld and CD&V, to ask questions about the procedure. How come that information wasn't there? The only party that doesn't want that information coming here is the N-VA. What do you have to hide, members of the N-VA? What's your problem with the truth? It's about $15 billion. We have the right to the truth. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u66	In Dutch? I've already spoken enough in Dutch. Minister, yesterday Lockheed Martin said that we could extend for six years, but that we should actually buy the F-35. That company is asking us to make a choice between a proposal that will enable the company to earn EUR 600 million and a proposal that can earn it EUR 15 billion. Can we trust such a factory ? No, you don't! We must believe in our own services. It's time to stop this procedure. There is no transparency in this matter!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u67	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my question, I would like to pay tribute to a man, Lieutenant-Colonel Decrop, who, yesterday, courageously assumed his positions, defended them and had the courage, Mr Minister, whom you missed. Because the first obvious thing after yesterday's hearings is that the government, that you, Minister, have never really studied the possibility of extending our fighter planes. That is one of the truths. I'll call him back. A market of 15 billion euros, 2,300 euros per taxpayer and you did not seek to know the truth! A lack of curiosity that seems incomprehensible. I would even say that when we impose austerity on citizens every day, this lack of curiosity is indecent. Today, despite the information that has been revealed in recent days and the hearings have not been completed, you are announcing this morning on the radio, as if nothing had happened, that you are continuing the procedure of this market, I repeat, of 15 billion euros, 2,300 euros per taxpayer. It's indecent! Minister, can you certify here in Parliament that you have never heard of Lockheed Martin's documents or reports that opened the option of an extension of the F-16s? Can you tell us whether, since the new revelations and new elements that we all have in our possession, you have had plan B of the extension of the fighter planes budgeted? Finally, I would like to know how you justify the continuation of the procedure when this very morning, Didier Reynders, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, said on the radio that the government would first of all check whether we are continuing the current procedure or whether we should start another procedure. How do you justify maintaining your position, which, I repeat, is indecent?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u68	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if you look at the news every day and read the newspaper, you will see in what turbulent world we live in: how mad people use poison gas against their own people and how superpowers play a dangerous game. People are wondering whether the Third World War will break out and whether our children will be able to grow up safely in the future. Each of us, colleagues, here in this House, has the power, the task and the responsibility to protect and keep everyone in this country safe. We can't do that alone. We can't just ask our allies to help us. We have to do this ourselves. Anyone who denies that, colleagues, is making people fools of themselves. We need a forceful air force to defend our airspace and that of our allies. Look at the Baltics and to intervene far from us where necessary. Look at our intervention against IS. This means we have to replace our F-16s. We have launched a transparent procedure for this. Mr Minister, a few weeks ago the procedure was crossed by memos questioning the timing of the replacement. We in Parliament should have had those memos. We should have had that information. [[Applause]] That this was not the case, you called an error of assessment, manipulation even. After the presentation of the audits last Friday, you said that there was no foul play and you withdrew your words. Also this morning you communicated again. After yesterday's hearings, which became very clear and clear, my group has still not changed its mind. This information should have been given to you as a minister and also to us as a Parliament. You yourself said that twice in committee and yesterday the CHOD also said this. He literally said, I quote, "Had we had that information, we wouldn't have been here." This is about billions of euros. It's about investing in our safety. Parliament must be able to decide on this in all transparency. It is not up to the DOD to decide, even if the information is not timely or irrelevant, as it turned out after last night. Mr. Secretary, we want a new and powerful army. We are not building this with the old culture of governance and communication that exists today. Minister, I have two questions for you. What initiatives do you take to improve the flow of information and communication between the people within Defence and also between Defence and politicians? When do you expect the outcome of the replacement procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u69	Mr Minister, yesterday Lieutenant-Colonel Rudi Decrop, the owner of the F-16 fleet, came to tell us that we could save 900 million euros in six years, while maintaining our ambition. In other words, Mr Vandeput, it is possible to do better than your government, keeping for six years more than fifty-four aircraft instead of thirty-four. Of course, this goes hand in hand with maintaining the safety of our pilots, which is indispensable. This information was based on Lockheed Martin's studies. Now, it has been hidden from the army hierarchy, from you, from CHOD and from us. The worst is that pressure was exerted on this officer not to disseminate this information: order was given to him to conceal it. Above all, yesterday in committee, CHOD indicated that this was no problem: such information could be concealed from it. You yourself, Minister, said on Friday that we could also hide them from you. I find this way of putting yourself out of the way in a matter that is the central issue of your legislature, Minister of Defence, truly staggering. How can you argue that this information is not about you and should not have been shared with you? Of course they should have been! Colonel Decrop's demonstration was convincing, until, late in the evening, the American army, called as a reinforcement of the Belgian army – it would have been believed at the Disembarkation in Normandy in 1944 – after having communicated to us files in April 2017 and last February explaining to us that the extension of the F-16 was possible, replied yesterday that we had misunderstood. She argued that these were not conclusions, that this was a misunderstanding and that the F-16 could not be maintained. With this in mind, the American army will inform us that it will extend them until 2048. We will be told that these are other sets of aircraft, but they are still F-16s. We only offer to buy them in 2029. In addition, the U.S. military tells us that the F-35s are experiencing problems and will therefore not be able to dispose of them quickly. I would add that we are going to ask those who are submitting an offer to replace our aircraft if it is not appropriate to delay a little bit the purchase of their successors. When I go to my car dealership and ask him if I can still delay the acquisition of a new car, I know his answer in advance. But now we're pretending we don't know her. They are summoned and taken across the Atlantic to have a known answer in advance. Minister, I think it is time we stopped this circus, stopped dealing with this crucial issue chaotically. We want a credible defense. We want this issue to be taken over from scratch, to be able to have a Defence that meets our ambitions and to respond to the wish of the Belgians and Europeans to build together a European Defence and to integrate our air force capabilities together.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I assume that I will have as much time to put things right as those responsible for the scheme. The last few weeks have been magical: democracy is in danger; there is no respect for Parliament. Mr van der Maelen, show a little respect for the people whose names you are throwing into the Chamber, into the house and into the media, without any indication of any effective error. Show a little respect for your profession and for your colleagues here by telling the truth and not jumping to conclusions over and over again and putting them in the mouth of the other. [[Objection]] Yesterday I found again after thirteen hours of hard work by our representatives of the people, with many good things said, that there is no tuxedo gun. What I see today, the result of first day hearings, is a document of less than ten pages dealing with the bodywork of our F-16s, the force structure projection. This is a document which, as indicated yesterday by those concerned themselves, has been developed to manage the fleet in a healthy way and to ensure that the aircraft reach the end of their intended term of life. Another case after 17 or 18 witnesses I don't know how many witnesses you heard yesterday is that one person here is elevated to hero. I still wonder why he didn't just come to the minister with his documentation instead of to another political party. I still wonder which interests are at stake. But I'll probably keep asking myself that. One person has developed a theory based on knowledge purely and exclusively on the structure. He said in committee himself that he has no knowledge of avionics, but that all will be fine. It is about a person and on the other hand all the others say that the document is nothing more than what it is. If you ask the employees of Lockheed Martin about the 8 000 hours of flight time and whether they guarantee the airworthiness for the 8 001th hour, what is their answer? Their answer is no. The answer was clear and you have made a good effort to disprove it, as you always do. Anyone who says anything that goes against your beliefs is unreliable. One person is reliable throughout the story, but the internal investigation has been corrupted, the external investigation sucks, the SPO, which helps fleet managers worldwide in their daily task of keeping the F-16s in the air, knows nothing. The army is a state within the state. Everyone who passes here comes to lie, and there's only one person who's telling the truth. I think that's weird. What interests are being defended here? Last night, I heard in particular that at some point we should be aware that everything is ending, including the F-16s, and that at some point Mr Reynders has just said the same thing this morning, because peace is not free. Mr Van der Maelen, you believe what you believe. I've seen them before. Last week, there were some problems with people who believe in what they believe. You are the same, and you continue to persevere on the basis of lies and assumptions. I would like to correct another case in connection with the internal investigation. There is, after all, some uncertainty about this. I told you in committee on 20 March that I would do three cases. I would order an internal investigation, I would have an external audit done, and I would ask the Americans for additional information on what Lockheed Martin's report actually means. Those are the three things I've done. I brought those reports to the Chamber as soon as they were in my possession, as I always do with the documents that come at my disposal. It is now said that there has been interference in the internal investigation. But what do you expect from me? Mr van der Maelen, you ask me in committee to check the e-mails for a certain period of time, because that is what you said in committee, read the report and I ask that question to the inspector-general, who, according to the Royal Decree of 6 April 2010, is directly under my jurisdiction. I quote: 'The General Inspectorate of Defence is under the direction of the Inspector General, who is directly dependent on the Minister'. (Protests from Mr Van der Maelen) It's an internal investigation. You can read in the Royal Decree what the powers of the Inspector General are. You can read what follows from that. Do you find it so unusual that, if you ask me in committee to check the mails on the cabinet, I ask my cabinet staff if anyone has seen that note, to which the answer is no, or someone has received that note, to which the answer is no, and whether they have found it after examining their computer, to which the answer is also no, then I ask the inspector general, who is currently making his round, to formally ask the persons concerned one specific question, namely whether or not they have forwarded the documents to the cabinet? What was I supposed to do? Shouldn't I have known for sure? They said no. [[Objection]] We're about to have time to replicate. Mr van der Maelen, as soon as you are looking for something that you can once again claim to be a falsehood, I want to be sure. At that point, I say that, with the resources at my disposal, I want to find out what is going on. I never requested full mailboxes. I did say to ask if they had any contact with the cabinet, if they had forwarded that document, if they had sent me the relevant e-mail and, if they could, have it put on paper. That's the question I asked. I think that is a very sensible question for the Inspector-General, who is under my authority. It is a perfectly normal question in the situation we were in at the time. That said, I explained the three different reports on Friday. It took you thirteen hours to find out in the end that the extension of life would be a very difficult matter. You have finally learned that there are actually no guarantees today that the lifetime of our F-16s can be extended, that there is no one around the world who is thinking about keeping the F-16's Block 15, like ours, longer than 8 000 hours of flight time. No one in the world! That's what we're remembering from that. What did I say? What did the Prime Minister say here before Easter recess? What did other colleagues say? They have said that there is no government decision to stop the procedure. Today we are in the evaluation, but at the end we will bring together all the elements of this dossier. At that point, the government will make the right choice. I am convinced, Mr Van der Maelen and Mr De Vriendt, that if you always say that you are doing well with the Defense Department, you should also show that. The air combat capability is a spearhead of our defense. That is why it is absolutely essential that we make a difficult choice. Believe me, I know it's about a lot of money. It is about an investment, in EUR 2015, of 3.6 billion. Even the years after that investment will cost money, but every plane will cost money. And yes, other things can happen to that, that's true. However, we are expected to be able to do what we have to do at some point. One of our spearheads is our air combat capability and it is therefore particularly important that we also have the courage to take the decision that will have to be made, for now and for our children.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u71	Thank you, Minister. Mr De Vriendt has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u72	Mr. Secretary, I'll tell you what's in the interest of the Defense Department. It is in the interests of the defence sector to have objective procurement procedures, in which all the options are on the table and which Parliament can also consider. When Parliament asked if there were any studies available on the extension of the lifetime of the F-16s, a cabinet employee was informed to you. However, Parliament did not get to see these studies. Do you deny that the whistleblower has spent a year and a half trying to address that within his hierarchy? Do you deny that during the interrogation of one of the key witnesses, in that alleged internal audit, an internal investigation within the Defense Department, a phone came from your cabinet to influence that internal audit by suggesting that he sign a statement? Do you deny that the superiors of the whistleblower in internal mail traffic immediately warned, when Lockheed Martin's studies became known, not to let it leak because its contents should not become known? Minister, this procedure can only be stopped because it damages the trust between defence and politics at a time when Defence needs that trust. We, as politicians, as elected representatives, must be able to rely on the information that Defense provides us with. We can't do that anymore. We no longer know whether or not this information is objective. That is a particularly bitter observation. If you continue the procedure, Minister, you will make a historic mistake. At the moment we are still talking about the obus affair, Agusta and other matters, but if you simply act like nothing is going on and want to proceed to the order of the day, you, as the competent minister, will also be in the history books in 30 years' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u73	Minister, you asked an inspector-general to carry out an investigation and said that you would allow him to conduct his investigation completely freely. In that file, you are also personally at stake and my clog broke when I heard you describe it as normal that your personal military assistant contacted that inspector general to ask for information and to submit documents, purely for the purpose of estimating the risks you ran as a minister. Yesterday, Lockheed Martin confirmed what we have been saying since March 20th. A service life extension of six years is possible provided that measuring devices are installed on our aircraft. Colonel Letten said it would be good to install the measuring devices, even if the F-16s do not exceed 8 000 flight hours. Now I want to launch a call to buy time. To this end, I believe there is a willingness, with the exception of N-VA, to rely on the statement of the Foreign Minister and on the reactions of colleagues from Open Vld and CD&V. I call for the order to be postponed for six years, because it is about EUR 15 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u74	Mr Van der Maelen, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u75	There are technical doubts about the F-35. Several countries, including Canada, have cancelled their order.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u76	Mr Van der Maelen, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u77	If we have more time, we can make choices that allow us to develop our European defence with the full support of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u78	Mr Van der Maelen, last sentence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u79	Finally, it is also good that we have a better view of technical developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u80	Sorry, Mr Van der Maelen, this is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u81	In ten years, fighter planes may not be manned at all and anything happens to drones. (The President cut off the microphone)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u82	Minister, do you not pass on your answers to the N-VA Group in advance? After all, I find it a little strange that when I say that you intervened in the procedure, the whole group is saying that that is not true, that it is a disgrace and that I am lying, but that you say two minutes later that you did and that you had the right to do so. You must ensure a little coordination if you want to bring in some schwung, Minister. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have all heard that the Minister says he has intervened. He intervened in the internal audit and he says he had that right. It's not a problem for anyone here. There is an internal audit that should be independent. The minister intervenes and everyone says that this audit is indeed independent, that it is normal, that it has the right, and no one reacts. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u83	Of the majority. That's right! So, a minister intervenes. Mails are sent out to say that this cannot be made public. We've got a whistleblower that we're forced to sign documents. All this must help us to say, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no transparency in the matter. Yesterday, the top of the army told us that 500 to 600,000 documents were circulating within the army, that it was not possible to control them all. This is about documents, some of which are worth $15 billion. That is where the debate is. With so little transparency, one can wonder how much the minister is linked to the military-industrial complex. This morning, Mr. Reynders stated that those who are not in favour of extension are those who do not agree with our defence policy. That's right. That is the only point I agree with him on. Indeed, I do not agree with Belgium's defence policy because a defence policy with F-35s is not defence, it is attack, it is export our bombs. I'm saying here our bombs don't bring peace. It's very, very clear! The pacifist current will regain strength in Belgium to say that, no, the F-35 will not bring peace. You are right, Minister, that everything will come to an end. Start with the procedure for purchasing the F-35.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u84	Mr Minister, I would like to tell you that what the parliamentarians did yesterday for more than 12 hours is what you did not do: to be interested in the file, to ask questions, to seek to understand and to seek the truth. We did it yesterday for twelve hours, and you didn't. The only one lying here was you. No one in the opposition said that we should no longer meet our international obligations. No one in the opposition said that the safety of our pilots was not important. No one! We have repeatedly reiterated that these are our priorities. The only thing that is certain today is that at the head of the Grand Muette reigns a great deaf or a great blind. Despite the exchanges of yesterday, despite all the new facts, despite the hearings, you persist and sign in this indecent decision, despite the reasonable doubt. You and your government persist in this EUR 15 billion market, which is EUR 2,300 per taxpayer. Mr Reynders also persists. Besides, you make him lie by the way. I repeat, Mr Minister: the Socialist Group is calling for an immediate end to the procedure and for the dossier to be set straight.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u85	Minister, we continue to regret that the information contained in the memos has not come to us. You think that, we think, the CHOD thinks that, so I look forward to the measures you will take with regard to Defense to change the old communication culture anyway. If we had had that information, we would have been able to have that discussion two years ago and we would have known that our block 15 devices could not have been extended at all. That was confirmed last night. We would also have known that if we wanted to do so, we would have had to send planes to America, where they would have been dismantled and tested for three years to develop a new prototype that would have been applied to our old aircraft. That would cost a lot of money and offer no guarantee whatsoever and therefore the lifetime of the F-16 cannot be extended. Longer flying at no cost is a utopia. Anyone who claims that didn't listen yesterday. We learned that from Lockheed Martin last night. Mr Dallemagne, if you listened to Colonel Van Pee very carefully last night at 11 p.m., you know that he completely refuted the story of EUR 900 million. It's another matter that you don't believe it, but he totally refuted it. I'm rounding up. We look forward to the second day of hearings and then we will draw final conclusions, Minister. I suggest that you do the same and that you come to Parliament with a final conclusion rather than draw interim conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u86	Mr President, the Minister of Defence, it is not my habit, but I want to point out that you did not say a word in French. That's a bit of a problem in this case. Audits were provided in Dutch. The only officer who gets involved in the way this happens is francophone and another officer is left in a closet, his direct superior. We'll have to talk about it again. And I wonder, dear friends of the MR, what Mr.Ducarme would have thought under the previous legislature and Colonel Gennart. (...): Total silence!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u87	Yes, total silence. In the long run, it starts to be a little bit unpleasant. I also want to reply to Mr Vandeput, who tells us that Colonel Van Pee contradicted Colonel Decrop. That's a problem. This is a problem because the one he quotes here is the ACCap boss who is choosing the next plane. He has always told us: "I do not interfere with all this. That's not my role. It's not up to me to justify myself." And you have always said, minister, that these teams were completely waterproof and that they had nothing to do with each other. However, we have had the demonstration that this team is indeed interfering with the justifications for the non-extension of the F-16s. This is unacceptable! It proves that what you told us is wrong. You tell us today that this is a study that depends directly on you. But a month ago, the Prime Minister himself told us that this was an internal audit. Another counter-truth, it's not an internal audit. This is an investigation under the authority of the Minister of Defence. We now understand the mediocrity of this document and the fact that it is solely a charge against that officer. Again, we were lied to. Minister, I ask you to get out of this crisis. This case is rotten and I regret it. I regret that because we need a credible Defence. First, I ask that this scenario be seriously examined. I would like you to bring a serious document to the Defence Committee so that we can have an in-depth discussion of this scenario, which I believe is perfectly credible and serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u88	Mr. Dallemagne, you're exaggerating. Your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u89	Secondly, I ask for the suspension. Thirdly, I ask that a dossier be brought in so that we can build together a European Defence and take seriously the French proposal, which is an ambitious proposal, and that the Minister of Defence... [[Microcut]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u90	Mr Dallemagne, I'm sorry. The incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u91	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to return to a subject where we have less imagination, but where we go for the social media. You know that Facebook has announced that it will ask everyone to apply facial recognition. That is strange, because six years ago that idea was stranded after the intervention of the Irish Privacy Watchdog. Even this week there have been reports that a trial has started in the United States of America. The question is whether we are ready for that. We know that Facebook is already listening through the microphones of our cell phones. In the future, do we want them to search all the photos and videos, to see where, when and with whom some things are happening or where we are? That's future music. We know that Facebook already promises not to do any wrong business with that information. However, I fear that the last few weeks have not been a model of the guarantees that Facebook offers in this respect. We therefore have the right to ask ourselves questions. However, Facebook is not alone. They announce this now, but Google, for example, already does that, although under a slightly different name, being a group of faces, which is an original name. People are asked to give their permission. For those who do not, the good message is that the person concerned will miss all kinds of things, so that they can draw a few people over the line. It goes even further. I've been going through what they say. They say very nicely that those who give permission not only give permission for themselves but also because of any person who appears on the photos, which seems to me to be a very big problem. I understand that people are worried about that and are asking questions about it. I would therefore like to know how you look at this evolution in your capacity as Secretary of State. I have some simple questions. First of all, how do you stand up to Facebook's announcement? How are you looking at that announcement? Secondly, do you think what Google is already doing is acceptable? If Mrs Kitir would like to listen, I can continue with my question. I repeat my questions. Firstly, how do you position yourself against the facial recognition announced by Facebook? Secondly, what is your opinion on what Google is already doing? Can that be accepted, or do you want to do something about that practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u92	Mr President, Mr Wollants, when I saw Facebook's page-sized ads this week about protecting their customers' privacy, I thought that we were sometimes accused of being cynical in politics. Well, I think Facebook is the exponent of that. Like you, I'm concerned about this movement. On the one hand, there is a call to think carefully about the privacy settings when one is on Facebook and a lot of roll-out is done to ask people to do so. On the other hand, one can no longer use Facebook if one would not accept facial recognition. You know that the Belgian Privacy Commission has taken the lead in protecting people's data and privacy, especially with regard to social media companies. We have recently won a case against Facebook, which is now being dealt with further in appeal. It is true that the Belgian Privacy Commission really has the lead. We have asked the other European privacy committees to get a special working group on social media within the Working Party 29, the collection of all European privacy committees. Then we can effectively check whether the Facebooks, the Google, the Snapchats and the Instagrams of this world align themselves with the new European privacy legislation that will come to us from 25 May. This legislation offers far more protection and transparency than what exists today for consumers. It is a step in the right direction. I therefore call on the Working Party 29 to express its opinion quickly and clearly on the proposals made by Facebook on a European scale. In this way, we can limit the current excessive data collection of these companies. The new European GDPR can then be applied fully and transparently.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u93	Mr Secretary of State, it is indeed important that we stand up for citizens' privacy rights. We must inform everyone about this. As you point out, we also need to screen the other services. When I was just going through the rules that Google is now applying, I actually came to the conclusion that I can take a picture of everyone in this room and Google can promise that I have their permission. As a result, they may suddenly use the facial profiles of everyone in this hemisphere, at least of those present. That worries me. So I look forward very much to the results of the screening. After all, our citizens are not aware at the moment of what is being put forward in the fine print. The technology companies are not always very helpful in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u94	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u95	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u96	Pursuant to Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure, a limited general discussion will take place in plenary. In accordance with rule 116 of the Rules, the bill is the subject of limited general discussion in plenary. The limited general discussion is open. The limited general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The limited general discussion is closed. The limited general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u97	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2797/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2797/3) The draft law has 11 articles. The bill has 11 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u98	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u99	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Luk Van Biesen, Benoît Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u100	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Robert Van de Velde, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u101	Mr President, I welcome the presence of the Minister of Budget. As part of the debate on Commissioner Van Biesen's bill, some colleagues wanted – but were not followed – the opinion of the Budget Minister on this bill to be sought. I would like to take this opportunity to hear his views on the subject. I will give the opinion of the Ecolo-Groen Group on this proposal. We believe that research is important and that health research is even more important. We believe that its financing must be ensured first and foremost by public means, so that we can determine its direction according to the general interest rather than to particular interests, which sometimes dominate the logic of health – which is then no longer public – in our country. We can trust, we can delegate our trust to university hospitals. The proposal by Mr Van Biesen, who likes to make gifts, especially when he is not the one who has to bear the burden, is rather sympathetic, even if we consider that the funding of research must be provided more through its own means than through a tax liberality. We intend to support this proposal by Mr Van Biesen, although we have taken note of the fact that the majority was not unanimous on the subject, since the representatives of the Budget Minister's party voted against the text in the Finance Committee and they have been absent from other work on bills with a potential budgetary impact, in my opinion to prevent new alternative majorities. This is a small dissension within the majority. This may happen but I see that this happens more and more often, and on various and varied themes. The Ecolo-Green Group will support this text. But, prior to this vote, we want to hear the opinion of the Budget Minister on this proposal and, in general, on any proposal that could have a budgetary impact because we have a lot of ideas on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u102	Mr President, I did not want to take the floor today because we do not need to repeat the committee's discussion here. I regret the undertone, which says that we are again giving a gift to a particular institution here. What we really want to achieve with this bill is that sufficient resources are made available to scientific research in university hospitals, under whatever structure. Actually, it's about that last one. We extend it to other forms of company structures, which can take on this. That is what we are doing today, at the explicit request of the university institutions. This question has come to our attention both from the French-speaking and the Dutch-speaking sides. That is why this bill is before us, co-signed by my very good colleague from the MR, Mr Piedboeuf. That is why we are defending this. So it's not a new gift. It's just stimulating scientific research in university hospitals, and this under any form.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u103	Mr President, this is a simple matter. It seems to me that this text responds to something that might appear to be an anomaly: the absence of a tax exemption for concessions, donations, which can be made to approved hospitals. This seemed to us to be able to meet the membership of the PS group. In fact, we support this bill. But there was some confusion in the ranks of the majority. Perhaps it would be useful if, on the part of the majority, those who, visibly today, have a difficulty with this bill could explain the state of their thinking. I support Mr Gilkinet's request for the opinion of the Minister of Budget. It seemed to me that the difficulties could come from this side. In fact, it also seemed to me that some members of the majority (Mr. Van Rompuy, Mr. Van Biesen) directly attacking Mrs Wilmès, who was not there to defend himself. People will appreciate it. It seems to me that there is something symptomatic about the relations between some members of the majority, and in particular the assessment of the budget work of the Budget Minister, who still works within a government. She's not the only one to decide. I note that some parliamentarians of the majority are no longer in line with the decisions taken within the government. All this is a little weird and a little confused, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u104	Mr President, if I may, I am not going to go into the details of the surprising diverging positions, on a matter such as this, within the majority. My colleague, Mr Benoît Dispa, has already had the opportunity to do so. Just as he did in committee, I see these tensions in the majority. I allow myself to go beyond what seems to me to be the order of "politicia" to return to the essentials, to the bottom of the file. Today, the liberalities granted to university hospitals can benefit from a particular tax regime, whereas this is not the case for foundations that are directly attached to these university hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you, including those who are not so in favour of this text, that the gifts and donations made to these foundations are, as my colleague has said, particularly devoted to research. But they are also, through a series of projects, dedicated to patients. I hope that we will all be committed to supporting this proposal. Somewhere, it was an anomaly that existed and needed to be corrected. We will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u105	Mr President, we discussed this proposal in detail in committee. It is an anomaly in the legislation. Gifts to foundations, linked to recognised university hospitals, should be subject to a better tax regime. This is a legislative proposal and I believe that a legislative proposal should be able to be dealt with in the same way as a draft law. It's about a bill that detects and remedys an anomaly in the legislation. Moreover, this tax regime concerns a very limited amount. In the federal budget, there are revenues of around EUR 100 billion. This is not even about EUR 600 000 to EUR 700 000. That is a limited but meaningful amount because it can stimulate donations to foundations. This is a parliamentary initiative. I believe that Parliament should also be able to look at, discuss and approve legislative proposals. We are aware that this cannot make any sense in the budget. A Parliament serves to eliminate such anomalies, which would certainly not be corrected by the government. Other subjects have also been dealt with in the same way in recent months. The fact that not everyone always agrees with everything seems to me to be self-evident. Bills are dealt with in a committee. I think it is important to ensure that a large majority of people support his proposal. If a group has problems with that, it is its right, but that does not mean that this is not a good legislation that is also budgetaryly justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u106	Mr President, I agree very well with the Budget Minister, which did not prevent me from co-signing this proposal with Luk Van Biesen because it was a matter of fixing an anomaly. Knowing the subject matter, I directly supported Mr. Van Biesen. On the day of the commission, I was also called in the Health Committee. In fact, sometimes we're going through some bad ones! You have experience in this field in the Walloon Region! As far as this proposal is concerned, I was not in committee as was the Budget Minister on the day it had to be voted on. But with regard to the functioning of government, Parliament and the way we work, in general, we like to have an evaluation of the proposals tabled by the Budget Office. My colleagues didn't have it and I wasn't there to share the information with them. As a result, they voted against. However, the MR Group will enthusiastically support the proposal, since the information has been transmitted all the more since I co-signed it and we have received the approval of the Budget Minister. The statements of each other are amusing, but that is still the case. With regard to Mr Gilkinet's comments on research funding, we are also in favour of this by public means. But it is also smart to go for private resources as research will benefit from it because it is very important. If the impact is seen in the budgetary framework, it will be resources available to research. We are therefore very pleased to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u107	Mr. President, I was here for the accounts, but they went blue. The discussion of the 2016 accounts seems to me to be able to be carried out in an important and consistent way. That was not Parliament's choice. You know that we are at your disposal to answer your questions if there are any. I have stayed here to satisfy Parliament's desire to have a member of the government in this chamber all the time. This gives me the opportunity to answer your question, Mr Gilkinet, although I had not planned to be there. It does not seem to me at all abnormal – I do not answer in the place of the MR Group – that, when a proposal is put on the table, however good on the substance, a preliminary study is carried out by the functional firms concerning its probable cost, supposed, or even its budgetary neutrality. I would remind you that – I was not present in committee at that time – on the day of the committee meeting, we had not received a formal memorandum from the finance cabinet that could enlighten parliamentarians who remained free of their choice. The parliamentary initiative remains. At that time, there was no note indicating the cost as low or as high as it was or the neutrality that was found to be. Why? Because the finance firm only gave a note during the holidays, that is after the commission was held. Of course, the Budget took note of this note and forwarded it. Without taking a formal decision on the substance, I believe that this is a very good proposal and that it is budgetaryly neutral. It does not seem to me to be unusual for parliamentarians to have wondered about the cost of this proposal when it was tabled on the table. Indeed, we cannot demand that we have finances in order and not look more closely, when it suits us, at the cost of the proposals. This seems to me to be a matter of consistency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u108	I said, without any ambiguity, on behalf of the Ecolo-Groen Group that we would vote in favour of this text. I have noted a difficulty that we have had in dealing with this text, since we are used to it, and I think it is right in the Committee on Finance to assess the budgetary impact of a text. As interesting as it is, Mr. Piedboeuf, to attract private resources to important causes such as research, so much as it has a budgetary cost, in the form of a tax expenditure. It is normal to pay attention to the importance of this cost. We all have extraordinary dreams. There are a number of ecological proposals that are particularly useful in preparing for the future, which could be voted on without the budgetary impact for the future being measured. There is sometimes a logic with variable geometry. Maybe I'll propose to Mr. Van Biesen will co-sign our excellent texts and then they will be more likely to be supported. The incident due to the lack of a note by the Minister of Finance and the absence of Mr. Piedboeuf in committee is closed, with the Minister of Budget's statement that the budgetary impact is neutral. I confess that I find it difficult to understand your equation, but I can imagine that, if it is not neutral, it is not very important in budgetary terms and quite sustainable and useful in terms of the purpose of the research. I conclude by saying that, for us, research is important and that we will support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u109	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u110	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2536/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2536-5) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u111	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u112	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Kattrin Jadin, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u113	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2956/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2956-3) The draft law has 27 articles. The bill has 27 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u114	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u115	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these three draft laws. I propose that you devote one discussion to these three bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u116	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Wouter Raskin and Mrs Nahima Lanjri, refer to their written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u117	We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2947. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2947/3) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2947. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2947/3) The draft law has 12 articles. The bill has 12 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u118	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2948. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2948/3) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2948. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2948/3) The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u119	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2949. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2949/3) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2949. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2949/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u120	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u121	On Tuesday 27 March 2018, delegations of the Chamber and of the Council of the French Community Commission held consultations on the conflict of interest relating to the draft law on economic relance and the strengthening of social cohesion, No. 2839. On Tuesday, March 27, 2018, a consultation took place between a delegation from the Chamber and the Assembly of the French Community Commission on the conflict of interest concerning the draft law on economic recovery and the strengthening of social cohesion, No. 2839. By letter of 17 April 2018, the President of the Chamber shall inform the President of the Senate that consultations between the delegation of the Council of the French Community Commission and the delegation of the Chamber of Representatives have not led to a solution. By letter dated April 17, 2018, the President of the Chamber informed the President of the Senate that the consultation between the delegation of the Assembly of the French Community Commission and the delegation of the House of Representatives had not led to a solution. I would remind you that Article 32 (1) of the ordinary law of 9 August 1980 provides for the reform of the institutions: if the consultation does not lead to a solution within the 60-day period, the dispute shall be brought before the Senate, which shall deliver a reasoned opinion within 30 days to the Consultative Committee which shall decide within 30 days in accordance with the procedure of the consensus. I would remind you that Article 32, paragraph 1 quater, paragraph 1, of the ordinary law of 9 August 1980 on institutional reforms provides that if the conciliation procedure has not been completed within 60 days, the Senate shall be seized of the dispute and shall deliver, within 30 days, a reasoned opinion to the Concertation Committee which shall issue a decision in accordance with the consensus procedure within 30 days.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u122	The terms of reference of the members of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on Embroidery Experiments in vitro expired on 21 June 2016. The terms of office of the members of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos expired on June 21, 2016. In accordance with Article 9 (2) of the Law of 11 May 2003 on embryo research in vitro, the Commission shall consist of: - eight doctors (four effective members and four alternates); - eight PhDs in science (four effective members and four alternates); - four lawyers (two effective members and two alternates); - eight experts in the ethical and social sciences (four effective members and four alternates). In accordance with Article 9(2) of the Act of 11 May 2003 on research into in vitro embryos, the Commission shall consist of: - eight medical doctors (four actual members and four alternates); - eight science doctors (four actual members and four alternates); - four jurists (two actual members and two alternates); - eight experts in ethical matters and social sciences (four active members and four alternates). The composition of the committee ensures a balanced representation of the various ideological and philosophical aspects. The Commission shall have no less than one third of the same sex. She has as many Dutch-speaking members as French-speaking members. An alternate with the same qualification shall be appointed for each effective member. The composition of the Commission shall ensure that the various ideological and philosophical tendencies are represented in a balanced manner. The Commission may not count less than one third of the members of each sex. It has as many French-speaking members as Dutch-speaking members. For each effective member, an alternate who has the same qualifications shall be appointed. The effective members and alternates shall be appointed by the Chamber by a simple majority of the votes cast. The actual members and alternates shall be appointed by the Chamber, by a simple majority of the votes cast. The term of office of effective Member of the Commission shall be four years and renewable. Where appropriate, the alternate shall complete the term of office of the working member. The effective member's term of office shall be four years and shall be renewable. Where appropriate, the alternate member shall complete the term of office of the effective member. After three calls for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal by the Public Health Office, the following applications were submitted: After three calls for candidates published in the Belgian Monitor by the SPF Santé publique, the following applications were submitted: 1. Category "doctors' - Mrs Diane De Neubourg (N) - Mrs Fabienne Devreker (F) - mevrouw Sophie Perrier d'Hauterive (F) - Mr Robert Rubens (N) Mrs Karen Sermon (N) - Mr Yves Sznajer (F) - Mr Willem Verpoest (N) 1. Category "Medical Doctors" - Mme Diane De Neubourg (N) - Mrs Fabienne Devreker (F) - Ms. Sophie Perrier d'Hauterive (F) - Mr Robert Rubens (N) - Mme Karen Sermon (N) - M. Yves Sznajer (F) - M. Willem Verpoest (N) 2. Category "doctors in science" - Mrs Sophie Debrock (N) - Mrs Virginie Gridelet (F) - Mr Björn Heindryckx (N) - Ms Usha Punjabi (N) - Mr Charles Susanne (F) - Mr Joris Vermeesch (N) 2. Category "Science Doctors" - Ms. Sophie Debrock (N) - Ms. Virginie Gridelet (F) - M. Björn Heindryckx (N) - Ms. Usha Punjabi (N) - Mr. Charles Susanne (F) - M. Joris Vermeesch (N) 3. Category "lawyers' - Mrs Emilie Bekaert (N) - Mrs Eleanor Coets (F) - Mr Sven Gondry (N) - mevrouw Géraldine Mathieu (F) - Ms Sarah Panis (N) - Mrs Alexandra Vanvooren (N) - Mr Geoffrey Willems (F) 3. Legal category - Ms. Emilie Bekaert (N) - Mme Eleanor Coets (F) - M. Sven Gondry (N) - Ms. Géraldine Mathieu (F) - Ms. Sarah Panis (N) - Mme Alexandra Vanvooren (N) - Mr Geoffrey Willems (F) 4. Category "experts in ethical problems and social sciences" - Mr Jean-Marc Hausman (F) - mevrouw Joséphine Lemaire (F) - Mrs Heidi Mertes (N) - Mr Guido Pennings (N) - Mrs Kelly Tilleman (N) Mrs Hilde Van de Velde (N) 4. Category "Ethics and Social Science Experts" - Mr. Jean-Marc Hausman (F) - Ms. Josephine Lemaire (F) - Ms. Heidi Mertes (N) - M. Guido Pennings (N) - Mme Kelly Tilleman (N) - Mme Hilde Van de Velde (N) In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 April 2018, I propose to deliver the curriculum vitae of candidates to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 April 2018, I propose that you transmit the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u123	By letter dated 29 March 2018, Ms Rose-Marie Farineau resigned as a member of the Supervisory Body on the police information. By letter dated 29 March 2018, Rose-Marie Farineau resigned as a member of the Police Information Review Body. The Chamber of Representatives should appoint a new member of the Supervisory Body for the mandate of female French-speaking member of the local police. The House of Representatives must appoint a new member of the Supervisory Body to serve as a francophone female member of the local police. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 April 2018, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 April 2018, I propose that you publish a call for candidates for the Belgian Monitor. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u124	The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of the Chairman of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services. The next item is the election to appoint the Chair of the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services. The mandate of the Chairman of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services, Mr Guy Rapaille, shall expire on 19 July 2018. The term of office of the Chair of the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services, Guy Rapaille, expires on July 19, 2018. In accordance with Article 30 of the Law of 18 July 1991 regulating the supervision of police and intelligence services and the coordination body for threat analysis, the members of the Committee I shall be appointed for a renewable term of six years starting from their swearing-in. At the end of that period, members shall continue to perform their duties until their successor is sworn in. Pursuant to article 30 of the Law of 18 July 1991 on the Control of Police and Intelligence Services and the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis, the members of the R Committee are appointed for a renewable term of six years, beginning from the date of their swearing-in. At the end of this term, the members shall remain in office until the swearing-in of their replacement. Mr Serge Lipszyc's candidacy was announced at the plenary session of 15 March 2018. Mr. Serge Lipszyc's candidacy was announced in plenary session on March 15, 2018. The committee responsible for supervising the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee I heard Mr Serge Lipszyc on 27 March 2018. This hearing was reported at the Conference of Presidents of 18 April 2018. The Monitoring Committee of Standing Committee P and Standing Committee R heard Mr. Serge Lipszyc on March 27, 2018. Report of this hearing was made at the Conference of Presidents on 18 April 2018. Since there is only one candidate, Mr Serge Lipszyc may, pursuant to Article 157 No. 6, of the Rules of Procedure, shall be declared President of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of the Intelligence and Security Services. Since there is only one candidate, the House may declare Mr. Serge Lipszyc elected as Chairman of the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services, pursuant to Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of the House. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u125	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 April 2018, I also propose the proposal for a resolution (Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Dirk Van der Maelen, Jacques Chabot, Ahmed Laaouej and Stéphane Crusnière) on the implementation of effective protection of whistleblowers in the Ministry of Defence and in all federal services, No. 3042/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u126	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 April 2018, I also propose that you take into account the motion for a resolution (Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez and MM. Dirk Van der Maelen, Jacques Chabot, Ahmed Laaouej and Stéphane Crusnière) to implement effective protection of whistleblowers within the Ministry of Defence and all federal services, No. 3042/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u127	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u128	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 118 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 128 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u129	Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2797/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2797/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u130	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 118 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2536/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be passed as a bill with Royal Assent. (25366) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u131	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2956/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2956/04)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u132	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 126 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2947/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2947/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u133	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 126 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2948/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2948/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u134	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 127 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2949/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2949/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-19-54-plenair-ip223x.u135	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Wednesday 25 April 2018 and Thursday 26 April 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sittings of Wednesday, April 25, 2018 and Thursday, April 26, 2018. On Wednesday afternoon we will discuss the report of the Committee of Inquiry on the amicable settlement. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 25 April 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday 25 April 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
