ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u1	Muriel Gerkens, president: Colleagues, Mr Jean-Marc Delizée and I have decided to keep this meeting of the two committees together this morning, although President Bracke informed us on Friday late in the afternoon that we would not yet receive the report on the AFSCA, as was announced by the ministers. Indeed, the King's prosecutor had to ensure that the confidentiality of the proceedings was respected. Of course, the ministers will give us more information about the process in a moment. Nevertheless, we have chosen to maintain the meeting, as each day brings us its share of information. A new case of export to Kosovo was revealed this weekend. In addition, parliamentary questions have been attached to the report. We propose that you give the floor first to the ministers to explain the state of the matter. Then we will organize our work based on the information we may have obtained. We would like to receive a redacted version of the report, if necessary, and see how to deal with the follow-up of the file. Jean-Marc Delizée, president: Mevrouw de minister, minister, mijnheer de Kamervoorzitter, collega's, last Thursday, in plenary session, the minister announced the transmission this Friday of the AFSCA report, a report that was very much awaited by all colleagues. The more the hours went by, the more the colleagues called for this report. Following telephone conversations with the Speaker of the House, Mr. Bracke, who is present with us, we learned at approximately 5:00 p.m. that the prosecution was opposed, at any rate at this stage, to the transmission of the report to Parliament. This, of course, poses a problem of democratic functioning, since if Parliament wants to exercise its supervisory role, it must of course be able to have this report. Therefore, the Speaker of the Chamber wrote to the Attorney General to request as soon as possible a report, possibly redacted, of elements that might be problematic in the proceedings. No one wants to give a gift to the parties involved in the ongoing investigation, of course. On the other hand, the debate is also the work and function of the control of the executive by Parliament. Mr. Speaker of the House, we thank you for taking this step. We obviously had little hope between Friday, the end of the afternoon, and this Monday morning, of having this document already. Nevertheless, I would like to reiterate that I should like to ask the Attorney General and the Minister of Justice for a report to allow us to debate its content. Today, as Mrs Gerkens has proposed, we will hear from the Minister, first of all on these procedural issues. We put the order of business on the agenda. How do we organize our work according to the circumstances? We have planned an exchange of views with the ministers. A few questions are attached to the debate. We also know that new elements have emerged this weekend. I do not know if we are now opening the procedural issue. I would propose to allow the minister to explain the situation. We will then take a tour of colleagues on how to work. Can we do this? Muriel Gerkens, Chair: It would still be wise for parliamentarians to have information. I note that a full report will be prepared. It is therefore not necessary to appoint a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 15 March 2018 at 19:12 we received the report from the BFSA, which I requested on 7 March 2018. This report is an extensive file. It contains an introduction of ten pages, nine ring directories and a signataire. After a first reading I asked the BFSA a number of additional questions. The day after, the BFSA had me deliver a tenth ringmap. However, the introduction prepared by the Agency mentioned the following. I quote: "In view of the limited time available to us, it was not possible to examine for all documents whether or not they should be released in respect of privacy or possible interference with the judicial investigation." This document also mentions on page 6: "I would like to point out to the Minister that these documents are confidential and should not be given to third parties." That is why I contacted the Minister of Justice on 16 March. I informed him of these indications. I also asked him whether or not we could transfer all the documents that were delivered to us by the BFSA to Parliament. By e-mail of Friday 16 March, which my cabinet immediately transmitted to the President of the House, the Minister of Justice informs me of the following: "The Attorney General of Liège informs me of his decision to retain the transmission of the AFSCA report on Veviba to Parliament, before he has been able to browse all the documents that form part of the report in substance and in annex. The Attorney General is convinced that this verification is necessary from a point of view of the secrecy of the investigation, the violation of which could have serious consequences relating to the validity of any subsequent criminal proceedings. The Attorney General assured me that he would complete his work as quickly as possible so that Parliament could dispose of the report next week." May I remind you that this e-mail is dated Friday, March 16. This decision seems legitimate to me. The secret of the investigation is, after all, a fundamental principle in our criminal proceedings. At this stage, therefore, I cannot release the documents delivered to me by the Agency. I would, of course, like this report to be forwarded to Parliament as soon as possible. However, I intend to go back to some fundamental elements. Communicating documents that are subject to the secrecy of the investigation could lead to the nullity of the entire proceedings. In this context, I would make myself an accomplice to the fraudsters by offering them a legal victory. I know that, like me, you want to prevent this from happening. We filed a civil action in this case on 15 March. So it's done. We did it to get access to all the documents in the file. Our lawyer is also awaiting the disclosure of all the documents in the file. That does not mean, Madam President and Mr President, that all these documents can be communicated to Parliament. Many of them are likely to remain covered by the secrecy of the investigation. This will allow us to see if we should take further action on food security. I obviously agree, Mr President, with what you said about democratic functioning. Democracy is based on the separation of powers. That is a fundamental principle. As a member of the executive, I naturally have to submit to the request made in this context. The balance would be that the work done by the Public Prosecutor's Office in this regard would be extremely rapid, so that the legislative power would have access to these documents. I count too many years as a parliamentarian; I have too much esteem for parliamentary work and too much respect for parliamentarians themselves not to call for justice to be swift. It is obvious that as soon as I have the green light from the prosecutor's office, the whole case will be forwarded to the Chamber. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since the report must first be looked at by the courts, we are here with many Members of Parliament to say little about it, nothing really. Nevertheless, this weekend has brought new facts to the media. It is important to know that there have been no consequences for food safety. The company itself mentioned a human error. That's gonna have to decide the court. That does not alter the fact that this should have been avoided. Muriel Gerkens , President : We will now move on to the reactions of the members. Mr. Nollet, Mr. de Lamotte, Mr. Thiéry, Ms. Lambrecht and Mr. Senesael.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u4	Madam President, Mr President, Mr Ducrame, I do not want to hide from you that this is a problem in various ways. Indeed, we had a debate last week and agreed to pursue it on a series of questions for which the answers had not been brought, notably in the head of the AFSCA. You'll remember that. He was sitting by your side and referred many questions to the continuation of our work. Today, we are told that this report has been brought before the Court of Justice, but if we go back to the process, it is in fact the AFSCA which itself asks that parliamentarians not be able to have access to the entire report, since it puts in this report elements, if I have noted correctly on page 6, that they are confidential. In short, it prevents us from having the necessary debate today. I also note that the AFSCA is not represented in the rostrum. That is one of the reasons why I have asked for the floor. I would like you to confirm that she was invited to do so and to continue our discussions. I regret all the more, in the situation of blockage in which we are, Minister, that the executive – and that is normal – has the report, that the legislative power has the report and that some media have reported that they were able to consult it. The only ones who do not have the report are parliamentarians, and we should accept that without reacting! In the first television exchanges this weekend, I heard the Attorney General react by separating and distinguishing the report and its annexes. I ask you the question, Madam Chair, Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister: is it not possible for parliamentarians to receive the report and for the annexes to be received after some form of validation of the availability of the principle of presumption of innocence? Indeed, in the report, the only elements provided by AFSCA are presented as part of its own analysis. The second request that I address to you, Madam Chair, Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, is whether, in the wake of what was presented this weekend by the Attorney General in his communication, we can distinguish the ten-page report – if I have heard correctly – from the multiple binders and annexes?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u5	As I said when I quoted the e-mail of the Minister of Justice relaying the Attorney General's request, it echoes well and I quote: "The Attorney General of Liège informs me of his decision to retain the transmission of the AFSCA report on Veviba to Parliament before he has been able to browse all the documents in the report in substance and in the annex." It is therefore aimed at all the parts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u6	In relation to this, I consider that an analysis of a ten-page document which would have allowed and which, it seems to me, would still allow a real parliamentary debate to be a fair solution. It seems to me that contacts with the Attorney General were made by the Speaker of the House. However, in such situations, access to a minimum number of documents for parliamentarians cannot be systematically deferred. Having said that, I would not like you, Mr Minister, to take advantage of the fact that this report has not yet been made accessible to us in order not to answer the questions that we tabled in time last week, apart from any knowledge of the report, since, first of all, questions have been raised last week and have not been answered by the committee on this subject this week and, secondly, a series of conclusions are clear today and must be drawn accordingly today. I would like to say that because you yourself, Minister, testified on television this weekend that you have been strengthened in your analysis as a result of your reading of the report. I therefore hope that you will not be tempted to escape the continuation of a debate started last week on the pretext that parliamentarians do not have the report when the construction of this impossibility is obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u7	Madam President, I would like to say a few words about the agenda. We could read everything in the press this weekend. I see an exchange of views with the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, SMEs, Agriculture and Social Integration, in the presence of representatives of the BFSA. Where's the BFSA? It's not because we don't have the report, a report that might have leaked someone to De Tijd, that we don't have any questions to the BFSA. Last week there were three ministers here, now two. In fact, four ministers should be here today, namely the Minister for Agriculture, the Minister for Consumers, the Minister for Health and the Minister for Justice. Where's the Attorney General? 'Cause that's what it's about. Where's the top guy at the BFSA? Last time I had 17 questions, I have at least 18 now. It's about how it works. Can anyone be called from the BFSA now, because it says on the agenda that there would be a representation of the BFSA here? Muriel Gerkens , President Mrs Lambrecht, you received a corrected agenda following the information that we did not have the report. Whether or not the AFSCA is present is a decision of the Minister who has the authority to do so. It's not parliament. As regards the presence of all ministers, this is an organisation between the various ministers concerned. On the agenda, last version, which was forwarded to you, the Minister of Agriculture and Food Security and the Minister of Health were registered. I understand your frustration. Nevertheless, the organization of work is that. The Minister will respond to all members of the Commission regarding the absence of the PSAB. I know you all want to say something about it. I shall therefore pass the floor to the other members of the committee for their questions on the annex report, on the elements of the report in the press, on the absence of AFSCA and some ministers. I therefore give the floor to Mr Thiéry and then to Mr de Lamotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u8	Madam President, I hear Mrs Lambrecht well, but we must first and foremost remain calm in this debate today. Thank you, Madam President, for following the order of the motions for speakers. It's an elementary principle. Some speak without the consent of the presidents. I find it limited to colleagues. I come back to the first committee that took place last week. The debate was extremely constructive. I would also like to thank Mr Nollet, in a way, and the presidents for having agreed to place the meeting this Monday rather than last Friday, because we would not have had the elements in hand anyway but to move forward. Today we are meeting with, on the agenda, the frauds found in the slaughterhouse and processing units in Veviba. In addition to this, I hear that the Attorney-General of Liège has retained the report for reasons peculiar to him and which we do not have to contest. Things are clear. I hear Mr Nollet calling, at all costs, for Members to have this report available on an exceptional basis. To my knowledge, this would be a precedent. Who are we to say to the prosecutor that, because the Joint Committee is asking for this, Members should have this report when an investigation is clearly under way? It makes sense that you don't want to pass it on. That makes perfect sense. As far as we are concerned, the most important thing is to clarify, in full transparency, what happened in the Veviba dossier. If other dossiers which are not on the agenda are added, we can still discuss them again. But it is not the purpose of the meeting that we are dealing with. By asking for this report immediately - which the prosecutor will probably refuse us - there is a risk of a procedural error that would prevent us from doing our work in full transparency. We know very well that it is always possible to find procedural errors from the moment we do not do things as predefined. We would take a huge risk by ignoring the instructions of the Attorney General's Office and asking that this report be submitted to us before it is examined. Finally, as I understand it, according to Mr. Nollet, it is the AFSCA that prevents the transmission of this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u9	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u10	Unless I am mistaken, it is nevertheless the Office of the Attorney-General that clearly indicates that it is retaining the report, for the time being, because elements can be extremely important for the further investigation. Again, I would not like to make members of this committee and public opinion believe that we do not want to go further in the debates, simply because it could please the majority or others. What is fundamental is full transparency in the file. If we take the slightest risk - all those who have already participated in parliamentary committees of inquiry know - there are sometimes leaks that can be a problem in our work. This situation must be avoided in order to be able to work in an orderly and, above all, in depth. As far as I am concerned, in view of the agenda as proposed, we have only one thing to do: to note that the report is not available. I am therefore clearly asking for the point to be deferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u11	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u12	Thank you for letting me make it clear!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u13	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u14	Mr Calvo, I know you well enough and I know that you have easy semantics and verbs, including in French - that's right - but Mr Nollet too. We have an agenda. I ask that we stick to it. However, how can we be able to work unrelatedly? I wonder.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u15	That's a good question! Muriel Gerkens, Chair: We will be organizing further work following statements by the members who have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u16	Madam President, I had also come here with the intention of obtaining further information. Transparency must be complete vis-à-vis the citizen and the consumer. I also regret the absence of the Minister for Consumer Protection. He had attended the first meeting. I have questions to ask him and wonder when I'll be able to address them to him. Jean-Marc Delizée, president: You can still table them tomorrow, because he will come Wednesday afternoon for a meeting at which he will answer questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u17	Mr President, of course we will. However, here we are talking about a specific case. Secondly, I would like us to be able to obtain the report from Mrs and Mr.Ministers as soon as possible, as soon as the prosecutor has given his approval. The executive received the report, as did the judiciary. Democracy, in any case, is based on a tripod. That is why the legislature must also receive the necessary information. I would not like us to drag on to this very serious dossier, which I refuse to give him a commission and which concerns a very sensitive sector, awaiting clarification. I am talking in particular about farmers, farmers and other players in the circuit who need to be kept informed. Mr Minister, since the justice system has informed you that a report will be published this week, I would like to see that, as soon as it is transmitted, we can meet again. Otherwise, there would still be the possibility of setting up a parliamentary committee of inquiry. The AFSCA clearly failed in some of its duties. We will probably see in the report that there are still questions relating to the time line and the way in which those concerned have been warned. Has justice been "stimulated" to make contact with AFSCA and to move forward in this report? Instead, I feel like we've been slow in processing the files. I therefore think that we should avoid delaying this report in order to have this report as soon as possible. Minister, between last Monday and today has passed a week. We stressed the need and asked for an audit with parliamentary scrutiny. However, after a week, in your preliminary presentation, you did not report to us on the actions you have taken in relation to this audit with parliamentary scrutiny, such as an accompanying committee, as requested. I think you need to commit yourself and tell us the content of this audit, how it will be conducted, with whom. Has a specification already been drawn up? Has a call for tenders been sent? What is the speed of action on this subject? How have you decided on these elements? In a first round, Madam President, these are the questions I wanted to ask the government on this subject. I repeat: many actors are waiting for clarification on this: farmers, farmers, but also consumers. We can't wait. I repeat my request to have the report available this week. Otherwise, we will go further in the process towards a committee of inquiry. This could lead to a request from Parliament on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u18	Madam President, when it comes to food safety, public opinion is always very vigilant because we get food on our plates every day. It is therefore difficult to overestimate the importance of this case. Great transparency is obvious in this respect, especially since careless communication can cause damage very quickly, which is only difficult to repair afterwards. Premature conclusions are drawn, in a sort of splash to the media, to be the most criminal defender of public health. This does not always promote the seriousness of the handling of the dossier, as we can regularly see. That was also the case during the holiday, when we dealt with the fipronil case here. Early profiling of politicians sometimes got in the way of correct information. This Parliament must exercise a supervisory function. Given what is on the table here, that function must also be performed. If you say today, Minister, that you cannot have the debate on Veviba announced today, at the request of the public prosecutor, that is an important fact. We must not run the risk of making legal proceedings more difficult. Having said that, it cannot serve as an excuse to withhold documents from Parliament for too long. Within this context, I can partly agree with the previous speaker on the subject of 'temporarily'. I urge the honourable Ministers to make efforts so that we can have that debate this week. The parquet has its rights. We must respect them. However, Parliament has the same. Serious treatment is more important than rapid treatment, but if this argument is used to delay the case for a long time, then public opinion is once again given the impression that all kinds of things are being hidden. We cannot accept that from Parliament. On the other hand, there have been other developments in recent days. I am very pleased that you yourself have said a few words about this proactively, Madam Minister, because there too, of course, there has been a certain impression of public opinion. The company involved has communicated very quickly and extensively, but I do not know if all the questions have been answered. I would hope so, but of course that dossier is also important and is on the table. I have no knowledge of the fact that the public prosecutor would have asked to observe the silence on this issue, so I think an answer to questions that would bubbling up on that can be expected. I repeat, however, that we must respect the wishes of the public prosecutor today, but with the commitment that this week we could also deal with that part in detail and with the necessary documentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u19	Madam President, I did not immediately receive an e-mail at home indicating that the committee meeting could have taken place after 15 minutes, because there is a judicial investigation. All the information about the investigations and the fact that we will not get the report, I read in the press last weekend. First of all, I would like to make a comment on this. We are Parliament, the representatives of the people, and we must be told through Belga and other media that we will not get the report. I don't think that's normal. I don't think it's normal for the report that we don't get to be leaked to De Tijd, if I may be allowed to advertise. Nor would it be normal for me to be unable to ask my questions, with which many others are also present. I will not be able to put them to the representative of the Federal Food Agency, so I shall put them to the two ministers responsible for the food agency. Maybe they can shed some light. As a result of the previous committee meeting, a number of questions were raised in the following days about information that we did not receive at the time from the top man of the BFSA, but which we should have had. After last week's committee meeting, we read that the European Commission has said on several occasions that the controls of the food agency are not good. Why didn't the top guy at the federal food agency ever refer to that? I'll come to the role of Justice. I have every respect for the fact that we now have to respect the secret of the investigation and that we have not been able to get the document that De Tijd apparently has. I will accept that. I'm missing a minister here today. Today we read in the press that there is a jousting going on between the BFSA and Justice. I therefore believe that the Minister of Justice could be called in last minute. I don't understand why he's not here today. When we talk about justice, we are not only talking about the current jousting, but also about the questions that I asked Minister None two days after the last committee meeting about the fact that the BFSA was apparently unable to deal with the Kosovo case for 18 months. At that time, the Minister of Justice said: "At no time has the Agency considered it useful, it seems, to carry out a thorough inspection of the installations in Bastenaken on the basis of its own administrative powers. Although from the outset the Agency was aware of the initiation of a judicial investigation, it has never again manifested itself at the investigating magistrate to assert that an intervention was urgent." So it became clear after Monday's committee meeting that in the first Kosovo crisis, the BFSA could suspend the company, close it and ask for additional controls. I would have liked to ask today why that didn't happen. I can't ask that right now. I can't ask why the top man of the BFSA lied both in The Seventh Day and here in the committee. He said there was nothing he could do during the first Kosovo crisis. He could do all kinds of business. I remain, along with many others, hungry for the answer to that. Nor can I understand why, at the last meeting, the BFSA leader or the Minister did not report that, in addition to the first Kosovo scandal, there was also a scandal in which Veviba simply sold meat as organic meat. I would also have liked to ask today why we have not received any information on this matter. On weekends, thanks to newspapers, radio and TV, we learned that there is a new scandal at the company in Lommel. People want to take that off as a human error. One can, of course, dismiss everything as a human error. They're all human mistakes. The question is, of course, what are we going to do? Minister, what are you going to do with the fact that the BFSA can hide behind human errors in order not to have to carry out the necessary additional checks? We do not understand that at all. We urgently call for good communication, for the benefit of farmers who mean well and of consumers who no longer know what meat they are allowed to eat and who do not. We do not understand that the press has been releasing a mass of new information throughout the weekend, and that we have not heard any of the four ministers - the Minister for Consumers, Agriculture, Health or Justice - to reassure the people throughout the weekend. I walk around a lot and you also walk around a lot: I've got a lot of questions from people who are currently afraid to eat meat. That is why we are calling for urgent communication. We have made a proposal, which is also one of my questions, to appoint an independent crisis manager urgently, who can tell the people that there is no problem at all at the moment and that we can eat the meat that is on the shelves without any problem. We lack solidity. The credibility expires by the hour. On the train here we see reports about complaints from the Justice Department at the BFSA. We see complaints from the BFSA to the Justice Department. We read on the website of the Chamber that there would be a representation of the food agency here, but there is no such representation. I'll go to my questions. Muriel Gerkens , President : No! At the moment, we are discussing expectations, organization of work, etc. We'll get to the more specific questions later. If you will, we will conclude the questions on the report, relations and follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u20	Minister, like many of my colleagues, I respect the separation of powers and the secrecy of the investigation. I am not going to get into the game of knowing when the probable and presumed arrival of the report we are all looking forward to, but the investigations, Minister, must not be synonymous with inertia. On the contrary, we can't palabrate over and over again. We no longer have time to wait because every day we hear new revelations, new scandals, new positions. I will take three examples. A so-called normal meat was sold as organic meat. This weekend, we learn that a Flemish slaughterhouse has sent outdated meat to Kosovo and again this weekend, the N-VA takes a stand for the regionalisation of inspection services. There must be a strong gesture to restore confidence. It is the word: trust first of all in the breeders, who are the first to pay for the crisis; consumer confidence – as has been said, Madam Minister of Health – which is perhaps more concerned than the Minister of Consumer Protection, who shines with his absence. Then restore confidence abroad, Minister. We're going to China to brag about our meat. It is an important sector that depends on export. As has been said, the feeling of inertia is no longer accepted by, nor acceptable to the population. This feeling of inertia has been noticeable since the Fipronil crisis last August. Minister, I'm not going to sue you. That's the opposite! I say it and repeat it; trust is the word. But it is time to divest yourself of the responsibility of the AFSCA and to appoint a special food commissioner, who can quickly take the necessary steps to restore that confidence to farmers, consumers and abroad. Madam President, Mr President, depending on the continuation of the work, I will obviously have a number of questions to ask. Muriel Gerkens, Chair: I give the floor to Mrs Dedry for the last speech in this context, in which the elements are kept in relation to each other with a view to organizing the continuation of our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u21	Madam President, Minister, there is, of course, a huge difference between giving and not giving. I think there should be a way in between. You received the report on Thursday evening, so you had it in your possession Friday, Saturday and Sunday. In a political context, that is an eternity. Although it is a matter of a lot of thick cafes, you still have employees or you could have provided us with the most important information that could have been given. There is nevertheless a possibility to select information that absolutely does not harm the secret of the investigation and absolutely does not cause the defense of Veviba to spin yarn. You do not tell me that the report does not contain any information that we can get here today, especially since De Tijd has also looked at the report. It was the least you could have done, after your very harsh statements last week. You've wet your chest; you've knocked on the nail very hard, and you've made huge promises. You have created a lot of expectations among the population. You have been very bold in your words. Now, however, there is no action whatsoever. Nothing's gonna happen. So it looks like you're pulling your tail all the way in. I also advocated general coordination and cooperation between justice, consumers, health and agriculture in the topical and urgent debate that I put to you in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u22	The terms you use are completely inadequate. I ask for a minimum correction!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u23	Instead of interrupting MEPs, you should deliver on your promises from last week. You should start with a minimum of transparency before interrupting a Member of Parliament. Mr Dedry merely recalls what you promised to this Parliament last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u24	Transparency is guaranteed. A minimum correction! We can have a debate with a minimum of correction, cordiality and politeness.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u25	You should be more firm with regard to the Agency!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u26	I don't think you should accuse me of rudeness or untruths, I'm always very calm and very respectful of everyone. You can't blame me for this at all. I'm rounding up. I said that I advocated a great deal of coordination in plenary to ensure that you do not only represent this with health, but that justice and consumers are also involved. It is the least we can do when we see how things are going. If you had been in close contact with your colleague from the Justice Department about this report, he could have advised you and we could have received at least a little information today which, once again, is between giving and giving nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last week we had a very good discussion about Veviba. Everyone agreed that the Minister would ask the BFSA for a report with a very clear timeline, so that Parliament would know very well when what happened, and could check whether everyone has taken responsibility or not. The Minister's information clearly shows that the BFSA has completed that report as agreed, but that the court has requested it. None of us wants the judicial investigation to be violated and mistakes to be made, which may prevent fraudsters from being caught. No risk should be taken, but as a Parliament we have our right to control and we have the right to information. CD&V also wants absolute transparency. Mrs Lambrecht, we too have a lot of questions, but I will not ask them now. I'll wait until we get the report. We want very clear answers to all our questions, but we do want to conduct the debate on the basis of facts and reports and not on the basis of speculation and information from the newspaper. If I have understood your answer correctly, Minister, you have promised us that the report will be forwarded to us as soon as it is made available. I would urge that once we have that information, a committee meeting be convened again so that we can all ask our questions so that we can get very clear answers. We want to conduct the debate on the basis of facts and no longer on the basis of speculation and information from the newspaper. Ladies and gentlemen, we must avoid putting everything together here. We have also followed the press, we have also heard this weekend that there may be a new incident at another slaughterhouse. However, let us not lump it all together, they are two different dossiers. According to the information we now have through the press, the second is a human error and not economic fraud. It is therefore completely separate from the requested report of the BFSA. Both dossiers are different and therefore need to be dealt with differently, not at the same time. If there is information on the Vanlommel slaughter case, if ministers can already provide information or clarification, it would be desirable to do so already. But for the Veviba file, we must wait for the report, as it is released.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u28	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament must indeed prevent guilty people from going free. Parliament remains a public body, the suspects read along. The question that came from the Justice Department last week to fully hand over the file to the Justice Department, in order to see what the objectionable elements are for the judicial investigation and to get them out of it, cannot be countered by Parliament. I do, of course, agree with the question put by my colleagues, including Mr De Roover, who asked me to do so in the short term. Indeed, Parliament has its rights and, of course, we also want to explore this dossier from a to z. This can only be done if we do so on the basis of facts, facts that have been drawn up in a very detailed report. We must be able to have time to get this report, read it and then ask all the questions that are necessary to learn from this crisis. I think that is a first important element. A second important element is that we must not throw everything together, as my colleague Mr Dierick said just now. We need to look at the elements that have come to light again. Mrs De Block did so just now by stressing that public health was not in danger. I think this is the most important thing in this crisis. I am pleased that she has said this proactively. In addition to public health, there is, of course, the fact that there is food security and consumer confidence in the food, in the meat that comes on our plate. Colleagues, we must therefore work on this trust. Belgium is very export oriented in this sector. Abroad is asking a lot of questions. Rapid clarity in this dossier is essential, as well as a clear new way of working for the future, allowing us to offer guarantees regarding the food that is not only on our plate but also on the board abroad. I hope, therefore, that we will be able to calm down with this. We should not pretend that there is no transparency. Timing, however, is essential. I therefore ask you, Minister, to insist and to ensure that we have the report at our disposal in the very short term and can then proceed to further questions. Jean-Marc Delizée, President: Madam President, before giving the floor to Parliament, and to sum up, I confirm my great disappointment when I heard on Friday afternoon that we would not have this report, because it does not allow us to be in a position to conduct the debate as we planned. However, I am concerned that at least one newspaper claims to have read it, at least in part. If the press has disposed of it, for all or part, while the parliament does not have it, it is inquisitive! I note the intention to send it to Parliament as soon as possible, again this week. I urged the President to follow the matter carefully so that, if necessary, the Attorney-General could reinvigorate us to have this "redacted" report again this week. If we want to meet again on Friday, it is still possible for a ten-page report. To be seen again, the status of the annexes. If we receive it in the next few days, we could still schedule a meeting for this Friday. With respect to the AFSCA, we have changed the agenda in light of the events of last Friday. It is well planned, in the presence of representatives of the AFSCA. I learned when I came here today that AFSCA would not be present. It is not the work of the two presidents of the committee or of the parliament. Minister, perhaps we could have had an exchange on some issues even without the report. I also regret the absence of AFSCA. Today, we planned a debate on the report with the two ministers here. We will see what is to be expected with the Minister of Justice. Of course, in the Committee on Justice, questions have been asked and may still be raised in connection with this matter. As for Minister Peeters, it is on our committee's agenda this Wednesday and questions within the framework of his powers can be asked. He is prepared to answer this question this Wednesday afternoon. We have now taken a first turn on the order of business. Some wanted to touch on the substance. We have therefore planned a wider exchange of views on issues that would not be directly related to the report. We'll see about that later. These are some things I wanted to add before I gave the floor to the government. Minister, may I ask you to respond to the various colleagues?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u29	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr. De Roover, Mrs Dierick, Mr Thiéry and Mrs Lijnen. Respecting democracy also means respecting the separation of powers. It's fundamental. Since the prosecutor's request was made in this way, it prevented us from transmitting the report to you as quickly as we wished, which I regret. But in a state governed by the rule of law, we must submit ourselves, as an executive, to such a request. It's the separation of powers. It is also a question of political responsibility and of not taking the risk of seeing information that is subject to the secrecy of the investigation communicated in such a way as to feed the fraudsters and offer them a victory in the judicial field by exposing procedural defects. As soon as I have the green light from the prosecutor's office, I will immediately forward the entire case to Parliament. If the AFSCA is not present today, it is because I do not wish it to be questioned about a report that the prosecution has indicated that it is not necessary to communicate. It's obvious. Once I have the green light from the public prosecutor's office, the AFSCA can be attached to our proceedings, if the Chamber so wishes. I want to raise a doubt. The fact that the report is not transmitted does not prevent us from working. I would remind those who would have paid little attention this Friday to the decision of the Government and the Council of Ministers, which calls for two audits. This is, on the one hand, an audit of the procedures and control policy, as well as the elements of communication and relationship between AFSCA and Justice in the context of these controls. This will also be a second audit of the functioning and structure of the AFSCA. The decision was made on Friday and we are already at work to start these audits. These will be entrusted to the Federal Audit Service. As Minister for the Independents, I am also taking measures for the sector, some of which is already experiencing the impact of this crisis. I have taken measures such as the deferral of contributions, exemptions, and the recognition of the sector as a sector in crisis. These will help companies and self-employed in this sector to cope with a difficult situation. We continue our contacts with the entire meat industry. We look forward to proposals from them for the support they wish to receive. We're at work. It is not this delay in transmitting the report to Parliament that reduces the mobilization of the government and my department. Let's be clear! For the rest, I deeply regret that you cannot have access to the rooms today. We will ensure that we are fully available to Parliament when it wishes to do so, depending on its knowledge of all the rooms. I have found that some questions relate to the report. I am not going to sort out the various questions of parliamentarians now because there are aspects that relate to the report. Others don't. Wisdom requires waiting to have all the reports so that I can answer and express myself on the subject. I will not take political responsibility for communicating to Parliament elements which could, in relation to this case and to the secrecy of the investigation, pose a problem in the judicial follow-up. I will not be responsible for a procedural flaw whereby the lawyers of the fraudsters could harm the entire legal process against them. When I hear some, I wonder if we all have the same political responsibility at that level, Mr Nollet. That's the point, though! That's the point, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u30	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u31	I won't take that risk! It is easy to ask absolutely all the rooms. I trust our rule of law, the separation of powers, and I ask all parliamentarians, including you, not to jeopardize a procedure that could be jeopardized if the prosecutor's office was not given the necessary time to clear parts of all the weapons that could be seized by fraudsters in the judicial process. Madam President, if you don't mind, I come to the other element, the last one. I'm calling on everyone to keep up. I hear Mr Senesael echo the importance of exporting, like the meat industry abroad. In this context, it is understood that Veviba fraud concerns Veviba! I would like to draw attention to the need to defend the sector. When I hear Ecolo asking for an audit of the entire agri-food sector, I'm worried. It is to cast reproach, to combine, on the whole of the agri-food industry. It's an irresponsible amalgam on your part! Irresponsible! We are facing a case that is a very important fraud of Veviba. Undoubtedly in order to use this issue politically, you cast the shadow on the entire agri-food sector by asking for a general audit! It is politically irresponsible and it is above all to question the probity, honesty and quality of the work of this sector! Jean-Marc Delizée, president: Mr.Minister, thank you. I will give the floor to colleagues who wish to speak in a second round.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u32	Minister, what you are saying is unacceptable. You are relying on the refusal to transmit the report to us in order to escape the political debate. Even if it bothers the parties of the majority and particularly the MR, item 1 of our agenda concerns the order of business. Point 2 relates to an exchange of views in the context of which oral questions are provided. As I know, Mr. Ducrame, the Prosecutor's Office never asked you not to answer the oral questions and never asked you not to participate in the exchange of views. The Chair has just invited us to table the oral questions to Minister Peeters, which he is expected to answer on Wednesday. He's not going to run away from his responsibilities as well! You are not going to silence us for a week or even ten days, because we do not have the report. Mr Ducrame, the restriction of budgets is a problem. Mr Ducrame, the communication from the AFSCA is a problem. Mr. Ducrame, again this weekend, the general manager of the AFSCA allowed himself to give an interview to the Standaard when he did not come here because you decided. You're running away from the substantive debate! The same applies to the sector as a whole. There is, of course, a need to support the actors, especially those who have been deceived by a central player in the system. It is for this reason that the issue needs to be examined in depth, not superficially. It would be far too easy to limit yourself to taking one or the other action on the AFSCA, as you think you can do – in any case, you prepare the ground for it to be so – and not to go to the heart of the mechanism, the heart of the device. Today, we understand that the absence of AFSCA and your refusal to answer the questions are premonitory of what you are preparing for.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u33	Of your questions, three relate to the report. There is still a need for consistency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u34	Mr Ducrame, when I tabled my question on Friday, the prosecutor's office did not intervene, which is the case today. That is why our agenda provides for an exchange of views. In addition, in my remarks, there is no item related to the prosecution and the case file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u35	Mr. Ducrame, I wanted to take over...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u36	There is a question about the report in your own question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u37	If you don't want to understand... Jean-Marc Delizée, president: Mr Nollet has the floor!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u38	You're asking me to go against...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u39	Mr Ducrame, add as much as you want! Stop me as much as you want! I'll go to the end of the line of reasoning. I have questions that were tabled on Friday. Some of these issues related to the report. Of course, in the light of what is said, we withdraw this part. But as the president said, as the president said, there are other elements in the questions that have been tabled, on which you yourself do not hesitate to communicate, again this weekend. I'll take them back and I'll quote them, Mr. Ducrame. When the AFSCA, in September 2016, considers, because justice has taken over the case, that it no longer has work to do, it is wrong. You must react to this, and without waiting for the report. In fact, the best evidence is that Minister Geens himself did it. Who else but the Minister of Justice needs to know if he can talk about it or not? He answered the questions. You're running away from your responsibilities. And you're more concerned about these things. That's the first point. The second point. When, in this weekend's interview, the Director General of AFSCA allows himself to call for better cooperation between justice and AFSCA, it is in clear contradiction with what he said here in August. I'm going back to what he said, and I've got him with me. When, in August, the fipronil crisis was being managed, what exactly did the Director General of AFSCA say at the time? That "cooperation with justice is exceptionally good". It's at p. 10. And today, he's coming to justify his mistakes... but he's not in parliament, he's doing it in the press. He's organizing his own leaks, unless it's your firm, but I don't believe it. Today, he justifies his own mistakes by the fact that justice would not be able to respond to his demands. You have to answer already, Mr. Ducrame. You can't run away and wait for the report. You know very well that he puts these items in the press to get you. And you would justify your silence today by the fact that there are three sub-questions that would be linked to a report, whereas those that I am referring to are in no way related to what is in the report. You have to answer that already. I come to the following aspect, Mr.Ducarme, and I do not understand that it does not affect you any more. How can you accept that the AFSCA never warned you, you, as the supervisory authority? You were warned last February that a company managing 30% of the market behaved in a mafia manner, was economically fraudulent and took health risks. These practices were identified in September 2016. While you were not informed until February, you feel that everything is well and that there is no need to intervene. This is totally contradictory to the statement made by the AFSCA when it came here in August, at the time of the Fipronil crisis. Indeed, she told us that, as soon as the problem was of importance, she warned the minister. Mr. Ducrame, don't you mind a little? I am not talking about the report; it has nothing to do with the work of the prosecutor. Would that not justify a position on your part and a presence of the AFSCA to answer this question? The president will recall that I had interviewed her and that she had told me that she would respond today. Mr Ducrame, I would like to get an answer about the degree of confidence you can still give to AFSCA, when it does not inform you that a company occupying 30 % of the market has been denounced in Kosovo for serious economic fraud. On this point, we do not need the floor, but only an answer from you. Once again, I feel the situation well: you will run away from your responsibilities and refuse this debate in Parliament. You'll answer somewhere else, as you've done all weekend. Madam President, Mr President, why can't we ask for the presence of the AFSCA today? We formally request, in connection with the next item on our agenda - namely the exchange of views - that the AFSCA be present to answer the questions that I am asking at the moment. I hope that, as a result of this request, we will be able to ask others, of course, by removing the three questions that are only part of the questions that I wish to address with Mr Ducrame. It is not because it interrupts, it is not because it shouts that we will not be right about the organization of our work in relation to extremely important issues and must not wait for this report. Jean-Marc Delizée, president: Thank you, Mr. Nollet. I would like to make a point. When some colleagues put questions, it was in the perspective of having the report for this weekend. We know what's going on. We don't have the report. We have therefore changed the agenda by proposing to take stock of the organisation of our work. Nevertheless, an exchange of views has been planned and we have just moved to agenda item 2, saying that there are substantive issues other than those relating to the report. Several raised issues that were not specifically relevant to the report. On these questions, we wanted to keep the committee meeting so that colleagues could ask their questions and the government could answer them. Of course, it is the responsibility of each Member to focus his or her questions in the absence of the report. The government will respond to what it considers to be a response. Minister, you are telling us that the government has continued to work, despite the absence of the report. I want to tell you that Parliament continues to work also by asking its questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u40	Minister, four elements, if I may. First, a simple question that may not have been well clarified since the start. Minister, who initiated contact with the Attorney General? Is it the Attorney General himself? Is this your firm? Is that a third party? I believe that this answer is very important. Secondly, Mr Minister, as you have said, you are concerned about good cooperation with the justice system, but you must agree with us that you have dropped a whole series of information in the press this weekend. Have you made contact with the justice system in order to realize the elements that have been delivered to the press? Thirdly, you are telling us that the AFSCA must, for the time being, remain outside the debate since justice has taken over the case. Minister, you say you have all the experience and respect of the parliamentarian. But in my opinion, by excluding AFSCA from the debate, you are not up to Parliament and you are therefore not the one that allows Parliament to carry out its democratic control. We can indeed regret that. Minister, we asked you some questions last Monday and they were unanswered. They do not concern the report that is currently in the hands of the prosecutor. This is your own self-control report, Minister. What have you done since the fipronil crisis? Can you, for example, take stock of the achievements following the audit of the Court of Auditors on self-monitoring? I will not repeat what I said last week or everything my excellent colleague Delizée said to Parliament on Thursday, but during the fipronil crisis, Minister, you announced the establishment of a memorandum of understanding specifying the modalities for exchange and communication between your cabinet and the AFSCA. That is what we are talking about today in everything we are debating! What's the status of this protocol, Minister? Has it been implemented? If so, what is the follow-up? What are the concrete elements that you can bring to us confirming your intentions, repeated in loud and clear here, but for which we still have no concrete elements? I could go back to a number of other issues, but I wish and prefer, for the time being, to remain in the essential debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u41	Mr President, excuse me, but there is something that I do not understand well in relation to the order of business. Some colleagues ask the minister questions, but ultimately we have not yet defined the order of business. That's very surprising. It seems that we were already in the debate without a decision on what we were going to do. I'd like you to put it in order, Mr. President. Jean-Marc Delizée, president: We are in the exchange of views. [[brouhaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u42	Mr President, we are not in the exchange of views! Jean-Marc Delizée,Chair: No, no! The agenda was amended. We have discussed the order of business. Maybe some people don't want to talk, which would be a shame. We noted the absence of both the report and the AFSCA. Everyone spoke on these subjects. While some colleagues have other questions not related to the report, since the government is present and the committees are meeting, they are given the opportunity to ask questions about the health crisis or the means or the memorandum of understanding, etc. That's where we are right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u43	Mr President, to my knowledge, you did not say that you had closed item 1 of the order of business. I had asked a question about that too. Knowing what the ministers have now reported to us and the extremely important risks associated with the questions directly related to the report, I would like to know who will define the questions that can be answered and the others? Something's wrong. I had asked for the suspension of work, if any, since we do not have the report. Today, it was planned that we would discuss the Veviba problem on the basis of the report. We don't have it. Everyone's positions are clear. Before moving forward in our discussions, I propose that everyone give their views on the future of the work. Jean-Marc Delizée, Chair: We were taking a look at the reactions after the government's responses. We are now in the exchange of views, since some members are asking more general questions that are not relevant to the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u44	Mr. President, this is your interpretation. You have not closed this item on the agenda and you have entered the debate directly. That's not right! That is not how we must function. Jean-Marc Delizée, president: We are presidents of these committees. The agenda includes an exchange of views on the health crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u45	Mr President, to the best of my knowledge, it is the committee that decides the order of business. Jean-Marc Delizée, president: We must know that the government does not want the debate! Can't we ask the government any questions, even if we don't have the report? There are questions that come out of the report. I apologize, but I have just heard questions that do not concern him. It is the responsibility of Members not to ask questions about the report. The government will respond to what it considers to be a response. I suggest we stay on the list.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u46	Mr President, we are still at point 1. Mr. Thiéry is right. The questions come later. I don't understand why the president is attacking you. Mr Thiéry, I think you are right; we are still in the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u47	Thank you. We are still on the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u48	The debate on the agenda on the order of business has not yet been concluded. The exchange of views will then take place. Ms. Dedry is already on the list to ask substantive questions. I and other colleagues still have questions about the agenda because we absolutely do not agree with what the Minister has said for the time being. I suggest that we follow a logical order. Item 1 on the agenda always comes before item 2. It makes sense to finish point 1 before we start with point 2. I would like to talk about the rules of procedure. I would like to give the floor to those Members who are asking for the floor, but I would like to talk about the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u49	Mr President, we are fully in the story. We are still in the process of regulating the work, nothing else. Jean-Marc Delizée, President: If it is felt that the item on the order of business has not been completed, I personally note that some colleagues have asked substantive questions which no longer really fall within the scope of the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u50	Mr President, that is exactly what I am telling you. Re-specify the framework, the way we need to work. We're still at point 1. Jean-Marc Delizée, president: The only technical constraint we have is that we have to leave this room at 1:00 p.m. If some still wish to intervene in response to the order of business or to what the minister has said, then they should do so now. An order will be re-established for issues that do not concern the report but are rather an exchange of views on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u51	Mr President, I do not know what I see happening here. Allow me first to give a good tip for the future: cancel such meetings. There's no point in this. We do not know whether or not to ask questions. I would have liked to have received an e-mail saying that the sitting could not take place because we cannot ask for anything. During the discussion of the work, no questions should be asked and no discussion of the work should be held during the discussion of questions. So I'm not entirely with you anymore, and that's why I'm trying to find out what I can ask. However, I would like to make this clear. I still have a number of questions that I personally estimate will certainly not interfere with the separation of powers. I will not be thrown out of committee because the Chamber is no longer available after 13:00. For me, we can't discuss all kinds of things, but we have to end the meeting at 13:00 and get out. What are we doing? This committee meeting must reassure the public and also the meat sector. It is already after 11 a.m. 00, but apparently the arrangements for the work are still being discussed. I would like to wait with my questions, but I would like to ask my questions today, in particular my questions which have nothing to do with the separation of powers. On Wednesday, a meeting of the Justice Commission is scheduled with Minister Geens at 2:30 p.m. I propose that we ask questions about the justice aspect in that committee if they are not to be asked today. So I would now like to return to the floor, on the understanding that I would like to ask my questions today. Jean-Marc Delizée, Chairman: Thank you, Mrs Lambrecht. If some still wish to speak on the order of business, they will have the floor. But I would point out that the most recent interventions were more substantive than organizational.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u52	That's your interpretation! Jean-Marc Delizée, president: In any event, we will conclude this point. Secondly, I will give the floor to colleagues who wish to put questions on the substance. There are also the attached questions. But we thought that the exchange of views would incorporate the content of the latter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u53	Mr President, you have not defined the framework. If we are in the order of business, I would clearly ask, on the basis of what has been said by colleagues, both the majority and the opposition, and by the ministers, if we continue our meeting, given that we do not have this report and that we are going to have to do this twice, perhaps three times. Mr President, can you put the question to the colleagues here if we go further in the proceedings? Jean-Marc Delizée, president: Mr Thiéry, I heard you. I would point out that, following the government's response, several colleagues wanted to speak. I will therefore ask all colleagues who wish to speak on the order of business. Then we'll make the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u54	Mr President, in view of the absence of the AFSCA, the order of business is in disarray. I wanted to reply to Minister Ducrame's remarks and ask further questions about the order of business. Indeed, between the time the agenda was initially set, which was the transmission of the report, and today a number of events have occurred. Let us remember that another case broke out this weekend. I would like this to be discussed in the order of business. A new fraud was discovered at Vanlommel, a laboratory in Flanders. I would also like information on this. I therefore expected the AFSCA to be present on this new file. On the one hand, it is said that there was fraud and, on the other, it is said that there was a human error. I would have wanted to know what was the shade between these two elements, especially since in fine, the result is the same. I would therefore have liked to have an interpretation of the AFSCA in relation to these problems in the context of the order of business. Minister, without amalgamating, since you accuse parliamentarians of doing so on this issue, there is obviously a cross-cutting concern with the audit being requested on the entire meat sector. On the other hand, I would have liked to have been more specific about how the relationship between Justice and the AFSCA and the AFSCA and the appropriate minister is being considered. These are important elements. Either the appropriate minister has been warned, or he has not been warned. But in both cases, I have a problem. I wish that in your presence, Minister, and in the presence of the AFSCA, this difficulty could be cleared up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u55	Mr President, Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that this is correct. I believe that what is happening here today is of no benefit to anyone: not the consumer, not the producer, not the farmer and not the staff of the companies concerned. I suggest that we wait in all serenity for the report and then discuss what is to be discussed, with knowledge of the facts, at a next committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u56	I fully agree with Mr Gantois when she says that this is not a proper way of working. This is not, moreover, the agreed method of working. The only reason why the debate on the regulation of the work continues for so long is because the Minister is totally in breach of his commitment to this matter. You blame the Green Group for profiling. When it comes to public health, we are indeed eagerly profiling, because we believe that this should be taken seriously. Instead of attacking the Green Group, perhaps you should look at your coalition partner, because that is the only political group that has so far profiled itself in this dossier. After all, the N-VA says that, in the light of this scandal, splitting up is the solution. If you want to attack a group, I would advise you to do so with the N-VA, but certainly not with Ecolo-Green. Mr President, I shall return to the order of business. We insist that the Minister honours his commitment. He had promised to participate in operation transparency, but he is himself making an operation secrecy of it. On Monday, the Minister promised that there would be a report. The Food Agency itself announced that it would discuss this with Parliament. On Thursday, the Minister renewed his commitment. It was announced that the report would be delivered on Friday. The Minister and the Agency are discussing the situation in detail in the media this weekend. Today we establish the alliance between Ducarme and the food agency that are trying to sabotage our work. Our group does not agree with that. There are plenty of questions, Minister, which can be answered perfectly today. If the Agency announces that it couldn't do anything as long as the Justice Department was busy, that's not true. You will not violate the separation of powers if you insist on that. The BFSA does not violate the separation of powers if it responds. There are two options. There is the MR option, promoted by colleague Thiéry and produced by the Ducarme alliance and the food agency. It calls for a halt to our work today. That is Mr Thiéry's question. I absolutely disagree with that. Our group is asking for two things. First and foremost, the exchange of views must be possible, colleagues must be able to ask their questions and the Minister must answer them. So I do not agree with Mr Ducarme's question in order to be able to leave. Ducarme needs to answer the substantive questions that exist. First question. Second question. It may be in another room, but I do not care about the Chamber. This afternoon, at one or two o'clock, the Agency requested that the session be continued in the presence of the Food Agency. So two questions. We ask for a different option than the MR option. Our option is: substantive questions, and there are a lot of them, can be asked and answered by the Minister, after which we will hear the food agency. We are not satisfied with less. This is the most efficient way of presenting these questions and allowing the committee to continue its work. Those are actually the work we agreed on today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u57	Very briefly in the context of the work. I'm joining the Green-Ecolo colleagues. It's amazing that we're meeting for almost two hours about what we're allowed to talk about today. I really don't understand why you guys didn't postpone the meeting by two or three days. The communication to the outside world through the vaudeville that is now in progress is hugely bad for the sector. Minister, you create a hint of secrecy because you do not want to answer questions. We were not informed that we were not allowed to ask any questions. The worst part is that I see someone sitting next to you in the chair other than a representative of the food agency. Are you protecting the food agency in such a way that you don't bring anyone? I don't understand what's happening. Of the four ministers three came first, now there are two, next week there may be another one, but where is the food agency? I would like the Agency to be taken up immediately: it should help the Minister to answer our questions. Some of my questions are entirely outside the scope of the judicial investigation, but I believe that the food agency can answer them more and better than the Minister. We've got to get rid of this stealth of mystery. Muriel Gerkens , President Mr. Chairman, my speech will take place in two stages. My first speech relates to the remark you made, Mr. Ducrame, during the debate on the order of business. On this occasion, you made a criticism about the position of Ecolo that I actually defended this weekend, asking for an audit of the entire industry. You blame me for throwing reproach at a whole sector. I would like to tell you that if we want to protect a sector, if we want to protect farmers and farmers who produce quality food, it is important to protect them from what happens between the time they deliver their animals and when meat is sold inside or outside the country. An audit of the sector involves an audit of why there are monopolies (30 per cent) of certain players who play on prices, who do not comply with labour legislation while the Social Inspectorate denounces elements that are problematic. There are several actors in the industry. It is important to protect good practices and identify good practices. In my view, therefore, your comment did not have its place in the debate on the order of business, nor could I fail to reply. We will allow you to comment on the various exchanges that have taken place (AFSCA or not), on answers to questions that do not relate to the report, some of which were actually asked last week. When you have spoken, we will ask the members of the commission whether we are continuing our work with the questions that the minister is always free to answer or not. It is not the questions that are dangerous, but the possible answer to them. In any event, since several requests have been made, we will ask the committee whether we are continuing or whether we are stopping our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u58	Madam President, I would like your committee to determine what it wishes to do with regard to the order of business. We have been here for some time now and this has not yet been determined. I know, of course, that parliamentary debates can sometimes take some time. Why were we meeting today? To analyze together the report I asked for from AFSCA. What happened? As I have already answered this question, I will not repeat, Mr Senesael, what I said at the beginning of our committee. The Minister of Justice told me that the prosecutor wanted to check all the exhibits, the introduction as well as the annexes, before the information was transmitted to Parliament. Since we could not discuss the report that was on the agenda, I told AFSCA that it was not necessary for it to be here today. I will not go back to the separation of powers or to the elements of political responsibility not to take any risk of providing information that would be subject to the secrecy of the investigation. Forgive me, but additional questions have been joined! We have reviewed these issues. All of them are fairly broad about the report, which we do not have. In short, we are meeting today to discuss a report, which I will forward to you as soon as possible as I have the green light from the public prosecutor's office. It is up to you, at committee level, given the absence of this report that formed the basis of today's meeting, whether we are continuing the debate or waiting for the report to be discussed on the subject of the meeting. It is now up to you, at committee level, to decide! Forgive me, but the turn that was made about the order of business was still a little surprising. It seems to me that there were still a lot of issues that were not related to the order of business. Madam President, Mr President, before proceeding further, I would ask you to ask the committee what it intends to do and what it wants to discuss. Jean-Marc Delizée,Chair: Thank you, Minister. However, I would like to repeat for the third time that we learned on Friday that the report would not be here. We have amended the agenda accordingly by indicating "exchange of views". There's a health crisis. We wanted to have an exchange of views with the government and representatives of the AFSCA on it, out of relation, as we knew it would not be in our possession. I would point out that colleagues have questions that do not concern the report. Some put them in part, others left them in abeyance. We thought that the government would be available to answer substantive questions about this health crisis without specifically referring to the content of the report, which we do not have. I hear Mr. Thiéry say we have to suspend the work. Are there any questions that bother you? Would there be issues that some would not want to talk about? It would be a shame for our institution to be told that we can't ask any other irrelevant questions. I heard Mr. Thiéry's point of view, I heard Mrs. Gantois. If the majority asks for a vote, Mrs Gerkens and I will not be able to refuse it. But it is a bit regrettable, in relation to the crisis we are experiencing, that the majority wants this to be postponed until later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u59	Mr President, we intended to work in a collegial manner. In what you just said, you go beyond your role as president! You're taking a stand and that's not what we asked for. I did not say that we should stop the debates, I asked the two presidents to ask the committee the question in order to hear its opinion. That's exactly what I said. With regard to your argument, I would like to point out word for word and very slowly that in the end, even if you have changed the agenda as you have done, it is stated: "The frauds found in the slaughterhouse and the processing units in Veviba". Veviba! We are waiting for a report that we do not have and we know why we do not have it. Madam President, Mr President, on the basis of these elements, which I believe are objective, I would ask you again to ask the committee whether we should go further in the proceedings today or whether we are waiting for the report to have an objective, constructive and transparent discussion. We must have all the elements in order to be able to do our parliamentary work in the best possible way. Jean-Marc Delizée, president: Mr Thiéry, I understood the meaning of your speech from the first time! You tell us that since there is no report, there is no need for a debate today. I sum it up like that. On the agenda, Mrs Gerkens and I had indicated "exchange of views". If other colleagues do not wish to take the floor, we will ask whether there are any more of us and, if so, whether the agenda is being changed and whether this exchange of views is being deleted on issues that no longer concern the report but the health crisis in the broad sense and relations with AFSCA among others, some of which have already been raised.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u60	I hear Mr Thiéry does not insist on suspending our work. It was just an informative question, not a clear and clear request from the MR. I would prefer that we keep our agenda, that we continue the work and that parliamentarians ask their questions. Jean-Marc Delizée, president: If there is consensus, I have no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u61	It would be the reverse world if we had to ask for a vote to respect the agenda. There is an exchange of views on the agenda, which means that Members can ask their questions. The Minister will then be free to answer certain questions or not. Our first question is to respect the agenda, and our second question is to involve the Agency in the exchange of views. Mr Thiéry indicated that he would not wish to suspend work, which is a good idea. It's a good thing he's taking back gas on that plane. So let us finally begin the substantive debate. Mrs Dedry and Mr Nollet are eager to ask their substantive questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u62	Mr President, I would like to put a question to the Ministers. It seems to me that in the circumstances no one can know whether a question relating to the Veviba case is intervening or not in the investigation of the court, since we do not know the content of the document. That does not go away, and I repeat what I said earlier: the matter is of such importance that we should be able to have an extensive parliamentary debate on it. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. In all honesty, I do not think that, by being able to deal with the matter thoroughly in the foreseeable future, it will harm them as such; only the profiling drive of some politicians is harmed. Nevertheless, Minister, I have the following question. I said earlier that I wanted to treat the file properly. Let us not forget that the court is involved in this matter and that it is in the interests of the court to postpone the debate for as long as possible. That is an element that we must consider. I think it is decent that we should not be holding the debate at the moment, but we should not be running the risk that the public would keep us on a leash for a long time and be deprived of important information in this way. Mr Minister, my question is as follows. Do you have any idea when the public prosecutor will have carried out his work on dividing the investigation into what can be dealt with here and what can or cannot be provisionally released for the investigation............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Our patience in this respect is not infinite at all; it is too important to do so. I said earlier in my first speech that it seems reasonable to me that we should take note of the information in question this week. In that case, the postponement of a few days does not seem to me to infringe our functioning as a Parliament at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u63	I would like to point out that my questions will certainly not harm the investigation. After all, they deal with general matters concerning the operation of the BFSA, following the previous meeting. I'd like to ask those questions. Can it be decided that someone from the BFSA, if not the top man than anyone else, can be present, because I fear that the minister will have to refer to the BFSA each time and then we will not be any further.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u64	I certainly do not agree with the first part of Mr De Roover's speech, but I do agree with the second part, in particular that we absolutely must avoid Parliament being held hostage by a game between the parquet and the BFSA. I believe that this is a legitimate concern. However, as Mr Lambrecht asked, there are many questions which do not prevent the proceedings of the court. These must be available today, as was on the agenda. So I really want to ask the Minister to stop his protest against minimum transparency and that Members should be able to ask their questions, and this as soon as possible, in the presence of the BFSA. If there is one vote to be taken, it is only to reclaim the BFSA. That is the only vote on the agenda. I would therefore like to suggest this vote, coupled with the continuation of our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u65	Mr President, I thank Mr. From Roover for his question. As I said at the outset, I respect Parliament. You will remember that I sat there for a while. Even if I have to comply with the prosecutor's decision, I mean that his commitment to the Minister of Justice to release the exhibits for Parliament this week is achieved as a goal. The separation of powers is also a balance. That is why I do not want the legislative power to be deprived of its prerogatives. I will repeat in writing to my colleague from Justice that I intend that the commitment in terms of time will be respected. Jean-Marc Delizée, president: Colleagues, having heard each other and the Minister's reply, I think we can still receive the so-called "redacted" report this week, so that we could reconvene our committees at the end of the week. Let me turn to the question of the exchange of views on the agenda. I would like to point out that the questions relating to the report are not relevant today. However, colleagues have addressed other substantive issues, which do not concern the report. I therefore ask you whether there is a consensus that we can move on to agenda item 2, namely the exchange of views. It is the responsibility of each and every one of you to control your interventions taking into account the absence of the report. In addition, the government will respond to its opportunities. May I acknowledge the existence of a consensus on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u66	Mr President, I fully agree that you are asking if we can ask questions. Before going into the questions, would I like to know whether I am really almost alone in asking for a representative of the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain? After all, the questions are about the BFSA. Mr President, I would therefore like to ask you to put the request to colleagues. If necessary, we wait half an hour, until the representative of the BFSA is present. Can a representative of the BFSA be present to answer our questions, including with the ministers? Jean-Marc Delizée, President: I think the preliminary question is whether we are continuing the exchange of views. Depending on this, other questions can be asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u67	Mr President, thank you for asking the right question. I would still like to refer to what Mr. De Roover said. If we start asking questions now, who today is able to say whether or not the question or answer that will be given will be in relation to the report that is to be submitted to us? I sincerely believe that we are taking a huge risk by allowing questions to be asked that can go any way. Very sincerely, if we do this, but I will wait for the opinion of the whole committee, I would not like to be in the place of ministers who could take a risk. It would then be their responsibility in the event that they give evidence that could later be reprimandable and that could ultimately make it possible not to have Verbist who is the fraudster. I hear about the AFSCA, but we have a serious concern about fraud. What we need to do is transparency and punish those who have deceived. That's what we have to do! Would anyone here in the committee take the slightest risk to prevent fraudsters from being punished? I don't think that would be responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u68	Then let him take over!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u69	I simply think, Mr President, that clearly there is no consensus. So you were asking the question of whether there was consensus. I sincerely believe that no, there is no consensus. Jean-Marc Delizée, president: That way, it's clearer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us put aside the emotion. In the hope of giving some reason, I would like to share some elements with you. Firstly, whether we like the separation of powers at the moment or not, we are being forced to wait from the Justice Department. We must respect that, how uncomfortable it may feel in this. We, and even the Minister today, cannot replace justice and say what is or is not an important element in the judicial investigation. I'm talking about the Veviba crisis. I do not seem to have any element to enforce that today. Secondly, there could indeed be a lot of questions about car control systems and how we can learn lessons from this crisis in general about the functioning of the BFSA. However, last week the Council of Ministers decided to issue two audits. Minister, I asked you last week in plenary and I ask you again here. It is important to get a timing for that too. When can we have these two debates in committee? Thirdly, the issue in Olen and the new elements of this weekend seem to me to be the only elements left today. Minister De Block has already clearly underlined the state of health. Perhaps it is interesting that Minister Ducarme can share with us what is important to us in this regard. We had to be informed by the media. That never feels right for a Parliament. I think there are still some questions to be asked about this, but then we will be finished for today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u71	Mr President, Justice has asked not to publish the report, Justice has not asked Parliament to go on holiday. [[noodle]] So there are still a lot of questions that can be asked. I repeat my question. Mr Thiéry does not have the courage to be colourful. I want to use that to respect our agenda. If Members are at peace with the fact that we will not get all the answers on the concrete content of the report, they are already more reluctant than the Agency itself. The Agency, which comments extensively on the whole situation in the press, is less reluctant than the Members of Parliament here today. I repeat my question. Let's respect the agenda. The questions that can be asked and answered can already be addressed today. As far as we are concerned, Mr Lambrecht must do so in the presence of the Agency. Let the temporary absence of the Agency not be an argument for closing things down today, because there are too many questions that can already be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u72	Mr President, I would just like to clarify our intention to ask questions that are not related to the report that is in the hands of justice, despite the reluctance of each other. I would also like to say, of course, that the presence of AFSCA in our debates is more than urgent and necessary so that it can respond to the legitimate questions of parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u73	I would like to address the Speaker of the House. I think he attended all of our work this morning. He was the one who had contact with the prosecutor's office. I think we are witnessing a drift, in any case potential, in the way things are being organised. The executive branch received the report and discussed it. The judiciary has asked to receive the report, to take it up, and, temporarily, not to transfer it to parliament. The media power debate the report, and fortunately that this power exists. Some already echo elements of the report. It is said that this report written by the AFSCA was well done. Surprise! Nevertheless, the press is talking about it. As my colleague Calvo said, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency itself talks about it in her interview with the Standaard this weekend. In short, the executive, the judiciary and the media are talking about it, and the only place we can't talk about it would be parliament. I'm addressing you, Mr. President. There's a problem. In the name of respect for the separation of powers, everyone is talking about it today, except Parliament. Beyond this issue, this problem must be addressed. Indeed, it is too easy to say that the cause is the existence of an investigation. Tomorrow, we will no longer be able to talk to Parliament about any subject that would be investigated. I'm even going further. We could no longer talk about any subject that would be audited until it was completed. That's not right! This prevents parliamentary scrutiny. This prevents Members from expressing their views and asking questions. You called him back earlier, Mr. President. The problem is not the question, but perhaps the answer. But in this case, it is up to the minister to take responsibility, not to reject everything, otherwise it would be based on an investigation or an audit to save time. And I have the unpleasant feeling that this is precisely what is already happening in this case as, outside, the first media landmarks are beginning to come to grips. We know what that means and the minister himself took part in interviews this weekend. He had read the report and had even said that he felt comforted by his reading. Good! Because he had been very critical at the first meeting. We were more of a consensus. Since then, however, he has said that he is strengthened by reading this report when we could not! There is a real problem both of functioning and of balance, on the other hand. I therefore ask the President to be reassuring for the continuation of this work. Imagine that justice says that it can't do anything or give! What will we do then? Wait? Would the legislative power be tied feet and fists? This is not acceptable, particularly in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u74	Mr. Secretary, I have one more question for you. The separation of powers is very important, but it also existed on Friday. When you received the report on Friday, Minister, didn't the separation of powers exist? If you are afraid of our legal system and you want to respect the separation of powers, I expect you to take an initiative with regard to the chairmen of the committee and the President of the Chamber to ask that today's sitting be postponed for a few days. We would not like that, but we would have followed you at that time, because we have given you a great deal of credit so far. What do we see, however? Despite the separation of powers, the top man of the federal food agency is allowed to express his opinion in the press all weekend. Where was the separation of powers then? Mr Minister, I have a question for you: do you still support the top man of the food agency, who has made statements against the separation of powers throughout the weekend, when you do not want us to ask questions today in view of the separation of powers? Understand who can. I certainly don't understand. Jean-Marc Delizée, President: Mrs Dierick has something to say. Mr. Secretary, may I ask you some more patience? Mrs. Dierick, can you hold on a second? [[Assent]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u75	Mr Nollet, it is not because the media are talking about it – I know that the press is there – that we are not going to respect what is requested by the prosecution, either at the level of the government or as far as we are concerned. The press is of course important. What she says is important. The separation of powers is also extremely important and, as I have indicated, I intend to respect it. I talked about the separation of powers and the need to have a balance. I have been able to resume contact with the magistrates who are currently analysing the entire report of the AFSCA. I am informed that this examination could, in principle, end today at around 4 p.m. and be communicated to Parliament at the end of the afternoon. Jean-Marc Delizée, president: Mr.Minister, thank you for this information. I give the floor to Mrs Dierick.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-19-54-commissie-ic846x.u76	The information we have just received is of course very interesting, but I have the feeling that we are going in circles, repeating ourselves and not understanding each other or not wanting to understand each other. Several colleagues have said that they have a lot of questions and that they want very clear answers to them. We are in favour of transparency, but on the basis of facts and a report and no longer on the basis of speculation and information that we get from the newspapers. We want that report. On the basis of that report, we really want to continue and see everything cleared out. There is no point in continuing the discussion now, but we want to hear very clearly the commitment that, once we have the report, we are calling together a committee to continue the debate on Veviba. We, too, absolutely want transparency and clarity. We too want answers to our many questions. Can you commit, Minister, that once we have the report, a committee meeting can be convened to continue the debate? Otherwise, there's no point. Everyone can take the floor a third time, but I would like the Presidents to propose a decision now. Muriel Gerkens , President : So we are faced with two possibilities. The minister tells us that the report can be sent to us at the end of this afternoon after verification by the prosecution and the prosecutor. We have just consulted our agendas quickly. If the two committees agree, we can have a next meeting of the committees on Wednesday morning. The agendas of both committees allow for this. In this case, we will close the proceedings today and meet again Wednesday morning. That is the proposal we want to make to you. It is clear that we will repeat what was agreed, namely that this presentation of the report and the discussions around the report will take place with the ministers concerned and the representative of the AFSCA, who was planned in the event that the report is received. That is the proposal that has been made to you. Can you agree on that? [[Sentiment]] I propose, in this case, to lift the work and make an appointment Wednesday morning. In my opinion, the meeting might be a long one. We will look at all the work.
