ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u1	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, in response to a question put to you by Mrs Winckel on 23 May 2017 about the material used to dress the pedestrian in the city centre of Brussels, you said: "The company is Belgian and, at the delivery of its offer, it has declared that it uses only materials from the European Union and has submitted a list of potential subcontractors, all Belgians." My question is dated 16 February, so it's been a while. At that time, residents and users of this huge building site were able to see huge stocks of limestone stamped with the Beliris logo – the construction manager – and Kilkenny's career in Ireland. Part of the emblematic pedestrian in our capital will therefore be paved with stones, certainly from the European Union, but not from Belgium. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, do you know why Viabuild, to whom this important market has been notified, used an Irish supplier, whereas when submitting its list of potential subcontractors, it only mentioned Belgian names? Does a passage in the specifications allow you to denounce what is like a trick? Since it turns out, and I learned, that Kilkenny's career is owned by a Belgian carrier. This stock of Irish blue stones seems to be destined for the pavement of Brouckère Square and its immediate surroundings, the first slice of the market. Can we hope that the other areas of the yard (the last two slices of the market) can be filled with Belgian blue stones? What steps are you planning to take to achieve this beautiful goal of visibility of our know-how and heritage identity? The drafting technique of the specifications to promote "blue stones meeting the criteria defined by the Centre scientifique et technique de la construction, in its brochure NIT 220" failed since the Belgian blue stones were not chosen by Viabuild. How do you envisage changing the drafting of possible future specifications to ensure that the heritage and cultural coherence dear to Brusselsers and their visitors, be they Belgian or foreign?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u2	Madam President, Mr Hellings, I regret that I did not have the opportunity to answer your question earlier, but there have been a lot of proposals for dates and referrals to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In addition, the press has since relayed this question. The best way to work will therefore be to transmit the answer. There are two things to distinguish: the supplier of the stones, which are bought at a quarry, and the choice of a subcontractor to carry out the laying of these stones. The subcontractors responsible for laying the blue stones are Belgian nationals. It is therefore the know-how of the Belgian companies that is at work for the laying of these blue stones. As for the origin of the stones, Viabuild does mention in its tender form a list of potential suppliers, in which there are several Belgian suppliers of blue stones. However, provided that the subcontractor has the required approvals and that the supplier delivers materials in accordance with the requirements of the specification, there is nothing in the regulations in force to limit the freedom of the prime contractor to choose its subcontractors and suppliers. The information contained in its offer is therefore provided for information purposes and cannot be used by the administration to subsequently refuse a subcontractor or supplier that would not have been included in the list. As for the decision of the contractor Viabuild to choose Irish blue stones, the administration had an independent expert of the Scientific and Technical Centre for Construction verify that they were in conformity with the specifications. After examination, it turns out that they meet the technical and aesthetic requirements of the specifications. The choice is the responsibility of the Viabuild organization. It is therefore likely that the stones in the second tranche of the market also come from Irish quarries. The technical requirements of the specifications were intended to prevent the supply of blue stones whose technical characteristics are less good than those of blue stones of Belgian or Irish origin, the latter coming from the same geological layer. It is impossible, at a technical level, to distinguish them from their geographical origin, which, as you know, is strictly prohibited in European public procurement regulations. Perhaps by speaking to one or the other well-known European parliamentarian, you will be able to change this kind of European obligation, but, for the moment, we are trying to comply with the legislation in force. This may be surprising in Brussels, but at the level of the federal government, we are trying to comply with public procurement legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer. Like you, I regret the lack of interest of our colleagues in the Beliris dossiers. However, they are essential for the future of the Brussels Region. That's how it is. We will have an opportunity to discuss it on our own in the coming months. You are right, a European regulation is in force, and I have no doubt that your administration has taken the necessary steps to comply with it. We must therefore be able, for heritage and cultural reasons, to ensure that our towns and villages are dressed in Belgian blue stones or other structures that enhance the landscape, as has always been the case. This is part of the cultural heritage. This is a fight that we will all have to fight together, your party as well as mine, at European level. We will have to think about this in order to be sure that in the future this will not happen again. Finally, I understand that the rest of the pedestrian will be made of Irish stones.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u4	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, the European Sport Academy (ESA) aims to help young sportsmen and sportswomen develop their skills in an environment adapted to personal and professional development. ESA aims to develop its educational role by building a centre of excellence for the sports elite in the Brussels Region. This large-scale project is an opportunity for Brussels, allowing it both to renovate its sports facilities while strengthening its international influence as the capital of Belgium and Europe. The realization of this project would be an opportunity for Belgium to continue to organise the famous Van Damme Memorial, but also to apply for the hosting of international sports competitions such as the Euro 2022 of athletics. According to Le Soir of October 5, 2016 - in the meantime another article has appeared on this subject - Beliris has committed to finance a feasibility study worth almost 1.1 million euros. Beliris therefore plays a leading role, if not essential, in this study entrusted to the consortium Deloitte – ARUP - VUB. The Commission must take stock of the legal, financial and geographical conditions necessary for the implementation of this project. According to information released at the end of 2016, the feasibility study of the project to build a centre of excellence for the sports elite was scheduled to close by the end of February 2017. What is the status of this study? Could I have it? After the study of some 15 geographical sites, a list of the five high-potential sites was to be presented by the consortium Deloitte – ARUP - VUB. What are the five high-potential locations selected in Brussels? What are the conclusions of the study to understand this selection? If this study exists, what steps have Beliris already taken to support the implementation of the centre of excellence project?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u5	Mr Hellings, the study is now over. It was presented to the Accompanying Committee in January 2018; I keep a copy at your disposal. The Commission investigated 29 different sites and selected eight in a short list. After analysis, the following four locations were selected by the authors: two sites with an area of more than ten hectares - the Heysel plateau in Brussels and the Fallon stadium in Woluwe-Saint-Lambert, in combination with the Sport City complex in Woluwe-Saint-Pierre. Two sites with a surface area of less than 10 hectares were also selected: NATO sites A and B (Evere, Brussels and Zaventem) and the former Geruzet gendarmerie barracks in Etterbeek. These four locations were extracted from the short list after consideration of the following: - site information: location, perimeter and owner, expected cost and geometry; - spatial integration: use and context, visibility, landscape and environment, flood zones; - accessibility of the site: availability of the site in urban planning and future projects; - synergies. Consideration was also given to the development potential of these places, spatial adaptability and aspects related to safety and the environment, characteristics of the surroundings of the site: urban situation, urban planning. By analysing sites over ten hectares, the study concludes that the Heysel plateau has the best advantages: - high score for the criteria of accessibility, visibility and synergies with infrastructures available on site and nearby. Urban planning allows the development of the European Sport Academy (ESA) without the need for a change in the zoning plan; - the presence of a stadium incorporating a track of athletics; - safety and mobility. The study adds that in view of the intentions of the owner of the Heysel site, the Fallon-Sport City stadium combination is a preferred solution due to the potential synergies between the two sites. For sites of less than ten hectares, the study states (page 161) that "by its size and geographical form, the Geruzet barracks site is suitable for technical and sports science installations, but less suitable for the development of new sports grounds because of the building bodies already present on site. The NATO site (B and A) has good visibility and links to public transport. The two plots of land are large and offer the opportunity to develop several infrastructures without causing nuisances for the surroundings of the site. However, in the long term, the remote location of the site, the limited availability of sports infrastructure in the direct vicinity and the distance between the two parcels of land make this site less interesting compared to the Heysel and Fallon-Sport City sites. Finally, the role of Beliris was first of all to finance and ensure the control of the public market, so that we now have a feasibility study. Beliris has now asked the various municipal authorities concerned - Brussels, Woluwe-Saint-Pierre, Woluwe-Saint-Lambert - to formally indicate their interest in the project, as well as to lay down possible conditions for the development of the project which comprises different parts. The central question before continuing the study, if any, is to have a place available, to be able at that time to study the dimensioning and realization of the funding and to define a preliminary project transcribed in the drafting of a permit application. We will see with the different local authorities how to move forward on the basis of this study. I'm gonna ask you to get it back.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u6	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you. It is very interesting to see the Heysel mentioned in this study still very thorough, according to the first elements you have just given me. You did not specify the total cost, but it is true that I did not ask you the question. I'll ask you otherwise. So the Heysel is the perfect place. I think it would indeed be a nice way of valuing an important heritage which is not only a sporting heritage, but also a historical heritage where many events took place. Athletics has its place in Brussels. We will see how the future municipal councils of the City of Brussels, which I hope will not be amateurs, will manage this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u7	Mr. Secretary of State, with the Annex No. 12 for the period 2015-2017, the funds were more oriented towards what the original intention of the cooperation agreement was, namely to support the capital and international role of Brussels. The building infrastructure of the Cinquantenaire Museum is in a lamentable state. The building, its appearance and the number of visitors contrast sharply with similar museums in other capitals. Firstly, what is the timeline set for the elaboration of the next Annex No? 13 for the period 2018-2019? Secondly, what priorities has the federal government put forward for that sidekick? Thirdly, when will work be done on the complete renovation of the obsolete buildings in the Cinquantenaire Park? Will the funds be in Annex No. 13 are also used for the renovation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u8	Mr Van Peteghem, Annex No. 13 is currently under negotiation. There is a federal position. We are now waiting for a possible meeting with the government of the Brussels-Capital Region. I can't tell you a timeline right now. However, I hope that it will be possible to reach an agreement in the coming weeks. The priorities I am defending have already been mentioned on the occasion of my most recent general policy statement. I hope that Beliris will continue to focus on large-scale projects and devote more and more resources to mobility investments. As with any cooperation agreement, a consensus should be found with the Brussels-Capital Region. Annex 12 provides for EUR 30 million for the renovation of the federal scientific institutions or museums for Beliris. On 18 May 2017, the Council of Ministers approved in principle the launch of the studies for the renovation and restoration of four federal scientific institutions, including the Royal Museums of Art and History and the Royal Institute of Art Heritage, which are located in the Cinquantenary Park. Already EUR 16.6 million was reserved by Beliris for the renovation of the Museums of Art and History and Fine Arts in accordance with the programme for the allocation of the funds provided by the Buildings Management Committee to the Cooperation Committee. I am pleased to inform you that in April 2018 the commission for the renovation of the roofs of the Royal Museum of Art and History was awarded to the contractor by the Government of the Buildings. A sum of EUR 5 million is borne by Beliris and has already been committed here. Beliris is not involved in the renovation of other museums on the Jubelparksite. Finally, since Annex No 13 still being negotiated, I am not able today to indicate whether these additional funds will be sent to the museums on the site of the Jubelpark. In addition, the works for the restoration of the small heritage in the Cinquantenaire Park, such as statues, exedra's and fences, and the works for the lighting of the buildings will start in 2018-2019. I hope that we will soon find a date for a meeting with the Brussels Government. Immediately after the agreement, I will give more details to the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In any case, it is good news that some works have already been awarded. Those on that roof are one of them. However, I believe that more is needed than just the work on that roof. I've been there recently, and I thought it was just sad. That's not good for the appearance of our capital. It wouldn't be bad if there was more investment in it. We see the number of visitors declining. The resources available must certainly be used in this museum, in addition to the priorities you have set out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u10	Madam Minister, when the Belgian police carry out an alcohol check, in certain cases a doctor must be requested to carry out a blood sample, as provided for in Article 63 of the Road Traffic Act. The doctor who is being requisitioned for this must not escape it, but must go on the spot. There are, however, some exceptions in which the doctor may refuse the order, namely in the case of a medical counter-indication or a deontological objection. In the Netherlands, this can be done by both a doctor and a nurse. Dutch law provides that a doctor takes blood from a suspect to determine whether the suspect driver has an excessive alcohol promille or has taken too much drugs or medicines. In the case of a suspect who has participated in road traffic, this can also be done by a nurse. That power is laid down in Article 2 of the Decision functional independence of the Dutch legislation. Madam Secretary, there have been signs in the media about this from some general practitioners and sentries. Doctors who are on guard, especially in smaller sentries, find this very difficult organizationally. Madam Minister, what is your position, in the Dutch case, on the possibility, under certain conditions, of providing that the blood collection can also be carried out by nurses? I asked Minister Bellot this question earlier. He referred me to you. So I wonder what you're up against.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u11	Mrs Muylle, I used to have to do that myself, and it is indeed not the most pleasant job. Nevertheless, the monitoring of the use of alcohol and other substances in road traffic is strictly regulated in our legislation. This applies both to procedures, appliances and laboratories and to the qualification required for a reduction. This legislation indeed requires the intervention of a doctor. In the context of current public health legislation on the exercise of health professions, a nurse can only take blood samples on prescription and indication of a doctor. The recovery of the doctor is more than merely carrying out the technical operation of the blood collection. The whole of the court order cannot simply be taken up by another care profession. In any case, the proposal you are putting forward also presupposes legislative work, after extensive consultation of the field of work, both on the judicial side and on the part of health professionals, in particular doctors and nurses. My colleague responsible for Mobility has not yet contacted or asked any questions about this. I'll bring it up with him again. If that is in his policy objectives, we can work on it together. So far, however, we have not received any notice of this. It is not only about the blood sampling but also about the assessment of whether the patient is not at risk due to the intoxication.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u12	Madam Minister, I have also looked at the whole legislative framework. It is, of course, a very complex issue, which relates to both Mobility, Justice and Health. I see you're willing to have a conversation about that, should the question arise. I've also been in contact with Domus Medica about this. They gave the same answer, they are prepared to discuss it, but the problem is complex. In this sense, this needs to be properly aligned with the field of work. I fully agree with that and we will continue to look at how this is going.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u13	Mr Daniel Senesael requested the postponement of his question No 24565.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u14	Minister, there are regular stock breaks and temporary unavailability of drugs, and sometimes the deadline is extended. This is a problem which has significant consequences in the field: for pharmacists, for patients and therefore for doctors. This is not the first time I've asked you about this. The AFMPS (Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products), on its site, talks about a test phase that began in January 2018, an action plan for a drug or alternative treatment in case of temporary unavailability. I'd like to discuss it with you. Indeed, we are now in May and pharmacists still report significant problems on the ground and difficult to manage at certain times. Can you take stock of this action plan for concrete solutions and recommendations in case of temporary unavailability of medicines? What are the terms and objectives of what AFMPS cites as a test phase? What is the scale? How many pharmacists are involved? What are the modalities of alternative treatment and alternative treatment? In addition, how will this test phase be evaluated and when?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u15	Mrs Fonck, my services within the AFMPS receive a large number of notifications concerning the unavailability of medicines produced by pharmaceutical companies. The most common causes of unavailability are problems relating to production, delays in delivery, new batches of medicines which are not available in time or a temporary cessation of marketing decided by the firm itself. In the vast majority of cases, these unavailabilitys do not cause problems for public health, either because the unavailability is short-lived or because alternatives exist in sufficient quantity. A Working Group on Unavailability of Medicines has been set up by AFMPS and INAMI to seek solutions to problems related to the unavailability of medicines. This group is composed of representatives of the various actors involved in this field. This led in particular to the creation of a single notification point for pharmaceutical companies in order to communicate data on the availability or unavailability of medicinal products on the Belgian market. The working group has developed a decision tree that determines the actions to be taken in the case of unavailability, in order to minimize the negative impact of unavailability on the patient. Thus, as soon as a notification of unavailability is made, the notification shall be examined to determine whether it is likely to pose a public health problem. This is the case if it is a medicine considered essential for public health, without an alternative, and if the expected duration of unavailability is sufficiently long. In the event of a public health problem, one of the solutions may, for example, be the granting of a derogation to a pharmaceutical firm, on the advice of the advisory commission set up with the AFMPS, so that the firm may temporarily import consignments of medicinal products authorised and available abroad, and distribute them in Belgium in order to remedy the temporary unavailability of the medicinal product. It can go fast. We knew the case with a drug that was unique in our market, Creon de Mylan. The AFMPS has asked Mylan, the pharmaceutical company, to re-import lots that were already abroad to prevent our patients from being denied access to this medicine. Mylan made and assured that the problem was solved. We hope that's true. The working group is also considering a project to set up a communication platform, from which all relevant stakeholders in the sector will be able to communicate notifications of unavailability of medicines. This will make matters easier and will also be useful for pharmacists. The working group is still meeting regularly to take further initiatives to find further solutions to the problems of unavailability of medicines, as well as to take preventive measures to avoid these problems. In particular, adaptations to legislation are envisaged. One of the proposals currently being considered by the working group is to provide pharmacists with the legal possibility of exceptionally replacing a drug under certain well-defined conditions. So far, however, no decision has been taken on this matter. Work continues. From time to time, we are told that such action can be taken. That's how it works. It must be said that in our neighbouring countries this is not the case. Their agency does not always show the same vigilance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u16	Madam Minister, thank you. If I understand correctly, it is not only a certain part of the territory concerned, but all the agencies, potentially, can, at some point, operate the device. But it is a piecemeal device, if I understand correctly, depending on the drug and the information obtained from the firms. Shouldn't there be another component? I have no doubt that the AFMPS is trying to manage this at best, and it is true that it is complicated. But pharmacists tell me that there is always a difficulty because, for medicines that are out of stock, there is no possibility of giving the patient a similar refund for an equivalent medicine. Obviously, this still poses problems while logically, since the drug is out of stock, this should not happen. I think there may also be a difficulty on these famous signals, depending on the lines, whether they are in the right category or not, in terms of reimbursement. This is an important problem still on the ground. You took Creon's example. We can see with the firm what the possibilities are for the referral of drugs. Latency time, stock failure, can be a problem for patients. Especially since, as you know, in the Creon example, there are many tablets a day.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u17	As for the example of Creon, the difficulty is that the patient must ingest many tablets daily. In addition, there is no alternative to this medicine. If this were the case, it could be decided that the alternative drug may temporarily receive the same reimbursement as that provided for Creon. If Creon were again to be imported into our country, its price should remain the same for the government, but also for patients. However, alternative medicines may be more expensive while patients should benefit from the same conditions as those prescribed at the base. In fact, I am very concerned about the impact of Brexit in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u18	There will indeed be an impact for firms.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u19	Yesterday, I went to London to discuss the matter. Problems will arise for all patients and not just for patients in England. This is therefore an issue to be addressed by all European Ministers of Public Health. Indeed, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) will see its work interrupted due to two moves - in a district of Amsterdam and in the south of the city. Two moves in a few months, it's not nothing. In addition, many families will also have to move and work will have to continue despite the difficulties encountered by Brexit. It really is a threat. So far, everyone thought Brexit would have consequences only in England, but there will be consequences everywhere. It is therefore necessary to anticipate the problems that might arise. During my visit to London, a representative of the AFMPS was present to cooperate with our working group and to anticipate, as far as possible, the problems related to Brexit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u20	Madam Minister, thank you for this additional information. If stock issues and stock failures among pharmacists are not the consequence of Brexit today, it is clear that Brexit will pose a problem in the markets. To return to the problems faced by our pharmacists, a piecemeal system has been put in place but it is too downstream. I plead that in Belgium, in addition to all the new technologies, we have the capacity to anticipate stock failures, even if we force pharmaceutical companies, especially those that are very far away, to give information beforehand when they no longer deliver our country. Expectation of stock failure would avoid an additional delay during which the drug would not be delivered to patients. I really plead for anticipation. Today, regularly, there is a wait for stock failure to trigger a procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u21	Yes, this is often the case, but since the installation of this mechanism, messages are sent before there is a stock failure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u22	Minister, anticipating more and better would be beneficial for both pharmacists and patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Senesael's 24592 question was converted into a written question because it could no longer be postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u24	Madam Chair, Minister, I will go straight to the point. I'm not going to repeat all the history of the problem we know. The eAttest system has been introduced. Software has been accredited, notably by the Internmutualist College. However, there is still a pitfall: the government has not foreseen anything on the tax side. When my question was tabled last March, the ABSyM had sent the message to the doctors that they should not continue to use the eAttest but should return to the numbered certificate books which are a reliable means of justifying the income with the tax administration. It is unfortunate and damaging that the tax component was not examined in due course, i.e. before the eAttest was introduced. But let us look to the future. Minister, is there a clear solution for the tax component of eAttest? The National Medical-Mutualist Commission had spoken of a solution by the end of April. Are these problems now resolved? Is the case tax-concrete? So, can doctors be reassured on this point?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u25	Mrs Fonck, in fact, no official consultation was planned with the Department of Finance prior to the launch of the eAttest. This did not seem necessary since eAttest is in the same domain as eFact, already properly framed. However, the software solutions were all designed to generate the right tax supporting documents for the services provided, using the correct secure method and format. It was also intended that these supporting documents could not be manipulated by the provider in the database of his office system. In the meantime, this has been covered in detail with the Department of Finance, which has given its green light. So there's no problem with the tax. My services within INAMI have sent an official letter explaining in detail the agreements with the FPS Finances and the procedures to be followed to provide tax supporting documents from this system. The problems found in the software – which were due to errors made when the certificate was issued – were resolved. It should also be noted that only a few software applications were involved. In any case, they were all examined. It seems to me, moreover, that Hans D'Hondt, the chairman of the SPF, has communicated on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u26	Madam Minister, thank you. If the problem is solved, I can only welcome it, although I must regret that it has not been sufficiently anticipated. Indeed, the tax authorities had to give their green light before remedying it. In addition, errors had been found in software that had been accredited by the authorities. I hope that in the event of a recurrence, we will react in good time, that is, before the installation of the system, and not as a result of such events. That's not very serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u27	Madam President, I propose that you turn my questions Nos 24600 and 24601 into written questions. Indeed, they related to factual, not political, aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u28	That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u29	Madam Chair, Minister, in 2009, INAMI launched a call for projects called Protocol 3 to keep seniors at home as long as possible. A second call for projects was launched in August 2013 for projects starting in September 2014. The selected pilot projects implement different ways of coordinating care and home-based services that have long proven their effectiveness. An evaluation of the efficiency of these projects is obviously planned. It focuses on the ability of these projects to delay entry into nursing homes or nursing homes, as well as their consequences in terms of the consumption of health care (hospitalization, nursing, physiotherapy and logopedia). Other dimensions are also taken into account, affecting the health and quality of life of the person and close caregivers. Minister, what is the status of these pilot projects? What has been the evolution of Protocol 3 funding since the implementation of these projects in 2010? Is a new call for projects envisaged? How many of these projects are being implemented? How is their assessment going? Today, we are reminded, for example, that the Dionysos project, an initiative of the Rivage-den-Zaet Mental Health Service, which has been actively engaged for the last eight years, was "off-the-shelf" on social networks with availability on 1 June 2018, as its funding is not guaranteed since the objective of delaying institutionalisation is not achieved. However, the evaluation of this project has highlighted better use of health care, reduced use of emergencies, reduced depression, better use of front-line care, better adaptation to the integration of a nursing home. Funding appears to be jeopardized by federal decisions, on the grounds that the goal of delaying institutionalization is not achieved. Could you therefore explain why the balance in this case is moving towards a halt in the financing of the project, which nevertheless fulfils a series of important objectives in the area of assistance to the elderly? Is it not time to sustain the projects in this framework and to provide them with structural funding to enable them to continue to meet the needs for assistance to people? What about consultations with federated entities in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u30	Madam Minister, one of the themes to be addressed here is the study of the Federal Knowledge Centre in the framework of the GGZ for the elderly. I will not fully quote the content of this study here because I am sure you are well aware of its full content. Your services were present on the board of directors of the knowledge centre. The conclusion was that, within the framework of the GGZ, older people should be used to clarify and strengthen the role of the first line. Furthermore, it involved the use of mobile teams specifically for elderly psychiatry and the strengthening of specialised care in residential care centres. Specific questions were also put to you and your colleagues in the Communities. Among other things, there was a question about the BelRAI. Has this instrument proven its usefulness in detecting and treating GGZ problems or is it merely a reference under Protocol 3? What are the first experiences? Is there a need for re-direction? The KCE also advocates psychiatric mobile teams in the care of the elderly. Can they be integrated into the existing adult teams? This recommendation was also made in the mobile teams working group of the consultation body 107. What is its impact on resources? This will have an impact on the mobile teams in the context of the adults, Article 107. Should it or should it not come from the phasing-out of beds provided for in Article 107? A comment was also made during the Management Board on the cost picture, the financing system. The question is whether you can make an assessment of it. What's your recommendation? What about the organizational model that the KCE proposes for the acute beds in the hospital? Another question concerns the systematic screening of residential care centres to address GGZ problems. Why is that only happening there? Shouldn't we be looking at the emergency services, too? After all, we know that there are a lot of problems coming in there too, and often even people with a combination of problems. The KCE is not in favour of a separate network. This does not, of course, alter the need for a specific policy on the elderly, as we already have for children and young people in the GZM today. Shouldn't there be a specific guide for the elderly like we do for the others? What can we expect or not? What budget should be allocated by the GGZ services and the mobile teams for more interventions at home? This is mentioned in the core message only in function 1, 2 and 5. Several messages have been included in the report. So also with functions 3 and 4, that's important. The study affects both the powers of the federal government and those of the Communities. How's that? Will this point be discussed at the forthcoming Inter-Ministerial Conference? Will a concrete policy and action plan for older people still be drawn up during this legislative period, or is this rather a start-up note which could serve for a subsequent legislative period?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u31	Madam President, these are two separate questions that do not belong together. First of all, I will answer Mr Frédéric separately, because these are really different questions. There are currently 38 Protocol 3 projects with INAMI. The annual budget earmarked for these projects amounts to a total of EUR 12 277,000. I decided to extend this budget until 2020 included. This means that we are going to give ourselves time for the decision. Funding is provided up to and including 2020. It's not really structural, but it can give us time. The scientific evaluation phase is closed. The inter-university consortium that conducted the evaluation submitted its evaluation report and recommendations. INAMI published them on its website earlier this year. The consortium report recommends that home interventions, occupational therapy management and psychological follow-up be sustained. These are interventions for which it had both sufficient data and positive results. Conversely, this report does not evaluate projects such as Dionysos on an individual basis and makes no recommendations to them. The INAMI Health Care Service is preparing a draft convention to finance these three types of interventions during the third phase of the Protocol 3 projects between 31 August 2018 (end of the current Convention) and 31 December 2020, within the framework of the reserved budget. On 27 April 2018, the service met with the currently agreed projects to present the results of scientific research, the current status of the new convention and the prospects for its implementation and to take note of their requests. A call will be made within the agreed projects to identify those who wish to conclude this agreement and who meet the conditions. Projects providing other types of care may continue to do so by concluding an amendment to the new Convention if such care is actually provided under the current Convention, subject to the approval of the competent bodies of INAMI. The Dionysos project, like all other agreed projects, will be able to apply for the conclusion of the new convention and possibly ask for specific care to be taken into account in the context of an amendment. Finally, I would like to inform you that the consultation with the federated entities takes place through the Intercabinet Working Group on Chronic Diseases in the Interministerial Conference on Public Health. The Committee has recently been consulted on certain aspects of the new Convention. To the questions relating to mental health care for the elderly, I can answer that the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health on 21 March 2016 endorsed the protocol agreement on the establishment of the minimum data set for the common registration in all institutions active in the field of mental health care. This ratification means that all governments have committed themselves to registering in their regulations the obligation to launch a joint survey in all GGZ facilities. One of the possibilities of achieving such a common registration is the delivery of a minimal dataset from BelRAI to a RAI Mental Health adapted to the Belgian context. This possibility is also currently being examined by the Interkabinets Working Group. A financial impact analysis is not part of the research project, set up by the KCE. The KCE indicates that it has not made a recommendation on the winding-up or creation of hospital beds. However, it states that there should be sufficient provision for persons for whom community-oriented care...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Due to lack of data, the KCE has not proposed an organisational model. The study therefore focuses primarily on community-oriented care and not on the possible reorganisation of residential care. In its observations and analyses in this study, the KCE does not explicitly focus on the detection of psychiatric and psychological problems in emergency services. You know that our country has been using GGZ networks for adults since 2011 and since 2015, that is the first thing we have done in the Inter-Ministerial Conference, on networks for children and young people. Two respective guides provide the framework. The direction takes place through intense cooperation between the federal government and the Länder. The question of whether a guide for the elderly is necessary is addressed by the IKW. Indeed, the KCE has already proposed the study, after which it was decided to submit any further steps to the next Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health. Finally, in its study, the KCE does not indicate that functions 3 and 4 should not be considered. For example, function 3, rehabilitation, is named in core message 16, where the importance is stressed to continue to be part of society.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u32	I thank the Minister for her response. I have taken note that the amount of EUR 12 277,000 is therefore retained until 2020 inclusive. With regard to the particular case cited by Dionysos, could they continue their activity by adding to the convention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u33	Yes, by an avenger. Because they also have different functions and this could be requested in an amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u34	So an addition to the original convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u35	Yes, that's it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u36	So it's not the automatic liquidation of...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u37	No, not at all! I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u38	All right. I will relay the information and thank you for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u39	Madam Minister, the dossier will certainly be referred back to the follow-up to the KCE study and to the forthcoming Inter-Ministerial Conference. About the specific guide for the elderly, I will ask you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u40	Madam President, Minister, my question dates back a few months ago. In mid-December 2017, the Wake-Up Call Movement, an interest association for people suffering from chronic fatigue syndrome, made a written appeal to the federal and Flemish authorities. You also received this letter. This letter calls on the authorities to recognise that the diseases ME and CVS have an organic basis and that health policy needs to be adapted to this. Currently in Belgium, CVS is still regarded as a somatoform disorder in practice, with RIZIV conventions providing for the reimbursement of cognitive behavioral therapy and gradual practice therapy as proven treatments for CVS. A remarkable fact is that the evidence for these treatments at different levels is questioned by foreign studies and research institutes. The reason for this is that many of these studies doubt the usefulness of the treatments because they are of poor quality or do not use the right selection criteria. Already in 2008, the Belgian KCE reported that the treatments do not always or insufficiently work. So there is a problem with our current CVS policy, especially because there are not enough centres that have signed the RIZIV Convention. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Is it true that there are only 16 cognitive behavioral therapists in our country willing to participate in the convention providing for outpatient care regarding CGT and GET? Is it true that the Flemish Association of Clinical Psychologists opposed the convention because the protocol would run counter to the basic philosophy of cognitive behavioral therapy? Is it true that there is only one recognized diagnostic centre working at the KU Leuven while many more were promised? Are you prepared to respond to the requests of the Wake-up Call Movement? This concerns the recognition of ME and CVS as diseases with a biological basis. Will you draw up a new plan taking into account recent advice from the Dutch Health Council that ME and CVS do recognise as a chronic disease? Finally. Has the Wake-up Call Movement received an answer from you in the meantime? At the time I raised the question, that was not the case, but it has been over for several months, so that you may be able to respond positively.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u41	Mrs Dedry, you are talking about information we received on 11 December, but to my knowledge and that of the Chamber, your question only arrived on 30 March. That's more than three months apart. It arrived on 30 March and is being answered today, despite the hearings and the crocus and Easter holidays that have come between them. This is a long time after the communication's been there. At present, there are 31 cognitive behavioral therapists who carry out treatment sessions in their private cabinets for those patients for whom a multidisciplinary diagnostic centre for CVS has diagnosed CVS and recommended treatment with cognitive behavioral therapy. The Flemish Association of Clinical Psychologists indeed called on its members in 2014 not to apply to be able to complete the sessions. The reasons given by the association have to do with the objection of being bound by a certain treatment protocol, but also with the 50 euro rate for 50 minutes. They say it's too low. The association asked to be able to charge a free rate, but due to the need for tariff security for the patients this was not addressed. As regards the protocol, the CBO from the Netherlands recommended in 2013 that the therapist should follow a therapy protocol that has been shown to be effective in a clinical study. This recommendation was included in the agreement with the Centre. The centre of the UZ Leuven has also drawn up a protocol in consultation with the Association for Behavioural Therapists. That is indeed only one center of the three under my predecessor, which has concluded this agreement. Seven hospitals applied in 2014, but only one, the UZ Leuven, withdrew at the time the agreement was due to start. They were not convinced, among other things, that there would be sufficient therapists meeting the training criteria of the agreement, in particular being a master in clinical psychology and having followed a postgraduate on cognitive behavioral therapy. The 31 therapists who have been accepted by the RIZIV did comply with these conditions. As regards your last two questions, at the end of the pilot phase of the agreement on 31 August 2018, an in-depth evaluation of the implementation of the agreement should be carried out not only by the Centre of the University of Leuven but also by an objective scientific assessment of what is currently known with sufficient certainty about CVS or ME, in particular its nature, diagnosis and effective therapies. This task is currently under way, at my request. I am not going to anticipate the outcome of this evaluation and the impact on the possible model of care, but of course we must take account of the new guidelines which have also been drawn up very recently abroad and are also the subject of numerous scientific meetings abroad. This analysis should be carried out objectively, taking into account the divisions that exist about the best approach to this condition. That division's been there the whole time. I used to ask questions about it to Minister Vandenbroucke. Moreover, the UK's leading NICE does not plan a revision of its CVS guidelines until 2020. Other bodies are already working on this. So there is indeed an evaluation and a scientific update coming. It may also require policy adjustments. In the meantime, patients' associations are also being consulted. The Wake-up Call Movement has been invited to the Cabinet and several of their questions and sighs were answered in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u42	I thank the Minister for her comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u43	Debates of the European Parliament 24790 by Mrs Muylle, which is my own, will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 24795 by Mrs Van Hoof Mrs Dedry, you have the floor for your question on dental care.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u44	We have launched a number of proposals for more accessible dental care. So we want to make basic dental care under 18 really free. We also want dentists to stick to the official rates. We also want a third-payer scheme for those who are struggling, oral coaches for people from opportunity groups and mandatory offers for dental treatments that cost more than 200 euros. Patients sometimes delay dental care because they do not know in advance what it will cost. We are also working for a better refund for crowns and for orthodontics. It is also necessary to extend the reimbursement of preventive dental care, which now exists for at-risk groups, to patients recovering from cancer. We also propose to introduce a digital oral care passport, which is managed together with the GP. In this way the general practitioner also gets a role and can better follow dental care, especially when he finds that the patient does not attend the dentist often enough. Of course, the profession of dentist should be supported and the current rates reviewed and ways of making the profession more attractive should be sought. Madam Secretary, what is your opinion on these various proposals to deal with dental care in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u45	Mrs Dedry, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that initiatives on improving dental care are usually regulated through the national agreement on dental insurance, better known as the Dentomut agreement. The ongoing agreement for the years 2017 and 2018 already contains a number of initiatives that partly meet the aspirations set out in the Green dental care plan. For example, an amount of EUR 10.237 million is provided for better reimbursement of what is called difficult restorations in cancer patients and patients with anodontics with crowns, bridges and implants. There is also better access to surgical extractions in patients undergoing anticoagulant treatment or post-operative bleeding and there is a redeployment of preventive treatment in children. These are small steps in better reimbursement, but the budgetary context requires caution. We take these measures one by one, with a roadmap. Accessibility via the third-payer is possible for benefits in kind which are not subject to a third-payer's ban through the optional third-payer. It is therefore possible for a number of things now, but only if one is not subject to a ban. It is then a question of more specialized activities. The oral care pathway gave rise to 10% more patients who went to the dentist in 2015, compared to 2014. That was an important step, but it can always be better. A dental visit is important and also has a preventive role. The evaluation of the oral care pathway is provided for in the agreement, with a view to its continued promotion. Your proposal for the oral care coach belongs more to the community officials, because it is about raising children, brushing their teeth, and encouraging people to go to the dentist with their children. I have already received questions from Mrs Gerkens, Mrs Fonck and Mr Frédéric about older people, for whom we are federally competent. We have recognized dental hygienist as a health profession. His duties, although delegated by a dentist, include cleaning teeth, removing tartar and making a kind of bilan. They can also go to rest homes and disability institutions. A delegation of these tasks by the dentist is possible, given also the scarcity of dentists. The dental quotas have been set. There's a catch-up movement going on. I'm transferring your proposals to the National Committee on Dentists and Medical Funds. Perhaps this will give them the inspiration for their Dentomut agreement that should be renegotiated by the end of 2018? This used to be done under the chairmanship of Mr De Ridder. I suspect that this will now be done by his successor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u46	I was present at Mr De Ridder's farewell. By the way, you gave a very humorous speech at the time. Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I read today's press release on dental quotas. In any case, it is very important that these quotas meet the needs. As far as quotas are concerned, you certainly have my support. When you talk to dentists, you also feel that this is a tough profession and that a large number of good-mannered dentists are dropping out. Supporting the profession of dentist therefore seems important to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u47	Madam President, Madam Minister, this is a question of a state of affairs. With the regularity of a clock new cases appear in the press about increasing hospital fees and answers when some incident occurs and they can't do otherwise because hospital funding is not good. I know you've already taken big steps, the first one being the low-variable care. I have also read that the KCE does not consider the high variable care to be so simple and obvious, but I believe that it is absolutely very important that this continues quickly. So this is a question of timing for the new hospital funding. Where are you with the low variable and the high variable care?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u48	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, I am very concerned about accessibility. We have already taken important steps in this legislative period to reduce wage supplements. You know that there are no more pay supplements available in double rooms, in day shots and in classical hospitalization. When concluding the recent agreement between doctors and health insurance funds, the medicomut agreement applicable for 2018 and 2019, which partly coincides with that of the dentists, it was agreed that consideration would be given to how a standstill could be achieved for both the pay supplements and the payments. We are now giving the partners of the Medicomut Committee, doctors and sickness funds the opportunity to take full responsibility for the patient by the end of June. When it comes to pay supplements, of course, hospitals are also involved. Through the system of payments, the pay supplements are currently an important source of income for many hospitals. The abolition of wage supplements without a doubt is heavy in the short term. As I said, I believe that we will be there in the long term if we continue with a different hospital funding. As far as hospital funding is concerned, several work packages have reached the stage of legal or regulatory implementation. In the implementation of the coalition agreement and of my plan of action, I will shortly present two important preliminary drafts to the Chamber, which have already been adopted at a first reading in the Council of Ministers. These are the clinical hospital networks that will promote cooperation between hospitals and the new financing of low variable care. In other words, for the care of the same patient group, i.e. for patients receiving the same diagnosis or treatment, a global prospective amount is agreed in advance. Regardless of the hospital where the patient is being treated, the costs for the patient and the government will be the same. Other work packages are in a project phase, such as the well-known project of abbreviated hospital stay in childbirth, or their study phase is terminated, such as the unraveling of the budget of the hospital's financial resources. Several work packages will be implemented in this legislative period, such as the introduction of pay for quality in hospital funding. Other work packages will continue in the next legislative term. Already at the presentation of my plan of action on 28 April 2015, I said that the reform of hospital funding could never be completed in a single legislative period. I would remind you that it took Denmark 20 years. It is our ambition to be able to complete all this work in two legislative hours. So a lot of material will be ready for further implementation. I myself will do what I can in the remaining year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u49	Madam Secretary, I do understand that this exercise is not easy, as everything is on the same page. The question is what we should hope for in another legislature: another minister or the same minister in order to be able to pursue the policy? I wonder what's best. I note that you also mention the example of the short stay. However, after the last conversation with your cabinet, which dates from this morning, we have been left in great vagueness. So I hope you know more than what we were allowed to hear this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, it remains immensely difficult to get the committee organized today. We call members all the time. They say that they will come, but then they will not show up. From now on, I would like to show respect for those Members who are present. Merged questions will therefore be addressed, even if only one of the proposers is present. Another possibility is to postpone the questions. The secretary of the committee has been calling incessantly. The phone isn't answering or the members don't show up. This is not a good way for us to proceed. We need the questions put together under item 19. Two of the three members of these combined questions asked for a postponement. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 24824 by Mrs Fonck, 24836 by Mrs Gerkens and 25061 by Mr Senesael were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u51	Madam Chair, a question is postponed if it has not already been postponed, I suppose? We're keeping the rule, aren't we?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u52	Yes, yes, you're right. We checked: It was only until Question 7 that all the questions were already postponed. For the other questions this is the first time. In this way, everyone has the right to do so. I have to abide by the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u53	Okay, it's okay, it's okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u54	Madam Secretary, since 1986, the mughelikopter has been run by the Institute for Urgent Medical Assistance in Bruges, a private non-profit association. The mughelikopter offers permanent availability between sunrise and sunset, 7 days at 7. Departing from its base location, in AZ Sint-Jan in Bruges, the mughelikopter can land in all West Flanders, a large part of East Flanders and in Zeeland within 15 minutes. The number of interventions of the mughelikopter on an annual basis is up to 700 of which 85 % primary interventions and 15 % transports between hospitals. Unlike the mosquito services by road, the mughelikopter does not receive a federal subsidy. However, patients who fly with the mughelikopter pay the same rate as patients who are transported with an ambulance. The annual cost of the mughelikopter amounts to 650,000 euros. The problems of financing have been dragging on for years. The funding is largely financed by the province of West Flanders, but this is becoming increasingly difficult due to shifting powers. In January, the West Flemish provincial council unanimously voted for a motion demanding basic funding from the federal government. In addition to the province, many Western Flemish municipalities and also some eastern Flemish peripheral municipalities contribute annually. The Dutch Sluis and Terneuzen also pay an annual contribution. In addition, sponsoring is called upon, including through individual donations. The mughelikopter has proved its worth. The use of the mughelikopter saves an average of 40 additional lives every year, both in places that are difficult to reach by a bad road network and in very densely populated areas where there is a lot of traffic. Madam Secretary, what initiatives will you take to keep the West Flemish mughelikopter in the air?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u55	Thank you, colleague, for your question. I think you have outlined the problem very well. It is a dossier that lives in our province, especially in terms of funding and commitment from the province and municipalities. Depending on the population, they make a corresponding contribution, including in the financing of the mughelikopter. Also with our local authorities this is a file that is very much alive because in the context of urgent medical care and the rewriting of the landscape that is taking place there, especially in West Flanders, I am thinking of the region of Diksmuide with blind spots. As a result, the mughelikopter is seen as very important in the context of this urgent medical treatment. I think the question is very clear. There's a demand for federal funding. As Mr Lambrecht says, this has been unanimously voted by all political parties, both by majority and opposition within the province, with the demand for federal funding. Madam Secretary, I know that last year you included in the Summer Agreement a new plan of Urgent Medical Assistance. I believe that an additional EUR 45 million was allocated for this purpose. The question is, how do you see the future of that mugheli? Mrs Lambrecht has already said that this is mainly about primary transport, such as emergency intervention, and much less secondary transport, such as transport between hospitals. How do you see the future? I think I read in your starting note for the above-mentioned plan that you consider interhospital traffic more important and would also like to use the helicopter, whether or not linked to a general hospital. There is a cost of EUR 650 000, but it does not take into account the use of a hospital such as Saint-Jan in the field of emergency doctors and nurses who fly with that mugheli. That cost has therefore yet to be charged. Do we have to understand from the start note that you see the helicopter as a university mission in the context of hospital networks? Or can this be awarded to a general hospital as is the case today in Bruges? We would have liked to have your opinion and your plans with the helicopter, which nevertheless has a pretty great emotional value because even the TV program Heroes in the air is dedicated to it. In my opinion, this dossier has a fairly large support base in our province. I would have liked to know how you see the future of that mugheli.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u56	Mrs Lambrecht and Mrs Muylle, this is not the first time we have talked about this. As I said in October 2017, my plan "non-planable care" deals with the use of helicopters in our Belgian health system. Mrs Lambrecht, you say that there is no federal funding so far, but you are mistaken because there is. To date, in the framework of the pilot projects, the federal government has provided funding for two helicopters in our country, one in AZ Sint-Jan Bruges and the other in Bra-sur-lienne of the CHU de Liège. This amounts to EUR 62 000 twice a year. This is the budget that we have within the closed envelope of 'non-planable care', which is allocated to these helicopters. This amount is in addition to the mosquito funding that both hospitals also receive. Experience with the pilot projects provides an interesting input to the analysis currently being carried out by my services. On the basis of the reports received on the projects and international scientific evidence, several slopes were analysed. The use of helicopters for urgent medical interventions as well as for the secondary transport of patients between hospitals was considered. The conditions under which helicopters can be used and the specifications for our country were also studied. You say you can always do that, from sunrise to sunset. That's not right. If there is too much wind or too little visibility, in fog, rain or a blizzard, it seems obvious to me that a helicopter cannot fly. You can't just land anywhere. One had to land on a beach, after which the helicopter was out of battle for two months. There's a lot of maintenance on a helicopter. From this one can conclude that the helicopter is not available for seven days on seven and certainly not always from sunrise to sunset. The analyses, which are objective figures, facts and figures, show that the deployment of helicopters in our country should be reviewed. At present, helicopters are mainly used as a primary means of intervention in urgent medical care. The analysis indicates that for our territory there can be a great added value for the use of helicopters for secondary interhospital transport over longer distances of patients with a time-critical condition. The use of the helicopter as a primary means of emergency medical assistance may continue to be useful in certain circumstances, but complementary to the rest of the emergency medical assistance. You know this goes under closed envelope. So if we give more resources to helicopters, we give less resources to mosquitoes, PITs and ordinary ambulances. I would therefore like to point out that in this legislature the budget for urgent medical aid has been multiplied by three. So this government invests a lot. It is also the first time that a complete plan for the landscape has been made, based on the intervention times of a mosquito, a PIT or an ambulance. We will continue to implement this vision in the near future. I also retain the current federal funding of EUR 62 000. However, I cannot increase them to what you propose by a few hundred thousand euros. This would be negligent in relation to the rest of the operationalisation of the plan. For me, the funding can continue, but I won't raise it. That is where we will have to take account of developments in the field of hospital reform. In 2018, I would like to focus on the reform of the basic resources of urgent medical assistance. As I said, I was able to bring the budget of EUR 26 million to EUR 74 million in this legislative period, which we can work on. First, therefore, the reform of urgent medical aid for land resources and, once developed on the ground, will be analysed where helicopters can be used most efficiently and effectively in addition to the organisation of the ground resources. We've already had a calculation of the resources we need for that. One pitch appears to be enough for our country, but we do need several helicopters and accompanying staff. For example, there are also long maintenance periods of doing. That exercise has already started, but first things first. It was a pilot project and this is without prejudice to it. The reform of emergency medical aid on the ground is also important for the other areas of our country. I can spend more money on this than on the helicopters, we are talking about quite different sizes of necessary investments. That is about hundreds of thousands of euros. I must be pragmatic in this and it must be financially feasible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u57	Madam Minister, it is a great deal, but I hear that an analysis is now under way and that there will be reporting. On the other hand, I think I understand a little that there is no good news for the mugheli in the decision-making process. Even if the report is yet to come, you are already saying that you will not increase the amount of EUR 62 000. I do not understand how you can say that even if the report is not yet ready. You're saying there's only one place left. That means...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u58	I say that, pending that study, I will continue to give the funds but not raise them. That's right. I would also like to say that there is already an investigation in progress to find out where urgent medical assistance by air would be needed in our country. It turned out that this is not really necessary where it is used now because of the fact that ambulances, PITs and mosquitoes, have a good accessibility. Moreover, they often need to be used in addition when that helicopter takes off because it simply cannot land or take off everywhere. Usually the patient still has to be transported to and from the helicopter by the other hospital transport. A study is therefore under way in which it is said that one helicopter stand in our country could cover the whole territory. There should be several helicopters there because they cannot be in the air all the time. It just can't be. They are fragile devices that often require long-term maintenance. So that's what's going on in there. They will play a different role in the secondary transport of diseases, but in order to know what this other role will be, we must first have the roll-out of the plan for urgent medical assistance. Did I speak Chinese for you? I thought this was obvious. But you recapitulate and say other things, and I can't let that happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u59	Madam Secretary, can I get the answer on paper later, so there are certainly no misunderstandings? I thought I had heard that the EUR 62 000 would remain for the time being and that one place would be considered for the future. The most important question is when certainty will come. What's the timing? When will we be able to tell the people who are working on these services with full certainty what the decisions of reporting are? Is that something for this year? Or is that something that's gonna take longer?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u60	Madam Secretary, this is a very sensitive and emotional dossier. It's also a file of a lot of believers. Recently a child was saved in Heuvelland where the mosquito was not in time...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u61	Emotion is one thing, analysis and data are another. I understand the emotion, but here emotion transcends the sober analysis. I have already been pointed out that pancakes were sold. I think that's all very well. Such cool things happen from a gut feeling in the community. But with me it is not about the proceeds of a sale of pancakes, it is about several hundred million euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u62	Madam Secretary, you're pulling it on bottles now, too. There has indeed been a pancake sale and it will only contribute to the resources for a fraction. We note today that, in addition to federal funding, the rest is largely supported by the province, which finances EUR 115 000, and by the cities and municipalities. Today, my city also finances 8 000 euros in this project, as well as 49 other cities and municipalities in West Flanders, which also co-finance this. And that's because a lot of local governments and mayors see the need for urgent medical transportation. West Flanders is not an easy province in that respect. You too know the files on PIT and mosquito on the Coast. There are also questions in terms of accessibility. I understand that you will not ban it, so you will retain the pilot project and the EUR 62 500 in federal funding. I also understand clearly that the emphasis for you is on interhospital, on secondary. The figures show that, too. One has to look at one place of work, which will then be based on secondary transport. I think that this dossier too will certainly be taken to the next legislature. I will learn from your answer that we can perpetuate the current situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u63	That's right. Mrs Lambrecht, on timing, I have said that we will be implementing the reform of the resources of urgent medical assistance throughout 2018. Only when this has happened can we take a step further, again on the basis of figures of intervention times, etc., to find out where there may be a need to use air transport. Until then, our funding will continue and until then, the two current helicopters pitches will remain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u64	Madam President, Minister, this is my most important question this afternoon, especially after the article that, coincidentally or not, appeared today in De Morgen, about the general practitioners' post in Leuven, which I know very well and which is very close to my heart. I am glad that this question can be addressed today. You have already received a concerned letter from the watch station Flanders and I share their concerns. There is a constructive participation in working groups at policy level. That is not a problem, but there are still a lot of questions about the planned reform, especially in terms of timing, as is shown by the aid cry from the Leuven and other guards. General practitioners fear insufficient representation in the new guidance platform now that the working group on medicomut general practitioners' wards has been abolished. They already experience insufficient expertise in the field, although it was present in the working group. They also raise the scale increase. From a certain scale, there is no more efficiency gains, as is shown by practice. The advantages do not outweigh the disadvantages. They are very concerned about the funding. Watch stations Flanders made a very comprehensive vision paper in 2017, which was very well worked out and with which clearly did not go ice over one night. I agree with you that the reform of the sentries must be synchronised with the reform of the emergency services, but there must be a clear locking system which always leads the patient to the echelon where he belongs and makes the improper use of the emergency service impossible once and for all and provides emergency and guard care services coherently and with respect for each other. Madam Minister, for what reason did you abolish the working party on medicine, when there was a great deal of knowledge about the field? How do you see the representation in the non-planable care guidance platform? What guarantees do the general practitioners have that their expertise of the sentries translates into permanent representation? I understand that they now have an occasional but not permanent representation. Within what period will you put the transformation on track permanently? In view of the distress calls in the field, this is a very important question. What scientific criteria do you base yourself on in order to scale up in order to achieve efficiency gains? Should we not make a distinction between day and night and take account of rural areas? Do you follow the complaint about structural underfunding, as there is now a lot of support on the ground, not with a pancake blow, but in the general practitioners and with own resources and contributions? Do you agree with the recommendations in their vision paper, which contains a lot of interesting things? There are still blind spots. Do you have a plan to get rid of it? What resources do you intend to use for this purpose? How do you intend to optimally coordinate the reform of emergency services and of general care services so that there really is better cooperation between first-line care and second-line care? What guarantees will you build in so that the well-intentioned experiments around the 1733 plants do not result in glorified telephone exchanges? Without a clear echelon ring and lock system, the trap "freedom and happiness is trump" remains. Do you experience differences between Wallonia, Brussels and Flanders in this dossier? If so, which one? In this respect, I believe I have understood this from general practitioners from the Flemish part of the country. How do you intend to bridge these differences?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u65	Good morning, Madam Minister. I don't want to add oil to the fire, but it feels like these are files that warm up a lot of people. Simply put, I had asked a written question about the opening of on-call medical stations at night on weekdays, and you replied at the time that a working group was looking at the reform of physician availability fees. This had given the idea to doctors in the province of Luxembourg to reconvert the availability fees to pay night guards, but they are outside the law. The resources provided by the reform were to be invested in the opening of week-time medical posts. The group was also expected to develop a vision of the weekly child care benefits performed in a guard station. The work of the working group was expected to be finalized in December 2016. In the face of repeated shortages, particularly in rural areas, what is the current situation with regard to these resources? Madam Minister, could you tell us where we are in the opening of the medical stations on weekdays? I know that you and your services are working on the subject, but as it gets excited all the time, from time to time we need to know how the work is moving forward. Merci.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u66	Colleagues, I have also read the concerns of Watch stations Flanders today. It's being discussed with my services. As a result, among other things, I submitted a note to the National Committee on Doctors' Funds in April. It clarified a number of elements of policy and operationalisation. This note will continue to work constructively. I would like to outline the main points, with particular attention to your concerns. As for the 2017 vision paper, I was very happy to recognise 19 of our points in it after we discussed them with them. In that respect, therefore, I believe that we are on the same page. In order to create an integrated system of non-planable care in our country, I did indeed seek a new policy for the general practitioners' wards. We are now working on a regulatory framework to standardise the operation, availability and accessibility of all sentries. Access to the general practitioner's post will be physically possible or through the uniform call number 1733. Access to the 1733 plants is organised in a similar way, complementary and in synergy with the 112 system. Trained medical dispatchers in the 1733 power stations refer citizens to the most appropriate care provision based on triage and severity of the need for care based on uniform protocols. It concerns both the time and the place. One can be instructed to go straight to emergency or to call a mosquito or ambulance. One can also refer to a general practitioner's post or be instructed to consult the general practitioner the following day. After all, there are many examples where people are somewhat panicked, including the 112. Then good advice must be given through uniform protocols. Together with the intended standardisation of the organisation model of the GP's Watch Service, the funding of the system is also reviewed with a view to increased transparency but also greater standardisation and effectiveness. The financing of this watch-keeping service is separate and separate from the financing of the general practitioner's activities. The latter also no longer falls within the competence of the federal government. In addition to the fees, approximately 25 million euros will be spent on the organisation of GPs in 2018. It is important to me that this additional budget is used as efficiently as possible. To this end, a uniform financing model will be developed, including the use of economies of scale. For example, transport, the moving guard, is a fundamental part of the sentencing operation. The cost of organising that transport is a large part of the total cost of a guard station. By grouping sentries at certain times of the day, the opportunity to organise transport on a larger scale and to achieve efficiency gains arises. A registration of the waiting activity should allow further consideration to be given to the financing of the general practitioner's activity in the context of non-planable care. To this end, it is necessary to contribute constructively to the collection of data necessary to improve policy. In order to ensure the co-ordinated deployment of the reform of the GP Watch Service, an interadministrative cell was established in which the Public Health Office and the RIZIV work together to implement the legal and operational framework of the reform and coordinate operationalisation. This inter-administrative cell is assisted by the regional coordinators, who should ensure the interaction with the field and, on their part, bring in their expertise. The expertise of the sentries is thus transferred to the interadministrative cell by the regional coordinators. A guidance platform with representatives of the field of work is also provided. This platform contains three representatives of the insurance institutions, the family doctor's bank of the National Committee on Doctors-Health Funds and the National Council for Urgent Medical Assistance, respectively. If deemed necessary, ad hoc experts may also be invited on certain items on the agenda. The guidance platform provides the necessary input due to the field of work in the implementation of the legal framework and the elaboration of the operationalisation. There are still blind spots. For each blind spot on the map, the best possible strategy will be to provide a watchdog for the area concerned, through the creation of new initiatives and the reorganisation of existing initiatives. For example, reorganisation can be an extension of the number of municipalities participating or of the territory for which one is responsible. We believe that within four years we will finally be able to cover the entire territory with a new model of general practitioner's watch service. Mr Piedboeuf, with regard to your question on the opening of weekday medical stations, as I have already said, my priority is to carry out the organization of shift stations during the weekend and then to extend it to the other days of the week. But first, it must be possible to organize this throughout the country. Currently, there are regions in which there are no custody positions and areas in which there are several very small ones. The national medical-mutualist agreement 2018-2019 foresees that the Public Health FPS and the National Medical-mutualist Commission will formulate joint proposals in the course of 2018 concerning night shifts. I await the results of these discussions to make a decision on the activity during the night on weekdays.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u67	Madam Minister, you did not answer my question about a number of watch stations experiencing structural underfunding.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u68	I said this is for discussion. I am not going to ask the services for advice or ask them to hold a meeting, but to give an answer already.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u69	But they've been at it for years. Among other things, in Leuven, where I know the situation well, we have always been a pioneer, we have been involved in projects, with the experiments around the 1733 number, and there is a structural deficit of EUR 100 000 on an annual basis; they also explain why this is happening. So it all takes a very long time and the water seems to be on their lips. There are still a number of guards who join us. People do not feel well represented and lack expertise about the guards themselves. It is not because one is a general practitioner at the bank of a certain convention committee that one also knows something about sentencing. I hope you will take this to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u70	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I understand, of course, that we need to plan the entire territory. It is always frustrating for those who have been working in medical posts for the past few years, who have developed them and who see a need, to have to wait, especially since they have shown the economic demonstration that there is a way to save money if they are allowed to allocate the availability fees to night guards. They wait and wait, but they hope they don't have to wait too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u71	Madam Chair, Madam Minister, since the question was tabled, we have had the opportunity to hear from the various dental professions in this committee. We have received some answers to the question from the field. Nevertheless, I wanted to keep my question for two of its dimensions. A link is made between this recognition of oral hygienists, with the aim of providing preventive care alongside dentists, and the fact that dentists are too few to meet the need for care. We have heard representatives of the high schools, whose mission will be to train these oral hygienists. Minister, what skills will be required from practitioners in this new profession? Is the link between the limited number of dentists and the recognition of a new profession of oral hygienist established? Will this affect the number of dentists and the INAMI quotas envisaged for the future? I am quite astonished at the recognition of this profession while another profession has long been seeking recognition. At one point, you had expressed yourself favorably, and they were cited in the "marguerite" presented in September 2016. These are the denturists. I know that negative opinions have been expressed by the Dental Council. However, these care providers have basic training in a recognized profession (dental technicians). They have additional practical, field training. They make removable prostheses, and for this they work in the patient's mouth, in addition to dentists. There is resistance of dentists to the idea that other professionals could intervene in patients' mouths. However, the oral hygienist's assistant will be able to do so. Minister, how do you position yourself on this issue? I'm trying to figure out what makes some recognitions happen and some not. I do not see the objective criteria of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u72	Minister, in the same vein, a royal decree published on 30 March last act the recognition of oral hygienists. The aim, as we have just said, is for this new profession to come to the support of dentists to carry out a whole series of preventive care. According to you, the waiting times for a dentist appointment, and this has been confirmed during the hearings, are currently too long and this new profession will help to solve the problem. Minister, you have spoken on many occasions about training that, in your opinion, was wrongly beginning even before the recognition of the profession. We see in this case that this training started in Flanders several years ago was finally recognised without problems. Why could the delegation of acts be planned for the hygienists when it seems unthinkable for the denturists? What is the status of your reflection in this context? When you talk about waiting times for dentists, don't you think it is necessary to review the quota system for dentists? How do you actually envisage the articulation of work between these hygienists and dentists? What will be the reimbursement of the benefits of the hygienists? Will a specific budget be allocated to them? But most importantly, what will be the reimbursement of these benefits for patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u73	Mrs Gerkens, Mr Frédéric, let me first remind you of the legislative initiatives that have already been taken in 2017 and 2018:- the addition of oral care to the list of paramedical professions by the Royal Decree of 20 February 2017 amending the list of paramedical professions; - the introduction in the Act of 11 August 2017 on various health provisions of the possibility for a dental practitioner to delegate certain acts to a nurse practitioner and to the paramedical professions; - the establishment of the professional title, the criteria for accreditation and the profession of oral hygienist by the Royal Decree of 28 March 2018. The oral hygienist must hold a bachelor's degree corresponding to the criteria set out in the Royal Decree of 28 March 2018 in terms of theory, practice and internships. The following steps are planned this year again: the publication of royal decrees on the initiation of the procedure for the accreditation of oral hygienists; the amendment of the Royal Decree of 18 June 1990 laying down the technical services of the nursing arts; the analysis of a possible reimbursement of the benefits of the oral hygienist, which may be made at a later stage. The profession of oral hygienist is already recognized in several European countries. Any oral hygienist coming from abroad who wishes to practise in Belgium will have to apply to one of the Communities for approval. This is feasible in launching the approval procedure. In order to obtain an approval and a visa, the foreign oral hygienist must also meet the conditions described in the Royal Decree of 28 March 2018. The hygienist works closely with dental practitioners and specialists, medical specialists in stomatology, but also sometimes in oral surgery and maxillofacial surgery. A large part of the benefits are performed on prescription by a doctor or dentist, or are entrusted to an oral hygienist. The oral hygienist may, among other things, be active on the front line in a dental office but also in hospitals, accommodation and care centres, institutions for the elderly, disabled, etc. With regard to denturists, a request for an opinion had been sent to the Federal Council for Paramedical Professions, as well as to the Dental Arts Council of the Public Health FPS. Nevertheless, the Advisory Councils have delivered an opinion which is unfavorable, duly reasoned, to the proposal to create an additional profession for acts relating to removable dental prostheses. I put myself behind that opinion. The scenario developed by the Planning Commission already incorporates as a parameter the arrival of oral hygienists on the Dutch-speaking side since it is only in this Community that this sector is already organised. If the French Community organises an identical sector, it will of course be integrated into future scenarios. I invite you to visit the Public Health FPS website, which includes this opinion, which details the entire methodology used. A next data linkage from 2004 to 2016 will allow for the publication of a "Dentists on the labour market" report, which is scheduled for the end of the year. It will be followed by new scenarios which will help to take account of changes in supply and needs, as well as the setting of quotas for subsequent years. Only on the basis of a precise analysis of up-to-date data will new quotas be developed. The Planning Commission carries out rigorous scientific work, through which quotas can be determined. On this basis, internship places – which have already been increased – will be allocated annually. I cannot anticipate the next opinion of the Planning Commission, which will be given at the end of the updating of the necessary data.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u74	Minister, thank you for your answers. Of course, a positive opinion has been given, recognizing these health professionals. However, I agree with my colleague André Frédéric. Training was undertaken prior to this recognition, and this situation is normal even though training is not extended in the country to other professions which have developed, in particular, in the French-speaking area. In the latter case, it is even felt that it could not be organized until such activities were recognized. It's pretty unpleasant and unfair. As far as denturists are concerned, a negative opinion was given by the Dental Arts Council. When considering the decision-making process, however, it must be admitted that it is unclear, which is evidence of a refusal to consider the matter. Minister, I am asking myself a real question, and it is important to give serious thought to it with dentists and dental technicians in laboratories. Those who, among them, specialize in removable prostheses with a view to becoming denturists benefit from the same training as other dental technicians and offer very low-income people – whose jaws are hardened in the absence of prosthetics – high-quality prosthetics at affordable prices. In my view, if one persists in refusing to recognize this profession, it is in order to preserve the economic benefit of dentists and laboratory dental technicians. I therefore invite you, Madam Minister, to investigate this matter and to force the Dental Council to evolve.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u75	Madam Chair, I thank the minister for her answer and I share the entire reply of my colleague, Muriel Gerkens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic902x.u76	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Galant's 24983 and 24984 were postponed at her request.
