ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u1	I note that there are not enough members of the majority, so we shall begin with the oral questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jiroflée's 26594 was postponed. About Question No 5, by Mr Beazley (Doc. Question No 26651 by Mr Van Mechelen and Questions Nos 26659 and 26660 by Mr Van Biesen Mr Van Peteghem wishes to put his question No. Putting 26670 into a written question or delay, that is not yet certain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u2	Minister, Overpelt is a neighboring municipality of Lommel which will soon cease to exist, because it will merge into Pelt. I have been addressed by quite a few importers and exporters from the region about the closure of the customs office for the registration of vehicles in Overpelt. After all, they were always very satisfied with the operation of that customs post, which was one man who in Overpelt handled the formalities for the companies in a fast and proper manner. How and by which representative body was the decision taken to close the customs office for the registration of vehicles in Overpelt? After the previous closure of the Lommelse and now also the Overpeltse office, a range of services used by many in North Limburg was completely reduced. How do you intend to cope with this in the future and save citizens a considerable journey towards Geel or Bilzen? It has been said that there will be a digital service, but it is not available today. This means that people see an easy service from the government turn into a very difficult and time-consuming service. What exactly is the situation with regard to digital services, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u3	Mr Vanvelthoven, it is true that the office in Overpelt, which was actually an information point, was closed on 1 August last, mainly by officials with a seat in Geel. For further services there has been a system of licences for professionals for many years to deliver the vignette, which means that they no longer have to go to customs every time they want to register. If individuals want to obtain a vignette 705, they can request this at any office; for Overpelt this can be perfect in Hasselt or Bilzen. From December 2018, the entire vignette 705 writing process will be automated and it will no longer be necessary to offer in a customs office. Furthermore, the registration of import licences or the endorsement of export goods certificates may still be carried out by the mobile team of Overpelt, based in the National Administrative Centre (RAC).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u4	Mr President, Minister, it is good that the system is computerized and automated. This is a service that can improve the situation, especially for people who are used to working with it. You state that it will be all right in December. I really do not understand why the government, if it is concerned with the people for whom this service was set up, should reduce this service four to five months earlier. It would have been a good thing if you had closed that customs office in Overpelt after that automated service had been introduced. Your services have decided to do the opposite, and that is regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u5	Mr President, Minister, a few years ago, after quite a bit of work, a system was put in place to allow employers to award their employees a credit which enables the employee to carry out various services at home, provided that the performers who work bill them, which makes them subject to the VAT scheme of 21%, known as the ResQ system. The business model of that organisation is based on an agreement, a kind of ruling, that ResQ has been able to conclude with the RSZ and the tax authorities, whereby the benefit of all kind conferred on its employee by the employer is taxed on a flat-rate basis at EUR 8,54 for the purposes of social security and EUR 3,50 for the tax part. That tax assessment is based on Article 18 (3) of the Royal Decree implementing the Income Tax Code 1992 and the prior decision No. 2013/134. I think the system offers several advantages. The employer can reward his employees for additional efforts in a flexible way. As a result, the employee obviously has more purchasing power. The system can improve the balance between work and family. Moreover, the real economy and the employees employed in it are supported by that system, which also makes it a trick to turn black into a white circuit, thus reducing the state's undeclared work. As I have already said, this business model is today based only on a decision of the Prior Decision Service, which actually leads to a lack of legal certainty, which means that the business model is at its feet. The question arises as to whether we can solve this better by making a small adjustment to Article 18 of the Royal Decree implementing the Income Tax Code, which has already been mentioned. Minister, do you see the benefits of such a solution for society, for the economy and for government revenue in particular? Are you prepared to amend that article so that the system can survive, or are there issues in that connection that we may not know?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u6	Mr President, Mr Van Mechelen, I think there are always things we do not know. A professor once said that the more one knows, the more one realizes what one doesn't know. Other than benefits of all kinds obtained in cash, the actual value of the purchaser is to be taken into account. By royal decree, certain benefits can be estimated at a fixed amount. For example, the free availability of domestic servants, gardeners, full-time workers and the like is estimated at an annual benefit of EUR 5 950. The discussion about flexible remuneration forms fits in with a broader social debate. The government has already taken measures through the tax shift to make work cheaper at the same time and to make work pay more. A decision of the Prior Decisions Service, the ruling committee, is issued within the current legal framework and is subject to review after a period of five years. The discussion on the extension of the current application is ongoing at that Department's Prior Decisions, which, as you know, is an autonomous service. With regard to your specific question as to whether we should make an adjustment to the legal system, that seems to me to be an idea worthy of further discussion. As you know, a regulation of the ruling committee is, of course, also of a legal nature.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u7	Mr President, Minister, you know that the activities of the group in question have ceased in the absence of a decision by the ruling committee. Either there will be a new decision of principle rather quickly, or I dare to insist that the system should be looked at legally.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u8	Mr President, Minister, as everyone knows in this sitting, the National Bank of Belgium owes EUR 24.40 million annually to the public authorities to increase public debt in 1991. As a result of the change in the profit-sharing rules in 2009, this agreement is no longer relevant and there is a need to change the law in order to stop payments definitively. The government has included in its government agreement that it intends to amend the law so that payments can be stopped. On page 90 of the coalition agreement, under 4.2.3, the following is stated: "The compensation payment by the National Bank of Belgium for the securitisation of consolidated war debt is abolished." However, we have found in the annual accounts that payments were made in 2015, 2016 and 2017. When will this law be amended? I also wonder if the payment was already made in 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u9	Mr Van Biesen, I can tell you that a draft law was incorporated into a new law on various financial provisions, which regulates what you are discussing. Work will start very soon, so that it can be completed quickly. I will have to check whether or not payment was made in 2018, I do not have the information available here. I'll give you an answer later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u10	Of course, we still have to vote on the law. So the question is, in fact, whether we still have to pay this year, as that is still the rule at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u11	You asked if they've already paid for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u12	So it has not yet been paid in concrete terms. Of course it will still have to be paid this year. We intend to be able to prevent this in 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u13	Mr President, Minister, by judgment of 12 June 2018, the Council of State completely destroyed the VLABEL position on split purchase and split registration in relation to the application of Article 2.7.1.7 VCF. In the meantime, FLABEL has agreed to this. That VLABEL position was based on the decision of the FPS Finance of 18 July 2013. Minister, do you intend to withdraw the FPS Finance decision of 18 July 2013? If so, what view on the rebuttal of the legal presumption, as provided for in Article 9 of the Walloon and Brussels legislation, will the FPS Finance have taken since the mentioned judgment of the Council of State? Can you clarify how, in future, you will see in concrete terms the rebuttal of that presumption in the case of a split purchase and in the case of a differentiated subscription to the securities or funds account?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u14	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, the decision of the FPS Finance Department of 18 July 2013 to which you refer means that a prior donation by the recipient of the usufruct to the future owner of the bare ownership of the funds necessary to finance his share in the acquisition will not be accepted as counter-proof for the application of Article 9 of the inheritance law. The prior donation shall be considered as confirming the legal presumption of a covered benefit contained in that same Article 9. However, it is accepted that a prior donation may be considered counter-proof where the prior donation has been subject to the levy of the registration fee for donations or where it is shown that the beneficiary of the donation has been free to dispose of the funds, which may be the case, for example, if it is shown that the donation by the recipient of the usufruct was not specifically intended to finance the purchase of the naked ownership in the context of the split purchase. That decision shall not be applied by the FPS Finance by analogy to the differentiated tenders. Since by judgment of 12 June 2018, the Council of State has decided that there is no covered benefit if it is shown that an open donation took place prior to the split purchase, regardless of the registration of that donation in Belgium, the Directory RJ S 9/06-07 will be revised accordingly. In the case of a split purchase, the counter evidence will be provided if the proof of the donation of the funds is submitted to third parties in so far as that donation has a fixed date prior to the purchase of the bare property. In the case of a split tender, the counter-proof shall be provided if proof of a gift of the bare ownership of the securities or of the funds to third parties is submitted, provided that such proof has a fixed date prior to registration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u15	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u16	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Peteghem has converted 26670 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven has already dealt with 26676.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u17	Mr President, Minister, we had many debates during the parliamentary year that ended last July. The corporate tax reform (ISOC), which was voted in the government agreement, provides for new tax measures for companies that do not pay their leaders enough. One of the reform measures is to reduce the nominal corporate tax rate from 25% to 20% of the first hundreds of thousands of euros for SMEs. Ecolo-Groen supported this principle of encouraging SMEs. But you have introduced a whole series of parallel measures into the legislation, which challenge us and which we disagree with. For example, in order to benefit from the reduced rate, the annual remuneration of the manager must be higher than 45 000 euros, whereas the threshold was previously set at 36 000 euros. If this is not the case, the company is given a penalty of 5% (special assessment) which is a differential between the remuneration awarded to the head of the company and the remuneration due. In concrete terms, this generates a separate contribution that could potentially amount to 4,500 euros per company, as early as 2021, in the event of a lack of remuneration. The Union des Classes Moyennes, which represents the French-speaking independents and SMEs in Wallonia and Brussels, was offended. We discussed this and, thanks to the opposition that asked to hear the UCM on this important subject, hearings were held. The UCM responded by asking if this measure was proportionate, since it applies without distinction to all companies. Ecolo-Groen, together with my colleague Georges Gilkinet, has tabled a bill to correct the increase of this threshold to 45,000 euros and to return to the threshold that was previously valid and that corresponds better – as the UCM in the Finance Committee has shown – to the reality of SMEs and self-employed Walloons and Brussels in particular. Minister, as a result of this debate, you and the government are committed to assessing this measure and its impact on the pay and behaviour of SMEs and self-employed people. You have committed to do so in the course of July 2018, but at this stage there is no record of this evaluation. Minister, have you assessed the measure in question, as you have committed yourself to doing? If so, what are your conclusions? If, as the press recently reported, the evaluation has not yet been carried out, when will it take place? Will it be available, sent to parliamentarians, discussed in committee? On the basis of this assessment, which I hope you will carry out, do you intend to review the application of this measure or to keep it as it stands?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u18	Mr President, Minister, the corporate tax reform provides that, in order to benefit from the preferential rate of 20%, at least one head of the company must be awarded a remuneration at least equal to 45 000 euros or the taxable profit, if it is less than 45 000 euros. So you've significantly increased that threshold. If the taxable income exceeds €45,000, a separate contribution, a penalty of 5% will be applied. It is therefore a punitive policy for SMEs. Initially, the government had planned to double this contribution in the years to come, but it seems that this is being abandoned, thanks in particular to the parliamentary work of the opposition. This measure had been severely criticized, in particular, by the Union of the Middle Classes, which had come to show in committee how harmful this could be for small businesses. In the face of this shielding, the government announced an evaluation of the measure. In the meantime, we have tabled texts that delete it and we look forward to emulating it. A few days ago, your firm announced that the outcome of the evaluation was known: even with the sanction, the reform would remain beneficial for businesses. Yet, as little as your statement was made, other members of the government felt that your assessment was not "sufficiently thorough and thorough." In addition, they argued that another study was under way. Anyway, this is a little messy, Mr. Van Biesen. Minister, could you take stock of this issue? Is the second evaluation completed? If so, what conclusion have you drawn? Who in your government believes that the first evaluation is not complete? Is another study under way? If so, by whom is it led?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u19	Mr President, I see that my question has been added, although both previous questions deal with the same subject but differ in substance from mine. My detailed question concerns the specific situation in which the manager, who in principle has to prove the minimum remuneration, is also registered as an employee in the company. Mr Minister, when assessing whether a company fulfils the minimum remuneration requirement in accordance with Article 215 of the WIB 92, as applicable in the context of the reformed corporate tax system, you answered in the affirmative whether the remuneration of a worker who also exercises an unpaid mandate in the same company on the basis of the judgment of the Arbitration Court of 16 February 2005 could also be taken into account. In addition, you confirmed that this principle also applies with regard to the separate assessment of Article 219quinquies of the WIB 92. Consequently, we understand that the separate assessment of Article 219 is not due where an unpaid driver within the same company also receives at least a remuneration of EUR 45 000 as an employee. However, this raises additional questions as to whether the principle also applies to a group of related entities. More specifically, if it is assumed that both the conditions of Article 219 are met, the situation in which a person in a group company exercises an unpaid mandate as manager, on the one hand, and obtains in the same company a remuneration of at least EUR 75 000 as an employee, on the other hand, can it be assumed that, in this situation too, account can be taken of the employees' remuneration awarded in order to meet the minimum remuneration requirement of EUR 75 000? This raises the question of whether the principle also applies to a group of associated entities where the person is a director of one company and employee of the other company. More specifically, if it is assumed that both conditions are met, the situation in which a person in a group company exercises an unpaid mandate as a manager, on the one hand, and in another associated company receives a remuneration of EUR 75 000 as an employee, on the other hand, can it be assumed that, in that situation too, account can be taken of the employees' remuneration awarded in order to meet the minimum remuneration requirement of EUR 75 000?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u20	Mr President, I shall begin by replying to the remarks and questions made by Messrs. Vanden Burre and Laaouej. I will then reply to Mr Van Biesen's specific question. The 5% special contribution provided for in the ISOC reform came into force on January 1, 2018, but will only apply from the 2019 tax year, relating to a taxable period that begins at the earliest on January 1, 2018. Therefore, an initial assessment could only be made once most of the corporate tax returns for this fiscal year have been processed. They will not be so early until later in the second part of 2019. However, what has been reviewed in the meantime is the increase in the special tax rate from 5% to 10% from 2020 and the terminology used in the Law of 25 December 2017 on the minimum management remuneration, which could give rise to confusion. A number of amendments and clarifications were therefore made to the Law of 30 July 2018 on various income tax provisions. For example, the law provides that the individual tax rate of 5% will not be increased to 10% from 1 January 2020, but that the existing 5% will be maintained. In other words, the individual charge may not exceed EUR 2 250. In addition, the terminology was adapted in the sense that a remuneration of less than EUR 45 000 is sufficient, provided that it is at least equal to the taxable income of the company. This is the so-called 50 % rule. The 50% rule should therefore be applied in the same way as before, as explained and initially clearly stated in the explanatory memorandum to the Law of late December 2017, when the minimum remuneration was still EUR 36 000. In other words, only if the taxable income of the company, before deduction of the manager's remuneration, amounts to EUR 90 000 or more, it is necessary to grant at least a manager's remuneration of EUR 45 000. The introduction of other amendments is not expected until an initial assessment of the measure has been made. With regard to the remuneration of workers who are also managers of undertakings, it is true that remuneration as a worker is taken into account in order to verify whether sufficient remuneration has been granted. In other words, an unremunerated manager who, within the same company, receives a remuneration of at least EUR 45,000 as a worker satisfies the condition of remuneration. In this case, the special contribution is not due. The same principle applies in this respect in relation to related companies. An unpaid manager who receives remuneration in the same company as an employee of at least EUR 75 000 also fulfils the remuneration conditions, with the result that the special contribution is obviously not due. However, in the latter example, where a person is an unpaid manager of a company and at the same time receives remuneration as an employee of at least EUR 75 000 from another company belonging to the same group, the conditions of remuneration are not met.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u21	Minister, you recall what was voted in the previous parliamentary year. With respect to the valuation, you say that it can be made when tax returns are filed in the second part of 2019. But you and the government are committed to making this assessment this summer as a result of the debate that took place! In this case, you are telling us that the penalty was set at 10% and you have reduced it to 5%, but for the rest, it will remain as it is. The commitment you've made seems to me to be completely near the reality. So you've made a commitment that you're not able to make, because you don't have all the statements. So you're talking about doing it in the second half of 2019! I have the impression that you have committed yourself, when you cannot do so, which I feel is a pity for the debate that took place and for the requests made, in particular, by representatives of French-speaking SMEs. You have, in fact, recalled the rule in detail, but it does not answer at all the questions that we asked and that were related to reality, the impact that this measure would have on the executives of companies, in particular Francophone companies, since the remuneration of their managers is lower. I'm surprised you committed to something you couldn't deliver. This is quite regrettable and I do not understand how it is possible to move forward with such a way, since you are referring back to the second half of 2019. This is not very serious given the promises made to the players in the sector, which we can only regret.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u22	Mr President, we are still not clear about this. We were promised a fairly rapid assessment, to take into account the realities on the ground, namely more than a number of doubts, people who clearly explain to you that they will be penalized by the new system. I do not find in your leadership any willingness to end the very idea of a penalty. As if losing the reduced rate was not in itself already a penalty! Company managers lose the reduced rate and, in addition, they are charged a 5% contribution!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u23	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u24	I said a penalty of 5% for minimum pay. At some point, you need to realize that SMEs are not your enemies. It's important to remind you that we need them. Sending such negative signals is, in my view, not an adequate way of conducting tax policy. We regret the lack of clarity about the timing of the second assessment and, most importantly, as you did with the removal of the 10% penalty, continue the same move and remove the 5% penalty! To imagine that people who are in SMEs have easy life is a view of the mind. For these people, 5% is 5%. Small SMEs find it difficult to make ends meet. It seems to me that there must be a surge on the part of the government team.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u25	Of course, Mr Minister, I am not very satisfied with your answer. I particularly wanted to denounce the case here in order to highlight the peculiarity of the whole system. You know, as I have said this on several occasions in plenary and in this committee, that I am not in favour of the system of penalisation. I consider the introduction of the Penalisation System to be a lack of respect for our SMEs and managers. We are already very satisfied that the increase from 5% to 10% in 2020 has expired. Nevertheless, I would like to say something fundamental again. The evaluation was a possibility as such. However, it is difficult to evaluate something in the short term. I would like to ask for a clear effort to look at the correct budgetary impact of the 5%. It will cause problems in the field. There are different constructions, modifications, connected and unrelated companies... In many ways, systems will emerge whereby one will try to escape the penalty. You know that carousels arise when you create difficult systems. I predict that our administration will have full hands in controlling only this point. What I have just said describes the fundamentally wrong policy that has been pursued in this country in recent years in the field of taxation. As far as VAT is concerned, one in three checks is only about the form. It is no longer about the content, about whether it is actually deductible. Now the questions are: did it happen in time? Did you use the correct form? A fine of EUR 75 000 per line will then be imposed. If a company can't create enough income today and chooses to keep the capital within its company to make investments later, it can't. When an entrepreneur says he needs the money and therefore he does not pay himself a wage at the beginning, he is punished for that. I insist that the whole penalisation system is an element that will inhibit entrepreneurship. I understand that many individuals have switched to companies. I also understand that you had to do something to stop this. UNIZO now expresses the view that persons doing business should receive the same tax rate as companies. Let's go more down that road. Finally, I would like to ask you once again to consider, within your services, whether the penalty is worth carrying out. I will be the first to be prepared to ask the House to withdraw this measure which has already been introduced. I'd like to take this job on my own. If you think the government will lead to a loss of face by abolishing the rule, I'd be happy to accept that loss of face. I want to do that big gesture to abolish the penalty. I believe that this system will cause far more problems than there will be revenue. There will mostly be a tension field. People will make the wrong decision to get money out of the company. In the past we always had the idea: the more money remains in the company, the greater the guarantee for employees that the manager believes in his company. At the time, the notional interest deduction was also introduced to keep as much capital as possible in the company. Now we are actually taking a whole series of measures to keep as little capital as possible in the company and to provide as many benefits and remuneration as possible. I would ask you to take the time to come forward with a proposal to withdraw this suspension, preferably before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u26	Mr President, this is a regime which is in the regime and which is not very successful! Mr Minister, a few months ago your government was stubborn – there are no other words – to want to implement the cash for scheme because while the opposition, the Council of State, all the social partners, but also a whole range of other groups were trying to make you heard right. Indeed, this regime, as we told you, was doomed to failure, in particular because it does not solve the real mobility problems. It is not because you have asked yourself to implement, at the same time, the mobility budget which, in turn, is a real advantageous alternative for the holders of company cars. The social partners had agreed on this mobility budget. You didn't want to hear anything as usual! At the end of July, we learned that only 23 people had used the cash for car scheme since its implementation. It's called a failure, minister. How do you stand today in relation to this? You're announcing that you're going to redesign the project. In short, you will remove the few anti-abuse tags you had planned in the project. Therefore, it will no longer be necessary to have already benefited from a company car in order to qualify for the cash for car scheme. This can therefore be done even in the absence of this condition. I am telling you clearly, Mr Finance Minister, this will obviously blow up the number of workers eligible for this category of "capable of benefiting from a company car". In other words, you will create an air call at the level of the use of company cars. I think we are facing fiscal optimisation. The risk is clear: through this, we will have many wage increases, even if the workers did not previously benefit from a company car. Those who already had a company car will keep it; those who didn't will want to take advantage of the system. In addition, we are also at risk of de-financing public authorities, including social security. Minister, do you confirm the number of recourses to the cash for car scheme? Do you confirm your ambition to remove anti-abuse measures from the text? Do you not see the risk of structural optimisation mentioned above? What is the government's status in implementing the mobility budget? I note that my colleagues at Ecolo are very attentive to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u27	Mr Laaouej, it is not possible here to deduct the number of persons who have benefited from the cash for scheme because of declarations to the professional discount. Such a declaration shall contain information relating to an employer for a specified period of time, for all its employees. In addition, it is far too early to make a conclusive assessment. Contrary to what is said in the press, the aim is not at all to eliminate anti-abuse measures. The aim of the proposed amendments is to enable workers who do not benefit from a company car, although they may be entitled to do so in accordance with their employer's wage policy, to obtain a mobility allowance in exchange for the use of the car. It is absurd to ask a worker in this situation to pollute and burden traffic with a vehicle without proposing an alternative such as the mobility allowance. Anti-abuse measures, i.e. waiting periods, are maintained in both the employer's and the worker's head. Thus, the employer can only introduce an allowance if it has provided its workers with company cars for at least three years. There are no plans to amend this provision. Thus, an employer who has never offered its employees company cars cannot decide, overnight, to grant them fictitiously and to transform them into a mobility allowance, i.e. cash. In the worker's head, a waiting period is also still applicable. In concrete terms, the worker must have been entitled to a company car with his current employer for at least 12 months over the last three years, and absolutely during the three months directly preceding the application for a mobility allowance. As you can see, the same waiting conditions apply in the mobility allowance scheme, whether it is to replace a company car that is actually used or to replace a right to a company car. There is therefore absolutely no question of eliminating the anti-abuse measures that exist in the regime. Finally, the prohibition on sacrificing salary is slightly modified in order to allow a change from the mobility allowance to the mobility budget and vice versa, without having to go back to the stage of actually having a company car. Thus, once the two schemes are in place, a worker who has a mobility budget, and who considers after a few months that it is better for him to opt for a mobility allowance, will be able to move from one to the other if the employer uses both schemes well. He will be able to do so without first having to give up his mobility budget, then use his company car again for a certain period of time, and finally give it up again for a mobility allowance. I can also tell you that the draft bill concerning the amendment of the mobility allowance and the draft bill establishing a mobility budget are submitted to the Council of State for its opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u28	Minister, as I understand it, the mobility budget on which the social partners have agreed will soon be the subject of a bill. We'll see what happens. Is it not easier to substitute for the current cash for because the mobility budget on which the social partners agreed? I have the impression that we will coexist with two regimes whose purported vocation is the same but which risk at some point coming into contradiction. You are announcing the possibility of moving from the mobility budget to the mobility allowance, so to get a defied budget, disparasified to transform itself into a mobility allowance with the subtlety of possibly going back through a company car. Mobility budget, company car, mobility allowance, I did not grasp all the nuances. In addition, you are planning to ease the system, so that it can be a little more successful, to allow those who would be entitled to a company car according to wage policy, to immediately use the mobility allowance without going through the company car box. That's how I understood what you're thinking. How will we determine who enjoys this right according to wage policy? What does "wage policy" mean? Are there any types of company agreements that stipulate that any person with a specific level of responsibility or status is entitled to a company car? Or is this right rather fixed by individual negotiations, packages according to the importance of the worker, his situation, what he received in his previous undertaking? All these points are not very clear and I am not sure that this measure is sufficient to exceed the 23 famous beneficiaries. I understand that in your opinion it is too early to assess the measure, considering that it will be necessary to wait for the statistics of professional discount. We cannot say that it caused a craze of people who would have rushed overnight and said, "Stop, I'm giving up my car, I'm taking the mobility allowance". Surveys through professional organisations, business federations, would have made it possible to obtain much faster feedback. Cars are not supplied to small businesses. By targeting large banks, large employers, we would have obtained more concrete information. I believe that this information exists, but if it doesn't come out, it may be that the famous 23 information is the current reality. Case to follow! I believe that we have really gone wrong from the beginning on this issue and that the solution proposed by the social partners must immediately be taken to the leap.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u29	Mr President, Minister, ING's Dutch example has shown that there are also recent problems, despite what was said about the Panama Papers during the hearings in the Special Committee. Not only were there many criminal activities in this sphere, there were also criminal offences committed by the bank, because they were not properly reported or because the transactions were not properly monitored. Between 2010 and 2016, the public prosecutor's office conducted an investigation. So the question arises as to what the Belgian level of activity in these sad practices is. Minister, it would be interesting to hear from you whether there are any Belgian footprints for ING in particular, but also in general. What can we learn from Dutch research? It is about one of the largest settlements ever, namely EUR 775 million. So perhaps there is an interesting financial aspect for the Belgian State. It concerns compliance and due diligence obligations under the Anti-money laundering law. I assume there is a shared competence with the Minister of Justice. Is there an active search policy here? Quid the shortcomings and infringements? How can we achieve higher standards and above all respect them? Perhaps there should be better guidance from the dome federation in this respect. There is a lot of anti-money laundering legislation, including recent legislation. However, application has not always been guaranteed in recent years, at least not in our neighbouring countries. Hopefully that will be better in Belgium. So what do we know about any analogue practices in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u30	Mr Deseyn, first of all I would like to point out that questions relating to the repressive or criminal aspects of the anti-money laundering legislation are, of course, the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister of Justice. The National Bank of Belgium is the competent supervisor and is bound by its professional secrecy. It cannot therefore disclose information on the results of its audit work with regard to specific financial institutions. Today, the National Bank still has the full power to monitor at national level whether credit institutions established in Belgium correctly fulfil their anti-money laundering obligations. The situation is, therefore, different from that of prudential supervision, where the supervision of the significant Belgian institutions is exercised by the European Central Bank, within the framework of the European Single Supervisory Mechanism. The supervision by the National Bank of the correct compliance with Belgian anti-money laundering legislation has been thoroughly reformed and strengthened since 2015, in implementation of the recommendations made by the Financial Action Group in 2015. The National Bank has also invested heavily in its communication to the financial institutions under its supervision. Detailed guidelines have recently been published on its website clarifying what it expects from financial institutions to fight effectively against money laundering and terrorist financing. The supervision exercised by the National Bank is preventive and comparable to that exercised by the Netherlands Bank in the Netherlands. On the other hand, ING's friendly settlement with the Public Prosecutor's Office in the Netherlands is part of a repressive investigation into criminal offences committed or committed by ING. When you ask whether there are any other banks in Belgium that have shortcomings in their compliance and due diligence obligations under the Anti-money laundering law, I regret to say that the National Bank is a competent regulator of professional secrecy. However, I can tell you that the infringements of anti-money laundering legislation found by the National Bank in respect of credit institutions are very diverse in nature. Weaknesses are identified in each part of the legislation, such as lack of governance, absence of a culture of compliance, incomplete identification of risks, lack of resources for internal control, incomplete procedures and/or non-implementation of existing procedures. When the National Bank finds shortcomings, it has a whole plejade of measures which it can take to remedy the deficiencies identified. In most cases, taking into account, inter alia, the seriousness of the findings, the National Bank will impose a time limit within which the credit institution concerned must fulfil its obligations. The National Bank may also require the necessary adjustments to be made to the policy structures, administrative organisation and internal controls of the institutions concerned, as well as to the management of risks related to money laundering and terrorist financing. In serious cases, the National Bank can also appoint a special commissioner, demand the replacement of internal managers or board members, impose a penalty payment and that is more. The friendly solutions and penalties imposed have been published on the National Bank's website. The Bank has concluded three friendly settlements since 2013 for infringements of anti-money laundering legislation. In addition, since 2013, the Bank has also imposed three administrative fines. These friendly settlements and administrative fines were imposed in the context of the preventive part of anti-money laundering legislation, not in the context of criminal investigations. Finally, I do not intend to draw up, in consultation with Febelfin, an action plan for achieving a so-called level playing field in the financial sector, as regards the implementation of anti-money laundering legislation. The regulation and supervision exercised by the National Bank and the FSMA, each for the financial institutions under their jurisdiction, is aimed at calculating that level playing field for the entire financial sector, taking into account the risk-oriented approach implemented by both supervisors. Both supervisors closely align their policies at regular intervals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for explaining these interesting aspects of the problem. The Dutch example teaches us that prevention was not enough, no matter how well it is taken care of. You spoke about the weaknesses in the various parts of the legislation, but I quickly understood from the next pass that you were referring to weaknesses in the application of the legislation, with many areas of work being listed. When we hear representatives of the National Bank, therefore, I think it is also important that they should be able to put forward some problematic type scenarios, possibly anonymised. Of course, I will also have to put a follow-up question to the Minister of Justice, because prevention and repression must be coherent in implementation. With what we have heard over the last few months about these banks, we must not rest in them, no matter how beautiful the words and slides were in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u32	Mr Minister, in the debate on the deduction of the costs of a company for the manager's residence, there seems to be a margin in the case law and the doctrine of law because there are several judgments and judgments in this area. The great reference may be the cassation court of June 2015. It states that it is not necessary for the occupational deduction to be made that the costs are inherent in the social activity of the taxable person, of the company, as demonstrated by the social purpose. Several courts of appeal have already held that those costs must still be incurred or borne in order to obtain or retain taxable income. In particular for the provision of immovable property, that requirement shall then be translated into the so-called remuneration theory or proof that the costs have been incurred to compensate for the performance actually performed by the manager. The Court of Appeal of Antwerp is now taking a leading role in this debate and always refuses to deduct as professional costs if it is not demonstrated that these costs have been incurred or borne in order to obtain or retain taxable income. Two recent judgments of 6 March this year prove that case-law once again, since most or almost always there is no evidence that the costs incurred compensate the manager for the performance actually achieved. It is a clear trend in the case law to strongly judge this cost reduction. However, it was not so long ago that in practice it was almost generally assumed that the tax treatment of such a posting started and ended with the charging of a lump-sum benefit of all kinds, and that it also secured the deduction of the costs related to the housing and that the same was true of the benefit being offset by a compensation that might have been booked as a debt in current accounts, but this is now under considerable pressure. Can you clarify, Minister, whether you will use this case-law to have it applied by your administration? Should this possibly be legally anchored? It reminds me a little of the case concerning the valuation of usufruct, in which judgments were also delivered, which was politically followed by amended instructions and, among other things, decisions of the Council of Ministers. I think it is very important that our regulations are very clear. It is not a good thing if courts and courts would go in different directions. I think it is urgent that you, as a minister, take a stand in this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u33	Mr President, Mr Deseyn, business expenses or business expenses must have been incurred or borne in order to obtain or retain taxable income. This means that there must be a demonstrable causal link with the actual professional activity of the company. The fact that a company incurs costs in order to provide its manager with an advantage of all kinds is not sufficient in itself to deduct those costs. Indeed, it is also necessary to provide proof that those costs were incurred as compensation for the manager for the performance actually performed by the manager. In the two judgments of the Antwerp Court of Appeal, to which you refer, the Court did indeed consider that this evidence was not available in the files in question, so that the costs in question were not deductible. In those cases, the case-law therefore supported the administration's view on the deductible costs associated with the provision of an advantage of all kinds, as opposed to the issue of valuation, not of usufruct, but of the taxable advantage of housing. In connection with the latter, the administration was unsuccessful because of a breach of the principle of equality. In the latter case, therefore, there is no alternative but to take action, whereas in the judgments you refer to concerning the deduction of costs, the administration was satisfied. In that context, it should also be stressed that the proof of professional costs is always borne by the taxable person and that on the basis of the factual data of each individual file, it will be assessed whether those costs are tax deductible or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u34	Mr President, Minister, I understand the reference to discrimination, whether in a company or not, and to the housing provided. However, when I spoke about usufruct, I referred to the judgment of 2002, which referred to usufruct. That judgment is a little older than that other case of the home or the benefit of all kinds. However, this is all in the same direction and concerns the direction in which it is chosen. It is in itself gratifying that the case law and the administration want to follow the same line. You have now also pointed out and explained that it is not enough to incur costs of all kinds, if there is no evidence that they are compensation for professional benefits. I do not know whether there should be anything more from the administration, for example an instruction that justice will be fully respected throughout the territory. However, I understand from what you have said that things are well-aligned and that the administration is right in this regard. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u35	I believe that this subject is of interest to the VMS (Participatiemaatschappij Vlaanderen) in the Flemish Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u36	Mr President, I note that you are interested in my questions and I welcome them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u37	I'm from Zaventem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u38	I knew it! Mr President, Minister, for more than a year, one of the major shareholders of Brussels National Airport, Brussels Airport, has wanted to sell its shares. It is the Australian investment fund Macquarie which now holds 36% of the shares. The group's sales process is expected to begin this month. The rest of the shares are 39% owned by a Canadian pension fund "OTTP" and 25% owned by the Belgian federal government. Thus, among the prospective buyers, there is one that would (on condition since I have this information from the press) be a favourite, namely OMERS, which is another Canadian pension fund that already has shares in London airport. And this Canadian group would have already approached Ethias, since the idea would be to create consortia and to have in each of them an actor or in any case a Belgian "touch" in terms of supply. Moreover, in relation to such a scenario, a problem would arise – also reports the press – because Mr Marc Descheemaecker is a director of Ethias and at the same time chairman of the board of directors of Brussels Airport, which could obviously pose a real problem. On the other hand, the investment fund of the Flemish Region PMV would also be interested in the purchase of these 36% and in any case, as I said, logically, a consortium will be formed, since the share of the acquisition of the shares of Macquarie is now estimated at between 1.5 and 2 billion euros, which is obviously a considerable sum. It is also considered that preference would be given to a group of investors whose components are Belgian. Since I am asking a question about Brussels Airport and its shareholding, I would also like to comment on important information that the Ecolo-Groen Group had already raised. In 2016, Le Soir revealed that "the tax construction around the Brussels Airport shareholding was based in Luxembourg." Brussels Airport Investments, which is domiciled in Luxembourg, owns the airport at 55%. Another company, Certi-Baisa, which is established in Belgium, owns 20% but is itself wholly owned by two Luxembourg subsidiaries. The Belgian State, on the other hand, still owns the remaining 25% and so, in our view, it is quite unacceptable, ethically, that the Belgian State is a reference shareholder of a Luxembourg-based company for reasons of tax optimisation! That is the reason, in this case. That's not an industrial reason. I think we can agree on that. So these are my questions! What is the position of the Belgian State and yours as the appropriate minister with regard to this financial contribution concerning the sale of Macquarie's shares at the Brussels National airport, since the Belgian State is an important shareholder? What are your preferred scenarios as a federal government? As such, do you intend to increase your participation in Brussels Airport? What position does the possible entry of the Flemish Region into the airport shareholding via VMS inspire you? I have already asked you about the tax system in Luxembourg, asking you whether you felt it was ethical that this important undertaking for our country, the national airport, and whose shareholding is partly owned by the Belgian State, should be established in the Grand Duchy for tax reasons. Should we not take advantage of the change in ownership to put an end to this very problematic and unethical situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u39	Mr Vanden Burre, I can confirm that the procedure for selling Macquarie shares is about to begin. However, you will easily understand that, given the private nature of this transaction, I will refrain from communicating any information other than those you have been able to read in the press. On the other hand, I can tell you that a buy-back of these shares by the SFPI (Federal Equity and Investment Corporation) is not on the agenda. In view of the amounts paid out in recent transactions relating to the acquisition of the airport, it is not excluded that the future buyer should constitute a group of investors, some of whom are Belgian. With regard to your second question, as I have already indicated to you, Macquarie's participation in the airport dates back to 2004, following a process of seeking partners, and is the subject of an agreement concluded by the State on 10 November 2004. At the time, he remained the owner of BIAC's minority titles. It is still partially today via the SFPI. In addition, Macquarie has invested well through a Luxembourg company that still complies with the laws. The 2007 restructuring was accepted by the State. The participation in BIAC was then provided by the SFPI on June 6, 2007. Nothing important has been changed in the structure on the investor side. It will later evolve, notably through the entry of Ontario Teachers' into capital. As holder of the shares, SFPI did not have the possibility to ask its co-contractor to set up a company in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u40	Minister, with regard to the first question concerning the federal government's strategy for the sale of Macquarie's share at Brussels National Airport, I note that the federal government does not intend to increase its participation. As for the second question concerning the Luxembourg-based tax system, it is an opportunity, depending on the change in ownership and the consortium that will resume, not only to clarify things but above all to change this structure which, financially, is not at all in line with the responsible and ethical behaviour in financial matters of a State such as ours. We can only encourage you to change this. I hear all the historical reasons for this decision, but we need to look at the future. And when we can denounce the behaviour of some who are making totally abusive tax optimisation, whether they are big companies or others, it seems to me that our federal state must be totally exemplary. This is not the case here! We will return to this issue and encourage you to transform this tax structure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u41	Mr President, Minister, this is an interesting Belgian problem because, under certain conditions, organisations and institutions can collect tax-free gifts. I refer to Article 145/33 of the WIB, which lists the different legal entities that can do so. In this way, they can diversify their resources more widely and be less dependent on public subsidies. Let me remind you of the procedure, which is important for the follow-up to the question. If we want to make effective use of this, we must apply for recognition from the Minister of Finance. The acquisition of a licence is subject to specific conditions listed in the law and they are very strict. If all goes well, then one gets a permit to issue tax certificates to his donors. Approval shall be granted for a maximum period of not more than six consecutive calendar years. A new application must then be submitted. The application of socio-cultural adult work organisations includes recognition as a cultural institution. I refer to Articles 145/33, first paragraph of Paragraph 1, 1°, d, of the WIB and Article 63 18/1, § 1, 5° of the Royal Decree. I understand from practice that there are problems here. You and your administration do not always see socio-cultural organizations recognized by the competent Community as 'cultural', thereby depriving them of the opportunity to receive duty-free gifts. In this way, the administration and you, as Minister, have the right to determine what Flemish culture means or not. It is, of course, not obvious; I am thinking in this respect of the tax shelter scheme and so on. Two systems need to be aligned. As far as the recognition of socio-cultural institutions is concerned, they want their gifts to be tax-deductible or fiscally interesting. In order to solve this problem, the legislation requires that an opinion be sought from the competent Community Minister. You could say that the opinion should be clear, which ensures a proper coordination between Flemish cultural recognition and the granting of tax certificates. However, the proper coordination is not taking place. The decision of the Department of Finance sometimes differs from that of the Department of Culture. It could be said that the opinion should not be binding by definition, but if there is no clear basis or justification, it will, of course, become problematic. It is also true that you, as Minister of Finance, can decide whether or not the applicant organisation is a cultural institution, whereas that same organisation in Flanders, for example, has been recognised by the Minister of Culture and fulfils the conditions laid down in Articles 145/33 and 63 18/1, § 1, 3° of the Royal Decree. I understand that we have a cross-border field of tension here. Why aren't recognitions always followed? When the competent Community Minister grants recognition, is it not obvious that he should follow this up at federal level? Is it normal for there to be an opportunity judgment on these organizations? Then, with new screenings, will we not do double work? Or would it be necessary to amend the Royal Decree or the law, in which it can be stated that, if the competent Community Minister for Culture gives a positive opinion, the institution can be recognized to receive tax-free gifts? In the department of Well-being, where the maximum number of cases is noted, this is often the case. I understand, of course, that with such a measure we will never know who is at the helm. We must ensure that, if we were to be widely recognised, we would not be able to get involved in a fiscal financial adventure. However, I cannot imagine, even then, that this will suddenly result in a huge increase in generosity. It is, of course, very difficult for the organisations to recognise one and the other not. Perhaps we can come to a co-decision so that a collective judgement can be reached. In this way, the debt cannot be placed at either Flemish or federal level. The decisions could not be called contradictory either. You feel that, as it is today, it is not working optimally. I therefore ask for your commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u42	Mr President, Mr Deseyn, I will confine myself to general principles. If there are specific dossiers in your considerations, we can, of course, also discuss them. Organisations wishing to be recognised as cultural institutions for the tax relief for gifts must comply with a set of cumulative conditions laid down in the law and the implementing act. Indeed, the conditions under which associations obtain recognition and subsidy for their operation from the competent Community and the cumulative conditions for recognition under the federal tax relief for gifts are different. A recognition by a Community does not automatically mean that the institution is also recognised as an institution in the context of the tax relief for gifts, which is a competence of the federal government and for which the federal government also bears the costs. It is therefore logical that the federal government should have the power to assess whether or not to recognise an institution as part of a federal tax reduction. The Federal Government exercises that discretion without giving an opportunity judgment on a Community competence. So it is not true that my administration or myself would pass an opportunity judgment. If an investigation reveals that all general and specific conditions are not met, the administration shall inform the institution accordingly. This institution will have the opportunity to respond within a certain period of time and to express its views on the facts presented and the position taken. I see no reason to change the existing procedure. My administration strictly adheres to the division of powers, whereas your proposal is in fact opposed to this division of powers. The procedure shall seek a reasoned opinion from the relevant Community Minister to which the applicant institution belongs. It is then up to the Federal Minister of Finance to grant the recognition. It is true that the Community's opinion is not binding. In your question you refer to the procedure applicable to certain other institutions which require a joint decision by the competent Community Minister and the Minister for Finance. If the federal government does not agree to the recognition of such an institution, the result will essentially be the same as in the procedure for cultural institutions. In that case, the institution concerned will not be recognised.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u43	Here the question arises as to what culture is. Can we offer two answers from the government? I'll give you a concrete case. The association Collaboration was a socio-cultural movement recognised by Culture, but is not recognised as a cultural institution by the Minister of Finance. However, the formal criteria have been met with regard to tax certificates and the Minister for Culture has delivered a positive opinion. The Minister's opinion states, among other things, that the association is recognized and subsidised as a socio-cultural movement on the basis of the decree, and that the association fulfils all the conditions of the articles I have already quoted. Despite being a Flemish cultural organisation, she is not eligible according to the federal level. People do not understand under which criteria Finance determines when an organisation is or is not a cultural institution. I'm just handing over the case. I don't want to finish the discussion. It's because you asked for it. It's about recent decisions of 2018. The advice was given by Culture on 10 April 2018. It was requested by your services on 30 March 2018. Nor do I rule on the substance of this specific dossier. Maybe there's a good reason. In the absence of a clear justification, it is embarrassing to be considered a federal non-cultural institution, despite the explicit Flemish recognition. That's not a healthy situation. I would like to ask that this case be looked at again and that a justification be built up with which we can live. Of course, one cannot just give up powers. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u44	Mr Deseyn, you have the floor for your question. 26813 on the retention of VAT.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u45	Mr President, Minister, if you have nothing against it, I would like to turn the question into a written question. After all, it is a very technical question with many aspects and definitions. I'd like to read the answer if I could get it today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u46	Debates of the European Parliament 26813 is thus converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u47	Mr Minister, this is also a very technical tax question, but it is of course a very important political position in the debate that is taking place at the ECOFIN meetings, recently at the meeting of 7 and 8 September, where the European Commission's proposal to impose a temporary turnover tax of 3% on digital services was discussed. France then proposed to include a sunset clause in the proposal in order to obtain that the Commission's proposal would be adopted and would apply until a solution was found at OECD level. France's proposal was reported to have been welcomed by countries such as the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Luxembourg, while those countries were initially reluctant to accept the proposal. Fortunately, an evolution is noticeable there. Italy has also supported the proposal. It would, of course, be very interesting to know what position Belgium took at that meeting. Can you clarify this, Minister, specifically about the Sunset clause's proposal on sales tax on digital services? Does Belgium still disagree with France or has our country made alternative proposals? How do we position ourselves in the discussion? I thought our country was more positive about this, but I do not have any information on the Belgian position on that particular clause. It would therefore be appropriate to take stock of this important dossier at EU and OECD level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u48	Mr Deseyn, there is indeed a growing consensus on the French proposal. After all, we find that the companies involved, the GAFA's Google, Amazon, Facebook and Apple are not directly contributing to the tax revenues that one might expect, overall, so to speak. We therefore support the proposal to make an assessment. The sunset clause is very important to us in this respect, because it would obviously be even more interesting if we could make such an assessment at OECD level than at European level, because the more countries are involved, the less escape or optimisation possibilities there are. We therefore agree with the Austrian Presidency of the Council in the priority approach to this issue, with the emphasis on the sunset clause, but at the same time we are aware that very little progress is currently being made at OECD level in this area. So it is very doubtful when we will see that moment of transition from the sunset clause. I would like to take this opportunity to stress the following. When we talk about these companies, 20 billion pre-tax profits in one quarter, there should be more attention to the monopoly aspect, in the broad sense of the word. I am pleased to note that Mrs Vestager, for example, has a great deal of attention to this. If initiatives were to be taken in this area to achieve more competitive relations in those markets, we would certainly support them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u49	Not a bad word about Mrs Vestager, as long as ARCO is not settled, but quite aside. In substance, the Belgian position is fine, but it is also important for the political support that we present ourselves in it. As a founding member, we are always seen as a piece of the euro engine. I based myself, among other things, on a few messages from Agence Europe, which usually gives a good overview of the meetings. There was talk of Denmark and Luxembourg, but I found nothing about Belgium. I am not criticizing the attitude in this respect, but I noticed it. I was looking, but I did not immediately find the Belgian position on the matter. I think it is very good that we in this group are being assertive and assertive, so that people feel that it is a nice European project and that we can still reach agreements with the Member States. I welcome the basic position.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u50	I would just like to point out that I myself was not present at this ECOFIN meeting, because at that time I stayed in Belgium at the request of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u51	In addition, may I ask who is speaking on behalf of Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u52	They are people of permanent representation, with whom agreements are made in advance. What they tell, of course, they tell in my name. They have indeed briefly, but clearly defended the line I have just indicated to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u53	Maybe that explains why it's been mentioned less in the press. Thanks for the explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u54	I was present yesterday at the meeting of the Interparliamentary Conference, under Rule 13. Mr Moscovici was also present. He said that he had received positive signals for the first time in the last ECOFIN Council on the digital economy and the valuation of the large technological companies that pay almost no taxes, and that solutions could be sought, but that the concrete provisions of that Council also presuppose that a different vision of corporate taxation cannot be approached with traditional corporation tax on profits. He said that other parameters need to be introduced. That meeting was attended by all the countries. The temporary turnover tax of 3% has also been mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u55	Mr President, for all kinds of reasons, practical and legal reasons are being developed in the direction of sales tax, which, as you have pointed out, is difficult to implement in the context of corporation tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u56	That was noted there, Minister. We have to start thinking about corporate and corporate taxes in a different way, in terms of turnover and other parameters. On the basis of profits, the localization of these companies is almost impossible. He indicated that the European Commission was working on this. I don't know to what extent. The German Secretary of State for Finance, of which I do not know the name, has given a whole explanation. However, the issue is also important for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u57	As Mr Daerden was not present and without news, his question No 26819 was deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u58	Mr President, Minister, in March 2018, an information magazine revealed that more than ten billion euros of Libyan funds frozen in 2011, following a UN decision, disappeared from Belgian accounts between the end of 2013 and the end of 2017. Since the release of this information, my group has been asking you regularly about this subject. To my question of July 10, you replied: "No Libyan frozen has disappeared, I am formal on this point." However, the Panel of Experts to report to the United Nations affirms in its letter that it considers that such interest payments and other remuneration are not in accordance with the assets freeze, as indicated on page 50 of the Missive addressed to the President of the Security Council. Mr Minister, still without interfering in the ongoing judicial investigation, could you give us your analysis of the findings of the experts mandated by the UN, who seem to say, contrary to your comments in July, that there was indeed a release of money from Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u59	Mr President, Minister, this is a very serious matter, especially after reading the opinions of the UN rapporteurs, who have been investigating in Belgium. I have asked you several times about the question of these Libyan funds frozen in Belgium and partly frozen, without receiving a satisfactory answer. My last question was indeed about this United Nations fact-finding mission in July. Meanwhile, the UN rapporteurs have submitted their opinions on the file. Point 206 states that "the resolution applies to assets held outside Libya, which had been frozen as at 16 September 2011, including remuneration earned from such assets after 16 September 2011". This point concerns the issue of interests. The United Nations confirms what I have said on several occasions on the case, that the freeze should be understood as capital and interest. Point 207 states that "the Group of Experts considers that making interest and other remuneration available to the Libyan Investment Authority is contrary to the sanctions regime". The activities of Belgium and the bank in question are therefore in contradiction with the international sanctions regime. This situation can lead to misappropriation or misappropriation of funds, in a context of terrorist threat, should we recall? Clearly, the fact that the federal government accepted the release of the interests of the Libyan funds frozen in Belgium was illegal, in contradiction with European rules. This is obviously a very serious situation, given the challenges of financing terrorism following the freeze and the amounts involved. Can you tell me, Minister, whether you have read the opinion of the United Nations experts on the Belgian government's attitude to the freezing and thawing of these Libyan funds? What is your analysis of this opinion of the United Nations experts? How will you react to it? What is the continuation of the procedure initiated by the United Nations? More clearly, who made the decision to thaw these funds? Who has given authority to pay interest on these funds to a recipient? When? With the cover of which minister? I guess a decision can be found. Given the seriousness of the facts, what measures are envisaged, in particular in terms of sanctions, in respect of those who have allegedly misinterpreted or misinterpreted the United Nations regulation? Can you commit yourself to making all the clarity and transparency on this issue? I need the cooperation of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Foreign Affairs to make this clear. I think it is my responsibility as an elected candidate, given the still worrying questions that arise. My second question concerns the banking institution in which Libyan funds were stored and the fulfilment by this banking institution of its information obligations of the CTIF (Cellule de Traitement des Informations Financières) following the thawing of these funds. The survey carried out by the United Nations highlighted the failure of the Belgian State to comply with international commitments and the risk of financing illegal or clearly problematic activities. In its report, the United Nations referred to the risk of embezzlement and misappropriation of funds. Beyond the responsibility of the Belgian authorities, the government, the responsibility of the banking institution concerned is also to be questioned. The Act of 11 January 1993, which applied at that time and which is concerned with the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money-laundering and the financing of terrorism, known as the Anti-Money-Laundering Act, should have been applied in this case. It seems to me that a report should have been made to CTIF by the banking institution concerned. That seems to me the very logic. Can you tell me whether a report to CTIF was made by the banking institution which accepted the payment to a third of the interest of the Libyan funds frozen in Belgium? If so, what action has CTIF taken on this report? If not, what justifies this non-signally by the banking institution concerned? If not, has an investigation or sanction procedure been initiated with respect to the banking institution concerned which would have failed to comply with the obligations laid down by law? These are my specific questions that I hope will lead to specific answers, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u60	Mr Delannois, Mr Gilkinet, I can assure you that the funds of the two LIA and LAFICO entities, frozen on 16 September 2011, have not been thawed. The report of the Libyan panel of experts raises the issue of the interest generated by these accounts. As a reminder, as early as 2011, my administration opted for a release of interests and was reinforced in this position by the practice of the other EU Member States with frozen Libyan funds and by the legal service of the Council of the European Union, at the RELEX Group meeting on 20 October 2011. The same interpretation of the resolutions and European Regulation 2016/44 has been adopted by other European countries, some of which are permanent members of the UN Security Council. Belgium provided the expert panel with a detailed legal analysis of this position. It has scrupulously responded to all the panel's requests and provided the full information requested. You will find the full report of the panel of experts on the United Nations website. Recommendation 8 of the Panel asks the Libyan Sanctions Committee to "provide guidance to Member States on the correct application of the provisions of the resolutions with regard to interest payments and other remuneration earned through frozen assets". This can be found on page 58 of the French version of the report. This demonstrates the need to clarify the correct interpretation to be given to resolutions with regard to the payment or payment of interest. Belgium will immediately comply with the forthcoming more specific guidelines issued by the Sanctions Committee. In addition, Belgium formally requested the European Commission on 22 March 2018 to clarify European Regulation 2016/44, which also deals with UN resolutions on this point. This explicit request to the Commission has remained unanswered until today. As for the destination of the funds, it is known only to banks on whose accounts the funds have been paid, in accordance with the legislation on the fight against money-laundering and the financing of terrorism. Contacts have taken place with the Libyan authorities. Furthermore, I can inform you that the Financial Information Processing Unit (TIFU) has not received any communication from banking institutions based in Belgium, following European Regulation 965/2011 of 28 September 2011 allowing Member States to authorise the release of funds held by entities associated with the Libyan regime. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the transmission by an entity subject to a TIF report is in any event conditional on the existence of a suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing. The statement of suspicion to CTIF must be distinguished from disclosures concerning assets freeze, which must be addressed exclusively to the General Administration of the Treasury.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u61	Minister, I am a little cautious even though I understand your unease because you have not necessarily always been a manoeuvring manoeuvring. You mentioned 2011 and, of course, the role of your predecessor at present in Foreign Affairs could be considered. I firmly believe that this is a state matter. And I weigh my words when I say "state business." This is a related case where, often, one sees the shadow of Prince Laurent. I often have the impression that he has had a disadvantage regime on the part of your government. It's kind of a "shit-ass" crime. But I can assure you that I will continue to interrogate you as long as the light on these files is not clear because I really feel like we're here in the middle of a dirty case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u62	Minister, we have had a number of dialogues on the subject. As I said, the opinion of the United Nations experts confirms what I have explained to you since the beginning and which, for me, is explicit when I read the international rules on freezing. Initial capital and interest must be regarded as frozen funds. It is inexplicable that Belgium, the Federal State, the Government and the General Administration of the Treasury decided, at one point, that an authorization could be given to thaw the interests of these sums, all the more so in the context of the risk of terrorist financing. You did not answer my specific question as to when and by whom the decision to freeze those interests was made. You continue to fall behind discussions at the international level of bodies that have no decision-making power, the RELEX Group. You fall behind the fact that other countries – you told me earlier that it was all the countries – had also agreed to thaw these interests. These are not small amounts because the starting capital is in billions. These are not trivial facts, since we are in the context of international sanctions and the risk of terrorist financing. Following my second question, you tell me that there was no report to CTIF from the banking institution concerned. Who says reporting to the CTIF does not say "evidence of terrorist financing", does not say "precise reporting" but says "concerning" on the part of a financial institution which, in my view, has not complied with legislation, in this case the legislation on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism. This is in addition to our constant questioning of this issue. I regret that you are no more a partner of Parliament as to the ability to see it clearly. Do you or do you not agree to play open book and give us complete information about these worrying facts? My constant feeling is that the answer is negative. You are not a partner of Parliament on this issue and we will have to use other parliamentary tools if you do not agree to play cards on the table in full transparency, especially since these are facts that predate your taking up office. I confirm that I will return to you as many times as necessary, using all the means given to me to obtain transparency on the subject. It is grave that Belgium should be pointed out in this way by an international body such as the United Nations. This should generate more reactions in your leadership and in the government than this constant desire to drown the fish.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic962x.u63	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smaers' 26895 was postponed.
