ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u1	Mr President, Minister, an anonymous testimony appeared in the press on 28 September last concerning the underinvestment by operator ENGIE Electrabel in the Belgian nuclear park. According to the latter, the cracks present in the concrete of the safety bunkers do not date from yesterday. Indeed, concrete degradation in the Tihange 2 and 3 reactors as well as Doel 3 and 4 would result from a much longer process caused by underinvestment in these infrastructures since the takeover of Belgian power plants by the French giant Suez in the mid-1990s. This is partly corroborated by statements made by the AFCN last January. It had confirmed a lack of maintenance on the Doel 3 reactor. With regard to the latter, the anonymous source also states that it would be completely at the end of its life. Minister, do you confirm the mishandling that has been reported? I know that you have already spoken on this subject, but the questions are coming back. Have you instructed the AFCN to conduct an in-depth investigation into the maintenance of the nuclear fleet? How do you assess the likelihood that Doel 3 is no longer operational by mid-November?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u2	Mr President, Mr de Lamotte, I would first like to refer to the detailed explanation given by AFCN in the nuclear safety sub-committee two weeks ago. I assume that in this sub-committee you were able to put all the technical questions to AFCN. As explained in detail, this problem was already known in the past. However, it was only in 2017 that problems of this nature concerned the security function of the Bunkerized building. These are the operator's internal reports on the condition of its facilities. The question of the deadlines for the transmission of these reports was raised two weeks ago in the sub-committee. As indicated by the AFCN, this application will take some time. Research and analysis of the current state of nuclear power plants is currently a priority. With respect to the anonymous testimony of a Tihange employee, I can confirm the following. AFCN is always ready to listen to whistleblowers and investigate their statements. In this case, AFCN was not contacted by the whistleblower. The first analysis of the statements indicates that there is no new information in the statements; the operator and the safety authority have been aware of the problem of concrete degradation for years. The AFCN did not find any violations of nuclear regulations. The AFCN explained the problem in full transparency during the sub-committee and answered questions from the various parliamentarians. I can assure you that for AFCN, nuclear safety will remain the top priority and will always base its decisions on this issue. AFCN and its technical subsidiary Bel V closely monitor the maintenance and aging management of nuclear power plants through their inspection programs and other activities. Monitoring the ageing of nuclear power plants is thus an integral part of the 10-year revisions. It is one of the pillars of the action plans for the long-term operation of reactors. Specific inspection campaigns in this area have already been carried out and a number of improvement actions are under way. Finally, a self-assessment of the programme for the management of the ageing of nuclear power plants and a European peer review of this programme have just been carried out in the framework of the Thematic Peer Review conducted in 2017-2018, pursuant to a European directive. The results concerning the management of the ageing of Belgian nuclear reactors have been positive. As explained to the Sub-Commission, the AFCN will also draw the necessary lessons in order to improve the monitoring of ageing and maintenance both on the part of the operator and for itself. Permanently seeking continuous improvement is inherent in the role of a safety authority. Let me remind you that the Doel 3 reactor is currently in operation after a shutdown of almost nine months in order to make the necessary repairs. The work was therefore carried out and the resistance of the bunkerized building at Doel 3 was demonstrated. There is no indication that it would no longer be operational by mid-November.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answers. The matter had previously been tabled in the nuclear safety sub-committee. I therefore received the answers and attended this committee with Mr Hardeman, who justified a number of points. Your answer is based on that. Thank you for the additional information you have given me, particularly on the third question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u4	Mr.President, Minister, on April 23, 2018, a leak was detected in the nuclear part of the Doel 1 power plant. Water escaped from the primary cooling system in the pipes in direct contact with the reactor. The operator was only able to locate the leak on 26 April. To do this, he had to cold the reactor and make an endoscopy. There were apparently other leaks, but the technicians were informed of the location of the leaks and the cooling current was designed so that the water would never escape. In the present case, this had clearly happened. Willy De Roovere, the former director of AFCN, at the time found the incident to be abnormal. According to him, this was the first time an "uncontrolled" leak occurred in a Belgian reactor. We have already held hearings on this subject in the nuclear safety subcommittee last May, Minister. Nevertheless, experience tells us that history tends to repeat itself as we move on to incidents in nuclear reactors. Minister, are Do Dome Sealing Tests for Reactor Domes Systemically Conducted? If not, why? In the case of a positive response, what technology is used? How often are these tests performed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u5	Mr President, Mr de Lamotte, as regards the sealing of the enclosures of reactor buildings in Belgium, it must be borne in mind that Belgian power stations are particularly well designed in relation to this problem. As recalled during the stress tests, the containment of radioactive products in the event of an accident is ensured at the reactor building by a double concrete enclosure, the inner enclosure being covered with a metal envelope. Only Doel 1 and Doel 2 have a different design. There's a double pregnant. The first enclosure is not made of concrete but consists of a metal sphere. Therefore, the sealing is not ensured by concrete for our power plants, but by metal. There is no leakage related to the age of the concrete. The leakproofness tests are based on U.S. practice, with acceptance criteria derived from Annex J of 10 CFR 50 (the U.S. Federal Code). Comprehensive tests are carried out every ten years with results that meet the criteria without problems. The test is performed dry. In addition, penetration sealing is tested at each revision. The latest tests were done in June 2012 for Doel 3 and June 2015 for Tihange 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u6	Minister, thank you. It comes to my mind that the leakproofness tests of the domes were carried out more frequently in the past. I would therefore like to ask you whether these tests should not be carried out systematically, particularly with regard to domes. I will come back to this issue. Indeed, the dome is the lid and in view of the situation, I am really challenged by your answer, in any case with regard to timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u7	In the absence of any questioners, I shall suspend the sitting for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u8	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 26929 by Mrs Ben Hamou 27085 by Mrs Gabriels. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Flahaux's 27107, 27108, 27115 and 27116 are also converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u9	Deputy Prime Minister, on 10 September, you announced with your colleague in charge of asylum and migration that you would want to create a temporary additional closed centre in order to have places in Steenokkerzeel to lock up migrants in transit. Your goal is to imprison all those intercepted by local and federal police anywhere in the country. In a reaction to a ringe between an unidentified individual and police officers on 17 September, on which all the light still needs to be shed, the spokesman for the refugee aid platform said that the federal police were disembarking migrants in transit to Maximilian Park after intercepting them on the various highway parking lots in Flanders on the way to Great Britain. Mr Minister, my two questions are as follows: according to the press, about 150 undocumented persons who had exhausted all the remedies and who were in the closed centres of Bruges, Merksplas and Londerzeel were asked at the beginning of September to leave their place to migrants in transit. Has your joint project with Mr Franken actually started? Secondly, can you explain to me what is the current route of a person intercepted on a motorway parking lot in Flanders and who appears notoriously as a migrant in transit? Is this person already taken directly to a closed centre? How many people were intercepted and arrested at these car parks in July and August 2018? For the same two months, how many people were transferred directly? How many people were brought, for the same period, to Maximilian Park or its surroundings? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u10	Mrs Gabriels and Mrs Ben Hamou are not present to ask their combined questions. I therefore give the floor to the Minister for his answer to the question put by Mr Hellings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u11	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Hellings, the administrative treatment centre for police transmigrants referred to in your question is operational 7 days a week and 24 hours a day since September 13, 2018. The centre has now been active for just over three weeks. The modus operandi seems to work but it is still a little early for a general evaluation. The route taken by transmigrants is very different. There is a great movement from northern France and Brussels to the motorway parking lot in the country. Many transmigrants hope to find a truck that can take them to the UK. It is because of their absolute conviction to reach the United Kingdom that we designate them as transmigrants. They are not interested in obtaining a legal residence permit in Belgium, even if they are entitled to it. No transmigrants are transferred directly to a closed centre. Between the time of pre-examination and the decision of the Foreign Office, there is a period of administrative police arrest during which the police must take a number of steps to verify the identity of the person. Such acts and detention pending a decision of the Office of Foreigners may, as usual, be carried out by the police services involved but also in the treatment centre organized on the second line by the Federal Police.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u12	Minister, I understand the modus operandi. However, it is known that the number of places in closed centres is quite limited, including the specific part where transmigrants are locked up. We know the problem that your asylum colleague has been facing in recent weeks, with the need for a number of people, including those convicted in court, to be able to make room for transmigrants. This poses a security problem as well as a political problem. Let's not hide it! These migrants are arrested in parking lots. I have quoted Flanders, but I hear that it is a phenomenon that also extends to parking lots far further from the border or the sea that connects us with Great Britain. Today, even Walloon car parks are transhipment and traffic zones. There is no point in arresting these people if it is for them then to return to Maximilian Park, despite a route via the police and eventually the closed centre. There is no point in congesting Brussels, which is already heavily congested, nor in imposing on these migrants this particularly inhuman, stressful and painful journey, although on the whole these people are already extremely deprived.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u13	Mr President, Minister, on the night of 1 to 2 October, a well-known host of the Citizen Refugee Support Platform was beaten by Belgian police officers while waiting for his daughter at Landen station. When this man saw police vans approaching, he began to film peacefully the ongoing arrests, without hindering the action of the police. A police officer then ordered him to stop filming. The man in question presented his identity card spontaneously and stated that he was aware of his rights. Four police officers then molested him on the ground and kicked him in the ribs. Embarked in a van, he saw your colleague, Theo Francken, come here to congratulate the police on his work. Some of the policemen were obviously from Lubbeek. According to press reports, 29 migrants were arrested that night by police officers from the local police areas of Landen/Linter/Léau, Bierbeek/Boutersem/Holsbeek/Lubbeek - commune of Mr. Franken - and Louvain, in collaboration with the Federal Police. Minister, since the federal police are one of the parties involved in these actions, could you explain to me the reasons given for applying such violence to a person who was content with filming an ongoing raid? Let us remember that this person was injured and that he did not, at any time, attempt to prevent the ongoing police actions. Is it forbidden to film a police action, a fortiori when it is aimed at arresting, not dangerous criminals, but foreigners simply staying illegally? What is the legal basis for such a surge of violence against a citizen who is busy filming? Why could the photographer accompanying the Secretary of State, as far as he is concerned, take photographs of the scene? What steps are you planning to take to prevent such an unbearable situation from reoccurring?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u14	Mr President, Minister, we have already discussed this in plenary. On that occasion, you based yourself on a police report that you read to us. Of course, questions remain, as it was mentioned in particular that the person being molested on that day was intoxicated. It is not for me to reveal the elements of a medical report, but it turns out that the person in question was in no way under the influence of alcohol. I am therefore very surprised by the facts contained in the report submitted to you by the police. Indeed, at no time was there any question of taking this gentleman's blood for the purpose of determining his blood alcohol level. A simple blood sample was taken as part of a whole battery of tests when he arrived at the hospital. More generally, as far as the facts of October 1st are concerned, do you have any other elements? I think the report that was put in your hands was not complete. There is no legal prohibition on filming. It is the dissemination of images that is forbidden. Committee P was seized in this case. He was to conduct a monitoring investigation into the control and detention of transmigrants by the police during large-scale administrative arrests. Is this survey included in the report prepared in collaboration with Médecins du Monde? Or have you received another document? If so, can you communicate it to me? All police zone and federal police officials were interviewed by Committee P about the existence of an analysis of the risk management of police violence, the findings of such an analysis and the existence of a management and monitoring programme. In this context, they were also asked for a survey of good practice in this area. The survey identified three areas of work, which were repeatedly highlighted by the respondents. First, the implementation and follow-up of Ministerial Circular GPI 48 on Violence Management Training and Training for Police Operational Framework personnel. Secondly, the role of management, and more specifically, the supervisory function. Thirdly, investment in the means of video surveillance. How do you position yourself against these three lines of work? In its last report, Committee P stated that it remained attentive to future developments announced by the federal police regarding a structured risk analysis specific to police violence. What is the status of this risk analysis at the federal level? Monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of Ministerial Circular GPI 48 is carried out by the Federal Police. What is the status of this evaluation? A tool for recording incidents of violence against and by the police, called MISI (Melding van Incidenten Signalement d'Incidents), has been integrated into the ISLP (Integrated System for the Local Police) application to provide statistical data and implement subsequent preventive measures. Is it operational? You mentioned last year that the deadline was the first quarter of 2018. What information can we get for this year? In particular, I do not know if you have investigated a little more about the case that concerned us on the night of October 1st.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u15	Mrs Matz, Mr Hellings, concerning the various legal possibilities for reacting to a picture taken of a police intervention, it is not prohibited to photograph police officers during an intervention, regardless of the purpose of the intervention, provided that it does not make police intervention impossible to perform. From a criminal point of view, the privacy rules only apply from the moment when the person who processes personal data, for example by taking images of identifiable persons, makes it a non-personal or domestic use, which cannot be established at the time of taking images. The dissemination of images may, in some cases, constitute a criminal offence. The case law, like the Court of Appeal of Ghent, in a recent judgment of 19 September 2018, has set some parameters in this regard. The mere taking of images of a police intervention does not constitute a criminal offence, it cannot give rise to the judicial seizure of the apparatus or to the seizure or destruction of images. The arrest of an author of the taking of images cannot be justified on the basis of the taking of images alone, but must be made necessary by other elements constituting either an actual disturbance to the material public order or a criminal offence. The question asked, namely what would have justified, in the events of 1 October, on the one hand, the administrative arrest and, on the other hand, the use of the deployed force, involves an analysis of the exact circumstances of the police intervention which, at this stage, have not yet been brought to my knowledge and which, moreover, do not fall within my competence but rather within the competence of the local police and its authority. Mrs Matz, with regard to your second question, since Committee P is a monitoring body which is under the control of Parliament, I invite you to contact the President of Parliament, Mr Bracke, who is also the Chairman of the Standing Committees P and R. For your third question, the Investigation Report of Committee P entitled "Police Violences" was well received on 18 April 2017. I have forwarded this report with the findings and recommendations to both the Federal Police and the Standing Committee on Local Police. In this letter, I asked to remind both federal police leaders and local police chiefs of the essential role of ongoing training and training, including compliance with the minimum standards of IPF 48 and the importance of raising awareness and involving the chain of command and, among other things, the middle management. With regard to the use of bodycam, I referred to the draft law amending the Police Function Act, with a view to regulating the use of cameras by the police services, and amending the law of 21 March 2007 regulating the installation and use of surveillance cameras, the law of 30 November 1998 on the organization of the intelligence and security services and the law of 2 October 2017 regulating private and private security. In the meantime, this law was passed in Parliament on 21 March 2018. With regard to the first axis you mentioned, Ms Matz, namely the implementation of Ministerial Circular GPI 48, the police services follow up on the hours of training in violence control in the GALOP application. The figures are collected by the Directorate of Police Information and ICT resources of the Federal Police. For 2017, I found that the data was not encoded correctly everywhere. Various measures have been taken to improve registration and monitoring. With regard to the second axis, the role of the officials of the various police services with regard to the application of the circular is maintained and strengthened. Finally, with regard to the third axis, investment in video surveillance, I note the need to invest in infrastructure in order to achieve the objectives set by the GPI 48. Furthermore, at the federal level, no consultation on bodycams has yet taken place within the Negotiating Committee. For any operation, the employer – the federal police or local police services – carries out an operational risk analysis and well-being at work. This is part of the day-to-day management of police operations. The Federal Police has developed a computer encoding system for the administrative management of logistics and personnel (GALOP) application, which allows to know the number of training sessions that are organized. The tool is accessible to the entire integrated police. The Commissioner General has made its use binding on the federal police. However, police zones are free to use it or not. Following developments in society, as well as in the content of training for police officers, it was decided by the Integrated Police Coordination Committee to revise circular GPI 48 in its content and form. To this end, a working group will be implemented from 9 November 2018. In addition, an evaluation of basic training in violence control education was carried out. This evaluation leads us to the conclusion that this teaching also needs to be modified in order to better respond to the evolution of society. Finally, to answer your last question, in June 2017, three new checkboxes were created in the ISLP registration system which, if properly supplemented by the user, record violence against and by the police, as well as the theft and loss of police equipment. Since 1 August 2017, this registration system provides for the preparation of general statistics published and updated monthly on the SharePoint site dedicated to this issue and accessible to all integrated police services. This tool called MISI (Melding van Incidenten Report from Incidents) also allows police areas to produce their own statistics on violence against and by the police. Since October 2017, the registration system has also provided daily figures to GPI 62 partners (General Inspectorate, DAO, CGWB and DRP, Violence Management) to enable them to carry out their own quantitative and qualitative analyses. The future solution for recording violence by and against the police is an integrated system in iPolice. This need is part of the process of prioritizing and developing the Federal Police Information Directorate and ICT capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u16	Mr Minister, you therefore confirm that it is not prohibited to film an ongoing police action. Clearly – the videos attest – the photographer has in no way prevented the ongoing action. It is obvious that the police have exceeded their rights. The investigation conducted by Committee P will determine each individual's responsibilities. We will wait for the results. One thing is certain: at the time the host was grounded, the police could not know whether or not they were going to broadcast these images. It is therefore clear that this is a disproportionate use of violence and the monopoly that the police have of legitimate violence. After hearing all the answers you have given to Mrs Matz's many questions, I understand that a series of measures will be considered to prevent such an event from happening again. I hope that the police officers who will read our exchanges here realize that the proportionate use of violence must be made when it comes to simply people who are hosting migrants and who are running an ongoing police action.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer on the elements of analysis and evaluation of police violence. In this case, you are telling us that the federal police were also involved in this migrant arrest operation. You told me you were going to rely on the local police because she's the one who... Why, then, did you answer me first on the basis of a report if it is not your responsibility? There's something I don't know about in this case. I think it will be necessary to wait until the report of Committee P on this operation to verify which offence – which I am still looking for – would have been committed to justify an "administrative" arrest, which was never served on the person concerned. I believe that the evidence you provided in plenary session is unfounded. Even if that person had consumed an alcoholic beverage, would that justify such violence? I don't think so! I hope that this person will have the opportunity to defend himself from the suspicions set out here in plenary session, which have shaken him a little more, as a result of the trauma he experienced during the events that took place a few days earlier. We will remain very attentive to this issue and thank you for all the answers you have given me on the evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u18	Mr President, Minister, this is a very important issue. Recently, the judicial police conducted Operation Medusa. These are several actions aimed at dismantling an alleged gang of human traffickers. The prosecutor's press release of 8 October 2018 indicates that the band is rife among transmigrants in Maximilian Park. Their aim is to move them from Belgium to the United Kingdom according to a well-functioning modus operandi. The victims of Sudanese and Eritrean origin would take the train from the Brussels North train station to Rochefort. Then they would continue on foot to Wanlin's car park along the E411. The price of traffic is around 500 to 2,500 euros per victim and the number of victims is around 20 per day. I can only support the government's efforts to relentlessly fight human trafficking and to stop the harm of criminal organizations that want to make profits on the backs of vulnerable people. That said, I fear that the way in which certain police actions are carried out is a fatal blow to the rights and freedoms of the shelterers of the Citizen Platform of Support for Refugees, active since 2014 in the accompaniment of migrants, and more particularly to their right to help people of foreign origin for humanitarian reasons (cf. Article 77, paragraph 2, of the Act of 15 December 1980 on the access, establishment, stay and expulsion of aliens). The press release of 8 October 2018 of the said Platform is very clear about this. According to her, the police actions carried out on 7 October last in the framework of Operation Medusa seem to demonstrate the "clear will to criminalise solidarity" of the hosting companies. They support their position by the very violent manner (forced locks, shock operations conducted at dawn on Sunday morning) in which searches were carried out in the homes of four host families, two of whom were with mothers. Minister, do you confirm that hosting companies were arrested during the police actions of 7 October last as part of Operation Medusa? If so, can you give us the main reasons, while respecting the secrecy of the current investigation? How can we allow our fellow citizens to continue to exercise the right to be united, without being disturbed by the police? What do you intend to do to allow hosting providers to continue their actions without being worried? I am thinking in particular of an awareness-raising campaign. What is the state of play in the discussions with the mayor of the City of Brussels on security issues in the vicinity of Maximilian Park and the Brussels North Railway Station? Minister, we need to understand the question that is being asked. Some wonder whether, because of their hosting, they can be considered as co-authors of human trafficking. Like those people who have a great sense of insecurity, I would like to know what is the line of demarcation? In itself, is hosting a problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u19	Mr President, Mrs Matz, Medusa operations concern police actions carried out within the framework of the administrative police. These actions are therefore not organised by the Federal Judicial Police in Brussels, but by the services of the Federal Police Coordinator in Brussels. For further information on the judicial investigation itself, I must refer you to my colleague, Koen Geens. In general, I have to tell you that the hosts were not just transmigrants, but also people suspected of being involved in human trafficking. I honestly think that it is sometimes difficult for hosting companies to distinguish between a human traffickers and a real transmigrant. It is therefore the presence of suspects of human trafficking that forms the basis of search warrants. I note that in your question, as well as in the communications to the press last week, there is no mention of these traffickers. It is true that hosting companies may be subject to judicial arrest. The reason for the arrest is based only on the fact that the detained hosting companies are suspected of providing logistical support to the traffickers. This is not a general rule, as erroneously stated in the press. It is clear that the role and involvement of a person providing logistical support to a gang of criminals will be the subject of a subsequent investigation to determine its exact role in the offences committed. In addition, I would like to point out that, in addition to criminalizing trafficking in human beings, these organisations active in trafficking in human beings often meet the criteria of a criminal organisation as provided for in the Criminal Code. The Criminal Code also makes it punishable to provide logistical support to a criminal organization. I can only give the following advice. Be careful when you decide to house someone. Is he a transmigrant or a person likely active in human trafficking? Pay attention to the kind of facilities you provide. On the other hand, I can only advise the hosting agencies not to attack verbally or physically the police services responsible for a mission imposed by the judicial or administrative authorities. This could only cause further trouble. I stress that every Belgian citizen is supposed not to ignore the law. In addition, I propose that the lawyers associated with the Citizen Refugee Support Platform consider the above-mentioned articles of law in order to ensure that they are disseminated as widely as possible within their association. I will work with the federal police to assess the need and timeliness of general information to the public. Finally, the consultation with Mayor Close took place constructively. This is evidenced by the excellent collaboration in the Maximilian Park approach between the federal police and the local police, with joint actions organized at very regular intervals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u20	Thank you, Minister. You advise to pay attention to the support they can give; I confess that I do not understand what support you are talking about. Hosting them, giving them food, driving them if they take steps to do... what other logistical support are you talking about? You say they must be careful that they are not traffickers, and the support they give. On what basis does support become a form of complicity?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u21	Hosting a criminal. I'm not talking about transmigrants, I'm talking about human traffickers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u22	That point concerned criminals. It wasn't general.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u23	I made the right difference between hosting transmigrants, which is no problem, and hosting human traffickers. Some people don't know, because these traffickers are mingling with the mass. Hosting, feeding, hiding from the police, is then part of support for criminal organizations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u24	I think most people don't realize they're hosting a trafficker.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u25	People must realize that they are not all transmigrants, and that there are also human traffickers among them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u26	Thank you. It was important to me that you confirm, and you have done so unequivocally, that there is no drift between hosting and being potentially suspicious or complicit in trafficking in human beings. I hope the Platform can benefit from it. It is very important that you have been able to recall this, with all the reservations that you have expressed and that everyone can understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u27	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Goffinet's 27217 has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u28	Minister, on 9 July 2018, you indicated in the follow-up committee "terrorist attacks" that it was necessary to strengthen the power of local authorities in the fight against public order disturbances, common crime and organised crime, in implementation of the government agreement. Among the measures recommended, the Parliament adopted, in its plenary session of 19 July 2018, the bill on the creation of local integral security cells in the area of radicalism, extremism and terrorism. The CSIL is the platform where professionals in social prevention services, administration and social actors organize, at local level, case consultations on radicalisation. The organization of the CSIL falls within the competence of the mayor. In the explanatory memorandum, you stated: "In order to be able to carry out a coherent and comprehensive national security policy, the territory must be covered equally. In other words, each municipality must be covered by a local task force (TFL) and a local integral security cell (CSIL). The website belgium.be provides information on the number of CSILs on 1 September and provides a breakdown. Have the data provided changed since then? Do you consider it necessary for the 589 municipalities in the country to be covered by a CSIL-R? It is clear that the stakes associated with the fight against terrorism and radicalism differ depending on whether you are in a big city or in a town. If so, how are you going to force the 40 Flemish municipalities and 108 Walloon municipalities to establish these cells, knowing that they enjoy communal autonomy, in accordance with the provisions of article 41 of the Constitution? Has a cooperation agreement been concluded with the Communities, since the proper functioning of these units also depends on the participation of representatives of services which fall within the competence of the federated entities? A large town and a small town are different. However, I always take the example of the Belgian terrorist, who has killed several members of the police force. It came from a very small town near my house, called Theux. It is unimaginable that large cities do not have CSIL. But it is sometimes in small communes that people radicalize in order to commit their attack beyond the borders of their own commune.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u29	Mrs Matz, the data has evolved since the beginning of September and I will give you the latest figures, which will soon be published on the website of my department which refers to CSIL. We have 230 CSIL in 339 municipalities in Belgium. This means that 146 municipalities have not yet: 39 in Flanders and 107 in Wallonia. Brussels is entirely covered by CSIL, as is the German-speaking Community, where there are 2 CSILs for all nine municipalities. In Flanders, there are currently 157 CSILs for 246 communes, compared with 54 CSILs for 74 communes in Wallonia. Thus, 39 communes in Flanders and 107 in Wallonia are missing. These figures are indicative and do not take into account the fact that the creation of a CSIL at communal level or the participation of each municipality in a supralocal CSIL was made mandatory by the law of 30 July 2018. With regard to having a CSIL in each Belgian municipality, I endorse the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016. As a reminder, the commission of inquiry insisted "that a CSIL be created in all separate communes or taken on a supra-local basis, even if it is a temporary concept sleeping in the absence of elements of radicalisation or imminent terrorist threat". It continued: "With regard to the current threat and the expected return of the FTF (foreign terror fighters), it is crucial that each municipality be at least prepared for possible problems." I believe that this is a crucial argument. The establishment of a CSIL is part of the prevention component of a local comprehensive security policy, for which each mayor is responsible. The CSILs facilitate the exchange of information and facilitate collaboration between all local actors involved in the problem, whether in the context of early detection, the phenomenon or in the monitoring of the person. It is not my question here to compel, but to convince of the need to set up such a structure – even dormant or supralocal, as indicated by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry – which is a link in the security chain where each level of power has its share of responsibility. In order to facilitate this implementation, the new updated circular on TFLs, dated 22 May 2018, contains as an annex a guide to help local authorities create CSIL-Rs. I would also point out that my administration has set up a team of consultants who travel on request to the municipalities to assist them in the creation of these CSILs. There is therefore, in my opinion, no desire to coerce the communes, but to make all the actors concerned aware of a multi-agency approach. Finally, the cooperation agreement with the federated entities that you refer to in your question is actually being discussed with them. In preparation for the law, I have agreed with all the Communities that my action at the federal level is aimed at motivating the mayor and the police, which is within my competence. Other key competences include youth, sport, social affairs, education, etc. All agreed to collaborate and implement certain actions. This cooperation agreement is under negotiation. This is the last straight line before it is presented to the concertation committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u30	Minister, I see that the will is there, even if it seems to be difficult to compel. As you said, it's important to convince. Tools are put in place. This reassures me because, as I said, even if these phenomena do not always occur in small towns, sometimes they are born in villages or small communes. This collaboration between all the services of a municipality, which could be attentive to phenomena of radicalisation or return, as you mentioned, therefore seems essential to me. Perfect coordination is needed. Thank you, Minister, for your full answer on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u31	Mrs Van Hoof, your question No. 27122 will not be answered by the Minister of the Interior, but by the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u32	Minister, the President of the French-speaking and German-speaking wing of the Royal Federation of Belgian Fire Brigades said last month that the number of attacks on rescue personnel has increased in recent years. Paramedics would be the most affected, as they are fewer in response than firefighters. It indicated an increase in the number of assaults of 20% over the past three years. In its emergency zone Vesdre-Hoëgne & Plateau in the province of Liège alone, 13 attacks have been committed for 2018 and the year is not yet over. Added to this is the increasingly violent nature of the attacks. The presence of weapons in individuals, alcohol or narcotics are factors that pose serious problems and make interventions difficult. Minister, do you confirm the increase in attacks on relief workers? Do you confirm that paramedics are the most affected? Do you have centralized data for the country as a whole? You have put in place a tool to record incidents of violence against and by the police. Would it not be wise to extend this tool to include violence against relief workers? The only means of action for the assaulted personnel is the judicial route, since the personnel involved must file a complaint to see sanctions, if any, applied. What concrete measures do you intend to implement to make interventions more secure or to accompany attacked personnel?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u33	Mrs Matz, with regard to the available data, there is currently a general category of violence against professions of general interest in the Police General National Data Bank (BNG), which includes, in addition to police personnel, doctors, pharmacists and fire department members – firefighters and paramedics. The figures shown cover all categories, without distinction of occupations. It is therefore impossible to have a more precise view of the number of attacks committed against the members of the relief services and, more specifically, against the paramedics. However, it is planned that the BNG database will be adapted so that the recording of acts of violence against professions of general interest can be made more precise in the future. With regard to the measures taken to accompany the attacked personnel, I asked the commanders of the relief zones to encourage their personnel to report incidents to the police and the federal and local police to encourage their personnel to behave conscientiously towards such reports and to cooperate in the accurate recording of the facts. The Commissioner General of the Federal Police has since informed me that he has specifically asked his staff to raise awareness of this phenomenon. In addition, in order to ensure that there will be judicial prosecution and punishment, I have asked the Minister of Justice to provide specific guidelines for personnel in emergency areas, as well as for police personnel, in order to facilitate the continuation of acts of violence. Finally, in order to reduce the risk of aggression, I would like to offer rescuers the tools to teach them how to deal with certain situations, by teaching them preventive and defensive techniques, in cooperation with the police. In this regard, training has recently been validated for its content and will be tested in November before being assessed and generalized to all services.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for this answer which shows that "you have this problem in your eye", if I may allow this somewhat trivial expression. In any case, you are not insensitive to this question. These acts have a propensity to increase in recent years. Thank you for paying attention. This is also part of the arrangements that must be made, knowing the amendment of the Act on intentional acts of violence and the compensation that persons may receive, whether or not in connection with their duties. The recently amended text also applies to members of the relief services. So it was also a good signal to give on this side.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u35	Mr Minister, in response to a topical question on police violence on 4 October last, you started your answer by saying, I quote: "Every time the press questions the police, questions are asked me in this chamber. I have no questions about the efforts made, every day, every night, by the tens of thousands of policemen, to ensure our safety, often at the risk of their lives". I've been in the police service for several years. I wonder about the current malaise in the police services. This is undoubtedly due to the overburdening of police missions and the shortage of staff. I read in the press that there is "a general malaise within the police, a ras-le-bol, fatigue on the part of agents who are subjected to regular violence and who feel that they are not being heard by the authorities". Violence against police officers is cited first of all as a cause of disarray, but they also have "the feeling that their status is being detricted", whether it is the system of disciplinary sanctions or the uncertainty about pensions. Pointy controls were also carried out on Friday, 12 October. These are actions with variable geometry carried out at the common front SLFP-SNPS, then joined by the Christian union. These actions have led to increased opportunity checks on roads. The main actions were in and around Brussels, Limburg, around Turnhout, Antwerp, Ghent and Namur. The aim was to "mark the deal by doing the job properly, taking the time," the trade union organisations said. Since my question was tabled, actions have been taken by the police. The police area of Liège was very small in number since police officers were called to ensure the security of the summit. Several neighbourhood police offices had to close this afternoon due to a lack of staff. This is another action demonstrating the existing malaise. Do you confirm that control actions were carried out on the motorways on 12 October? I know that, yes. How do union meetings with your firm take place? I hear there are many frustrations and questions that remain unanswered. Trade union organizations speak of a shortage of 3,700 police officers. Do you confirm this number? Can you communicate the current shortage of police personnel? Have you received the trade union organizations? How do you react to their concerns about changes in their status, including changes to the pension system, the allowance for sick leave, etc.- Is that what you're saying? What measures have you put in place to stem the problem of police violence? There, I think you have answered in part before. A grunt movement is mounting with legitimate demands. Regarding the violence against the police, I took you to the word when you said that no one ever questioned about it. I do, as I have often done in the past. It is essential to restore confidence. In what way do you think you are acting on all the security missions to be carried out in our country and which, for example, are failing in certain areas, due to actions and mobilisation for European summits?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u36	Mrs Matz, I can confirm that, on 12 October 2018, between 07:00 and 09:00, union control actions were carried out by federal police road police officers. In the Flemish Brabant, in Heverlee's parking lot, they mainly targeted drivers who used it to avoid some of the traffic jams. In Limburg, they took place on the E314, between Halen and Bekkevoort. In Antwerp, a control operation took place near access to the E19 – at my home in Brasschaat – and not on the highway itself. Some delays may have resulted, but great attention has been paid to limiting the nuisances. Similarly, an action was carried out on the E34, up to the Lille exit. In East Flanders, an operation was organized along the E34 motorway, near the Zelzate entrance towards Antwerp. These actions have not led to a line on motorways. Then I will answer your second and fourth questions at the same time. As regards trade union meetings and trade union relations in general, regular contacts are established in a formal and informal manner. The Police Negotiating Committee serves as a formal forum in which representatives always seek common solutions with the various unions. In addition, I remain in contact, during informal meetings, with the presidents of the trade unions. This is proof that I pay particular attention to social dialogue. My goal is to avoid conflicts and promote agreements. In any event, it cannot be ruled out that views may differ or that decisions taken by the authorities in the general interest are not supported by trade unions. Nevertheless, I can assure you that the specificities and professional characteristics of police are always taken into account, because I am well aware that our police officers face enormous risks, day and night, and that they deserve equivalent statutory protection. Let me turn to your third question. It is not obvious to provide figures in response to an oral question. I would like to quote the most recent figures for the current police force, dated 30 June 2018. This is a deficit of 2,271 personnel, all ranks, compared to a theoretical reference of 14,400 for the federal police and 2,128 members compared to a theoretical reference of 37,590 seats for the local police, as you can see in more detail in the appendix to this response. As far as the local police are concerned, each police area is its own employer and thus manages its own data banks at its own level. The local police force indicated is from the Social Secretariat of the Integrated Police. Taking into account the duration of a basic training for inspectors, i.e. a year and a half, I hope that the recruitment of aspirants inspectors in 2016 and 2017, respectively 1600 and 1400 aspiring, will gradually affect the number of police officers, both at the local and federal police levels, and above all, reduce the deficit. The first indications are in this direction. As a result of various projects in the field of human resources management (HRM) - for example the audit of KPMG on the selection process, the pilot project for tailor-made recruitment of the local police in Antwerp, the study on the outsourcing of HRM processes as part of the plan on essential policing tasks, etc. - a new concept of selection has been developed for integrated police. It is currently subject to union bargaining. You could not know, but I would point out that KPMG presented this study and the recommendations here in committee during your absence. This concept has four main objectives: 1. primarily shorten the time frame for the selection process; 2. increase the success rate, not by lowering standards, but by monitoring candidates; 3. At the qualitative level, obtain better candidates as candidates; 4. to obtain a greater diversity of candidates. This new concept provides for several measures, such as the possibility of local recruitment, the personalised link between the police services and the candidate, the creation of a quality unit to ensure the fulfilment of obligations and compliance with the procedure, the digitisation of the process and procedures, the optimisation of the moral aspect of the candidates via a morality commission and standardised criteria, etc. This new concept must optimize recruitment into local and federal police forces. I am committed to presenting the results of the KPMG study and this new concept of selection to Parliament at the beginning of the year. In relation to your fifth question, I can assure you that various measures have been put in place and still need to evolve to stem the problem of police violence and to ensure maximum protection for police personnel. Several measures have been taken in the area of training. With regard to continuing training in the field of the management of violence against police officers, greater attention is now being paid to the Commission and to psychosocial skills. The objective is better anticipation and assessment of situations of violence on the ground. The development of this type of skills is also addressed in basic training, not only in training modules on violence and stress management but also, for example, in modules on police ethics and communication. In collaboration with the prevention advisers of the Directorate of Prevention and Protection at Work, different risk analyses are carried out for both operational missions, the negotiated management of public space and for equipment and infrastructure in order to assess how best to approach a mission, risks, individual or collective equipment, etc. These analyses are the subject of formal advice from prevention advisors and are presented to the negotiating committee. Two tools have been developed to inform staff of violent incidents. The first is the site "Violence against police officers", in order to inform staff victims of assaults of the support offered and the administrative procedures to follow. This site has already been refined in 2018 with the addition of the sections "I was attacked, what to do?", "How to help a collaborator" and "I want to document myself". A section on violence against police officers, based on ISLP statistics, will also be added. This should allow not only for the visualization of the facts recorded in an official report as well as in the BNG, but also for the provision of information on the negative consequences for police officers who are not recorded in an official report. As I explained earlier, this is the MISI project. The second tool is the development of monthly prevention cards, in which lessons are learned from the past in order to avoid recurrence of the same accidents. Finally, the following measures are also applicable: any police officer who is the victim of violence may apply to the Federal Police Stressteam for psychological support. Psychosocial prevention counsellors are also available to police officers. The records of third-party acts are another tool available to police officers who are victims of violence to report the facts. This register is consulted by prevention advisers - psychosocial aspects - and is intended to be used to improve prevention policy in this area. I must also point out that a royal decree is being drawn up to ensure that persons seriously injured and detained for a long period of time receive from the employer the difference between the compensation awarded by the mutual fund and their wages.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u37	Mr Minister, thank you for these answers and for the actions you are putting in place in the various areas we have mentioned, whether recruitment or police violence. However, it appears that these measures are either poorly known by the services or considered insufficient. I do not understand why there is still some kind of malaise; the agents themselves, at least in connection with last Friday's actions, mention that it is linked to violence, to the problem of overwork, excessive fatigue, etc. I therefore wonder whether all the measures taken are actually communicated at the level of the services and the agents themselves. I don't want to upset you, but I said it again and again: there is a recruitment problem. You yourself said that the additional measures taken in 2016 and 2017 will begin to act at this level. Here too, I see the catching-up of a first and second federal budget that has been heavily amputated in terms of security and recruitment. It is therefore true that there has been a form of awareness, but it is a little late. The beneficial effects will take time to manifest themselves, even if your action aims to shorten as much as possible the procedures put in place, not to neglect them but to increase their effectiveness. It should be noted, however, that the staffing problem is somewhat due to the lack of investment in the early years of the federal government. I am still relatively puzzled about being able to catch up, as quickly as we would like, with the number of staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u38	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Clarinval's 27054 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Yüksel's 27104 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 27109 will be converted into a written question. The agenda contains 19 questions from Mr Nollet, one of which is combined with a question from Mr Thiébaut. However, Mr Nollet cannot be here this afternoon because he has to speak in another committee. He can't be in two places at the same time. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 26757, 26761, 26763, 26765, 26766, 26767, 26976, 27100, 27101, 27196, 27197, 27199, 27203, 27204 and the combined questions Nos. 27198, 27200, 27201, 27202 by Mr Nollet and the combined questions No. 27132 by Mr Thiébaut and No 27132 by Mr Thiébaut, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Mr Nollet's 27206 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u39	Mr President, I would like to point out that we are an example of the rapid response and handling of questions. The FANC, which also has other things to do than answer questions, turns into a hundred turns in order to respond correctly to questions that are submitted in the last minute. It is not pleasant if the treatment is postponed each time. On the one hand, the FANC is criticised, on the other hand, the FANC is overloaded with questions to which it has to respond quickly, but which are not dealt with here. I think you should consider whether these questions can be removed from the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic981x.u40	Last time, they couldn't be asked for time. We changed the agenda a little. That's a constant, isn't it? I propose that we mention it in the report.
