ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u1	Madam President, Minister, when bird flu appeared in Belgium in February, traders and individuals were banned from selling birds and poultry for a long time. From the beginning of July, traders are allowed to sell birds and poultry, but not individuals. That seems strange to me, because normally the rules apply to everyone, i.e. to traders as well as to individuals. When will individuals be allowed to sell back poultry and birds?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, bird flu is, of course, a permanent focus. In 2017, our country experienced two contagion waves. The first was in February and March, she was the result of infections in wild birds and hit a hobbyist. In addition, 13 fireplaces were identified from June 2017. They were the result of an infection by a poultry trader, who visited markets that were open to the public. It is true that the sale of poultry and birds by traders and individuals through markets was temporarily banned from the public and other meetings to prevent the spread of avian influenza. However, there has not been a general ban on sales at any time. For example, direct sales from person to person outside markets and meetings were always allowed, both for the trader and for the private person. The Food Agency has systematically relaxed the restrictions on markets and other meetings during the summer months of 2017. As the threat of avian influenza has remained constantly topical, the guide has been to keep professional traders and individuals as separate as possible. Such a separation helps to prevent the avian influenza virus from finding its way to the professional sector from the hobbyist circuit. Therefore, at present only traders are allowed to sell in public poultry markets. In addition, private sellers and traders may not be present together at other meetings with poultry. However, since the majority of the collections are events in which no traders participate or where no poultry is present, this separation does not pose an insurmountable problem for the hobby sector. The sale of poultry and birds is currently permitted during such meetings, which allows hobby growers to make money for their excess animals. In recent weeks, even more infections with highly pathogenic avian influenza have been detected in Europe, namely in the Netherlands, England, Ireland and Denmark. These infections concerned both wild birds and professional businesses and hobby holders. For this reason, the BFSA does not expect the rules on the sale of birds in markets and other meetings to be relaxed quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u4	Mr Minister, sulfoxaflor was approved at European level as an active substance on 27 July 2015 in accordance with the European Regulation. On 18 November 2015, I asked your predecessor, Minister Borsus, about this, because the company producing this substance had made a similar request to the USA, where the administration had granted its authorization by giving the manufacturer two years to prove the safety of the substance for bees and other pollinators, just as the European Union has just done. However, it turns out that an American court overturned this administrative decision. Is not Europe making a mistake in reproducing the American system? Minister Borsus replied in November that he and his services felt that the European provisions had been complied with and that a State had carried out the required assessment, as did the European Food Safety Agency. However, there were still risks to be taken into account with regard to the use of this substance in the open field. The Commission required special vigilance on the part of States in order to be in a position to grant authorisation for use or not. In this case, Belgium is concerned. He told us that, for the time being, no product authorised on Belgian soil contained this substance and that, if there were doubts, he would not allow it. My current question was tabled last December because the Nice Administrative Court suspended the authorisation in France of this substance, considering that there were risks for bees and pollinators. The immediate suspension of this product was requested until the final evaluation of the product. Since the submission of my question, the French Food Safety Agency has had to decide on the latest audits. Minister, what about Belgium? Is there still no authorization to market this type of product both for crops in the open field, for which the minister wanted to be very careful, and for crops in the greenhouse? Have there been applications and authorisations for such substances in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u5	Mrs Gerkens, as you know, I am sensitive to the potential impact of certain products on bees. We have already had the opportunity to discuss this in the context of the neonicotinoid dossier. The assessment, approval and refusal of these active substances, including sulfoxaflor, fall within the competence of the European authorities. As you indicate, sulfoxaflor was approved at European level on 18 August 2015. In particular, it was stipulated at the time of approval that Member States, when assessing the application for authorisation of plant protection products containing these active substances, should pay particular attention to the risk to non-target bees and arthropods. That being said, it is also true that an application for authorisation for a sulfoxaflor product has been submitted in Belgium. The evaluation of this dossier has been distributed among several EU Member States: France, for protected uses and for the physico-chemical plan at the level of analytical methods; Ireland, for the assessment of operator exposure (workers, residents, passers-by), the assessment of consumer exposure, the evaluation of efficacy and selectivity; the Czech Republic, for the environmental response and Poland, for ecotoxicology for outdoor uses. Belgium also participated in this evaluation during the comment period. Following this assessment, the Belgian Committee for the Approval of Pesticides for Agricultural Use examined this application for authorisation, based not only on these assessments but also on the uniform principles of assessment and decision-making established at European level. He also paid particular attention to possible effects on bees and other pollinators. Taking these various elements into account, the Accreditation Committee granted an authorisation on 28 February which restricts the use of this product exclusively to use in greenhouses. This precautionary measure will avoid exposure to this substance from outdoor bees and pollinators.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answers. The reassuring element is that there is not yet a demand for full-field use, which is indeed problematic. I hope that a process of assessment and accompanying this use has been planned to ensure that there are no side effects and migrations of the substance outside the greenhouse or through the soil, since even the coated substances also leave traces in the soil and reappear outside.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u7	Minister, my question is dated April 6. You announced a budget of EUR 15.6 million to support the reintegration of people furthest from employment. This is indeed essential, given the serious social exclusion situations experienced by many beneficiaries of social integration income. At that time, I had questions, but it may be good to repeat your answers. Mr. Minister, does this budget replace, by supplementing it, subsidies not used by CPAS in the fight against poverty and especially against child poverty? Will it therefore be sufficient? Or is it an independent envelope?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u8	Madam President, we have already had this debate and I think we are on the same page. A policy of social activation is essential because it increases social participation and helps to break the isolation of beneficiaries through various activities, which enable them to embark on a path of social and socio-occupational integration. The initiative presented retains the same level of funding as that received by CPAS in 2017 for activation and social participation measures. Therefore, it is absolutely not a question of replacing a reformed measure in 2017 that has made it possible to offer more resources to CPAS. The fight against child poverty remains one of the central priorities of the measure in question. The means are distributed to the CPAS according to a distribution key to target the municipalities where poverty is the most important. These CPAS also have proportionately greater means to develop policies specific to their target group. An additional EUR 15 million is provided for projects to combat child poverty. This is an independent envelope, dedicated only to participation in social activation. The means cannot, of course, be used for other purposes. We make sure that we reach the target and provide it with the desired help. We are therefore faced with a fully positive measure that strengthens the support of people who are furthest from the labour market and who suffer from isolation. This subsidy will support projects that pursue the objective of re-integration of their beneficiaries. It will enable them to gradually return to the world of employment; we are convinced that this is one of the essential paths of reintegration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answer. It was important to me that this be an additional envelope in addition to the existing envelopes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u10	Minister, I had asked Minister Borsus about purchasing groups in September 2016 so that he and the food purchasing group could develop provisions to escape the AFSCA rules on food trade, which were inappropriate for these types of packages and packages that registered consumers were looking for. Since 1 May 2018, a royal decree exempts them from the requirement to register with the AFSCA, provided that they are completely free of commercial dimension. This exemption meets the realities of the field but with one exception: when parcels are placed in a store but do not sell them. This store serves only as a depository and can be a food store or hardware store. This is not provided for in the permitted exemptions but, in your interviews on the subject, you say that you are open to all the tracks that can promote the development of short circuits. Minister, are there any avenues for parcel depots in shops when they do not get any benefit because they do not sell them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u11	Madam President, I think we need to pay attention to the measures to be implemented in order to strengthen the short circuit and to support small producers. That is one of my political priorities. The Royal Decree to which you refer does indeed provide for the clear exemption of collective purchasing groups from the requirement to register at the AFSCA, as provided for in the Royal Decree of 16 January 2006 laying down the terms of authorizations on a triple condition. There must be no commercial activity, no processing of foodstuffs and there must be a clear establishment within the group, which is responsible for product safety, from the time they are delivered by the registered operator to the time they are delivered to consumers. It must therefore be stressed that this is an exemption from certain taxes under certain conditions. There is no question of working outside the rules. The spirit of the Royal Decree of 16 January 2006 was never to impose registration on consumer groups, but on producer groups, and thus on those who supply. Furthermore, there should be no distortion of competition and, above all, strict compliance with health standards should be ensured at all times. It's essential. To this end, the Royal Decree governing collective purchasing groups concerns activities in the private sphere and not in the commercial sphere. As far as health risk is concerned, it is clear that there is a negligible risk, since the proposed products benefit from prior checks with the operators. Furthermore, it will be impossible to use, as was already the case, a store as a place of storage for the parcels. If the store is located outside the premises of an active food chain facility and no commercial activity is associated with the management of the removal point, the store must not be reported to the CBSA. We tried to be flexible. On the other hand, food businesses – restaurants, producers, farmers – which manage a point of removal remain active companies in the food chain, with all the obligations that flow from them. They are responsible for all goods in their commercial premises, even though some of them belong to a group purchasing group. The practice of group purchasing will favour the short circuit. As part of my visits to farms, to small producers, this is known and will be done. Above all, it's going to be a help. Sometimes small producers have their own shop, sometimes they do door-to-door. Here, as it already happens in a number of places, you can have a warehouse where these different products are presented. Private individuals start buying for a group and redistribute farm products. As a result, a window was opened that could further promote the short circuit and small producers. We will continue to promote this measure so that it does not escape the attention of anyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u12	Minister, thank you. If I understand correctly, the only restriction concerns food trade, which is responsible for food security – whether the products are sold or not. It is a matter of consistency with the place where the activity is carried out. That can be justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u13	Madam President, I had originally tabled a question on this Community service set up as part of the individualised social integration project (PIIS), but it was before the Constitutional Court's accession. This morning, I wondered if I was going to ask a question about a service that had just been cancelled or if I was going to adjust my initial question, minister. It is true that there had been many debates and objections to the establishment of this community service in the forms originally envisaged. For example, Dinant's CPAS, a city you know well, had to refuse the solicitations of a BLSO asking to be able to replace workers engaged under Article 60 with social beneficiaries who would have performed the same type of work but, free of charge, under the status of community service. Other similar cases occurred, including a report to our knowledge in the city of Ghent. On 6 April, a new circular on the right to social integration was issued, in which you felt that you should clarify certain elements. For example, it must always be borne in mind that a person performing a community service cannot take on the tasks that are part of a paid occupation; that in organizations where paid staff are supplemented by persons performing a community service, they are "small extras" that would otherwise not be achieved; that the community service cannot be used to replace the trial period, a job test. Mr Minister, all of this shows that there was initially a lack of clarity in terms of the framework of this Community service. It therefore seems difficult to distinguish between volunteerism, community service and paid service. In the meantime, a few days ago, the Constitutional Court overturned the articles of the law that set up this community service of CPAS. I quote: "Although there is no compensation for this, the community service included in an individualized social integration project does not meet the definition of volunteering because it cannot be considered an activity carried out without obligation. Community service therefore has characteristics similar to those of paid work. Activities which may be the subject of a Community service may not be distinguished from activities which may be the subject of paid work." Minister, following this ruling of the Constitutional Court, have you ever sent the CPAS officials a circular or an information letter? If so, what is the content? How do you intend to follow up on this file? What are your intentions in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u14	Minister, there is indeed a judgment of the Constitutional Court. I find it rather hallucinating in some respects how the Court makes a turn there, to get it out anyway. I can't help it. I also regret, in particular, that the statement was made at the initiative of two French-speaking non-profit organisations. There has been a lot to do about the discussion of the community service. The Community service has been tried very hard to politicise and write off as something negative, but in practice I see that the community service should not be negative at all. Again, the community service is just one of the tools that an OCMW has. An OCMW must be able to work according to a client's needs. Until a while ago, there was a kind of empty space there: clients who are too far away from the labour market or can actually no longer be moved towards the labour market were perhaps left a little too much loose in the past, in the sense that social integration is, of course, more than just a road to a regular job, but also about integration into society. That was fully addressed by the community service. In practice, I have seen this evolving very positively on both sides, on both sides of the client and on the side of the OCMW. Again, the community service can be a stepping stone to regular work, but can also serve to restore social contacts. I assume you've already studied the verdict seriously, Minister. What is your reaction to it and what repairs do you intend to make to the RMI law so that this, I believe, good initiative will not be lost? What is the time frame? For many OCMWFs who had already started the community service, it is, of course, a very confusing period at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u15	Mr Minister, my question tends to emphasize that this judgment is one of the elements that we discussed at length with Minister Borsus at the time, namely that the way in which the Community service was integrated into the ISIP did not allow people to have freedom of choice as to the beginning, the stoppage or a change, and that this Community service was taken out of the field of the "volunteer" and placed it in the field of the "put to work", disguised in a certain way, of its beneficiaries. The Constitutional Court has noted this and it is from this that it underlines the violation of the division of powers since the employment of the beneficiaries of the right to social integration is a regional competence. Minister, what follow-up do you intend to give to this ruling of the Constitutional Court? Are you going to send him back to the Ministers of the Regions to make arrangements and keep the same arrangements? Or, do you intend to amend the provisions of the Act so that it becomes acceptable from the point of view of the division of powers and do something else than what is set out in the current Act? In the immediate future, how will you assure CPAS that they will receive prompt instructions to stop signing community services and end existing community services by extracting them from SIIP? How will you ensure that CPAS will properly and promptly inform beneficiaries about their rights and the fact that the community/volunteer services they provide are made entirely without constraint or obligation, with the possibility of their putting an end to them without any sanction on the part of CPAS? How will you ensure that beneficiaries are properly informed about their rights under the Voluntary Act?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u16	Mrs Gerkens, Mr Delizée, Mrs Van Peel, as you mentioned, last Thursday the Constitutional Court delivered an important judgment on the issue of the GPMI and Community services. As regards the generalisation of the GPMI for +25 year-olds, the Constitutional Court has said that it is an instrument that promotes the professional and social integration of beneficiaries. It also added that it is relevant to extend an integration tool used to date for young beneficiaries to new categories of persons. The generalisation of the GPMI has a significant impact and led to the opening of 50 523 files in 2017, compared with 6 852 files in 2015, before the mandatory GPMI entered into force. I also welcome this judgment because no judgement has been handed down against PIIS. Some were waiting for him. When we see the results of the ISIP, we can be pleased that no decision has been taken against ISIP, one of the government's social policies, which, today, is achieving the desired success, as I have indicated at the level of the figures. Of course, we are certain of that, given the information that goes back to us: there are win-win shared objectives between the people who benefit from it and the CPAS. It's an element to be noted. In the event of an appeal, you still wonder whether ISIP could be called into question in relation to this. No, he wasn't questioned. This is essential because it is a major part of our social policies from the federal side, which in this case is spared. In doing so, we are obviously encouraged to continue. On the other hand, it is true that the Court overturned the "Community Service" part of PIIS, without challenging the merits of the measure – I would like to say so – but rather because, in its view, this measure falls within the competence conferred on the Regions by the Sixth State Reform on the accompanying programme aimed at reintegrating the beneficiaries of RIS into the labour market. She noted that, although there is no compensation for this, the Community service included in an individualised social integration project had characteristics closer to those of paid work than voluntary work, as you said, Mr Delizée. Its inclusion in the ISIP therefore falls within the remit of the Regions. A point about this community service, however, in terms of numbers. In 2017, 113 PIIS, with a community service, were concluded in 46 CPAS. The impact of this cancellation is more than limited for CPAS. It is true that very few are targeted. I shall keep the list of the CPAS concerned at the disposal of the committee, if necessary. We are talking about 113 community service units. What are we going to do now? Of course, it is a matter of respecting this judgment. I asked my firm and my administration to execute it. This will very quickly result in the sending of a circular to the CPAS asking them to put an end to the Community service since it no longer relies on any legal basis whatsoever. For information, I will forward this circular to the Regions so that they can take whatever action they wish. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers. I had clarified the scope of the judgment on Community service (Articles 2 to 6 (2) of the Law of 21 July 2016) and nothing else. In the context of the separation of powers, I believe that the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be fully respected. It is a reference body in our country. I do not think this decision is amazing because the debate had been held. The Court simply tells us that the Regions are competent for the employment of persons benefiting from social integration income. There's nothing hallucinating about it. Minister, you have enforced this judgment and sent a circular to the Regions. It's a logical reaction. You say that this community service will be terminated. How long? Could the members of the Commission have the said circular?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u18	Minister, you are talking all the time about the figures for the number of OCMWs that this already applies today, but I do not quite understand how you got those figures. Surely you have no idea the content of the GPMIs. I think that's weird. I am not afraid that this is not a huge figure. After all, this is only one of the things that an OCMW can apply to a tailor-made basis. That's certainly not for every client to succeed in getting away. I also hear you say that you are leaving this for what it is and that you are transferring jurisdiction to the regions. I see two sides to that. As always in this country this will not be a problem in Flanders, the Regions will take this up, but on the other side of the country this may not happen again. Look at the numbers of living wages. For example, 103 000 workers live in Wallonia and Brussels and 32 000 in Flanders. Then it is unfortunate that the account remains federal, because in Flanders the way to activation of people with a living wage is much better used, and with results. This is perhaps something that will be left blue again on the other side of the language border, with all the figures that speak for themselves. It will be for another government to consider whether that account should remain federal. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u19	Minister, I have a bit of the same question as Mr Delizée. Is there a timing for the termination of contracts to take place as quickly as possible? You said you were going to do it quickly. Can you be more specific about this? You will send it to the Regions who will be able to decide what they will do with this provision. However, I would like to go back to one element. Indeed, these provisions were clearly outside the scope of volunteerism. I still do not understand why there has been this stubbornness to consider that someone should be forced to contract this kind of contract in that way, even with an inability to adapt volunteerism during the contract. So we came out of the field of what we said we wanted to do. Here, the punishment comes mainly from this. Minister, can you give us more specific information about the deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u20	On the method and on the facts, the judgment takes effect when it is published in the Belgian Moniteur. That's the first element. This is not the first time a stop cancels a measure. I took the information from my administration. How do we deal with such cases? We'll take a circular. Once established, it is passed on to the CPAS. So that's what's going to be done. As I told you, it will be done quickly. As for Mrs Van Peel's question about the figures for community service, they are low, with 113 cases. These are figures from my administration, which holds them from CPAS. As far as Flanders and Wallonia are concerned, it is not my job. Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels will do what they want. Willy Borsus, Walloon Minister-President, has put this measure in place and will pay attention to it. It is not up to me to say what the Regions will do according to their skills.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u21	Madam President, Minister, in an open letter published on Monday 11 June, the Verbist Group made several allegations against you and the AFSCA's about how the Veviba crisis had been managed. Here is a non-exhaustive list: the company announces that after the February 28 searches, the licence could have been withdrawn immediately. However, this was only done on 7 March, allowing Veviba to continue its activities fully. It would also appear, at the end of the three months of investigations, that the goods contained in the company's freezing facility would meet all quality standards. In spite of this, you would have refused to release the goods even to donate them to food banks. When I put my question, 70 tons of fresh meat would have been destroyed. It would also appear that, for many years, the AFSCA inspectors in Bastogne mistakenly admitted that the workers in the slaughter line cut the tails of the slaughtered animals, just before the carcass was sawn and not after as provided for in the rules. With regard to the meat from the bleeding wounds that has been marketed in certain preparations, the company claims that it is absolutely not an unfit meat for human consumption but a neck meat that would not be problematic. I have heard a lot of difficulty in imagining that the Verbist group is exempt from any responsibility in the scandal that has affected it. Nevertheless, the elements presented above have asked me somewhat, and I would like to have some clarifications on this. Minister, for what reason did Veviba recover her approvals on May 31st? Why were the licences withdrawn only on 7 March when the fraud measure had been found more than a week earlier? Is it established that the goods blocked in freezing facilities meet the quality standards required to be considered fit for consumption? If so, why not release her? If this is not the case, why continue to store it to destroy it as and when? Is it true that the AFSCA inspectors in Bastogne had long endorsed the practice of cutting tails before the sawing of the carcass? If so, what explains this malfunction? Moreover, what is the basis of the rule that tails should be cut off after? Has it been established that no Category 3 waste has been found in preparations for human consumption?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u22	Minister, I was also questioned by the fact that, on June 12, 2018, a few days after having regained its approval for Veviba on May 31, 2018, it was learned that the Verbist group was renouncing to sell its facilities of the public limited company Veviba and AMB, while there was a whole process around the possible recovery or potential approval, around a co-management of the company with the Walloon government, with the SoGePa, with the search for new managers, with a preference expressed by all the breeders and political actors for a cooperative of producers-elevators. Minister, all of this is not up to you and is not part of your AFSCA jurisdiction, but it is part of the context. Today, however, the group refuses to sell and accuses Minister Ducrame of abuse of power and unwillingness to harm the group. The judicial investigation is under way to clarify the various facts and responsibilities. Between the filing of my question and today, we realize that there is an investigation and accusation of malfunctions within the AFSCA or some of the AFSCA actors regarding the inspections and how things went on for Veviba. Minister, what will be the possible impact of this change in the Verbist Group on the future of Veviba, on the accreditation, on the intervention of the AFSCA within this company? What about the allegations of abuse of authority vis-à-vis the minister about the group?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u23	Madam President, I would like to say things as I think they are. During the Veviba scandal and in relation to the findings on how the Verbist group, Mr de Lamotte and Mrs Gerkens, worked, you were among the most virulent. You were right to express the substance of your thoughts in this regard. Today, you relay the verbatim of the Verbist group and make it the defenders. This is not consistent. I wanted to tell you. As a result, I'm going back to the facts of the case because you didn't. So I remind you of what this is all about. I said: the Veviba scandal is not a glamour and the Verbist group is not Snow White. What are we talking about? Category 3 waste unfit for human consumption and used in products intended for the preparation of prepared Americans. This is the first element, and I hope you will remember it because that is what is being discussed in the Veviba scandal. What is the Veviba scandal relative to? This is a slaughterhouse run by the Verbist group, from which you relayed a number of arguments. What exactly is the issue? Dates of freezing after the date of search, sometimes for several months, i.e. future dates hung on pallets and carcasses; products expired and frozen since 2001. When we talk about the Veviba scandal and the management of the Verbist group, that is what we are talking about! What is it about, too? Products without labelling, and therefore without traceability possible. I would also like to remind you of that. I know you're working on your files. I am not going to insult you to dwell on the frauds and non-compliances that exist in this case. Of course, there are consequences. That's why we're doing audits. That is why we have indicated that there would be one before and one after Veviba. That is why, together with my colleague Minister of Justice, I am working to improve the working relationship between AFSCA and justice. It is also for this reason that the government has put in place additional controls, with a budget of 2 million euros in 2018. This will also benefit the AFSCA in terms of human resources, as additional monitors and inspectors will be hired. As these 2 million euros are recurring in 2019, it will also allow us to hire additional inspectors and inspectors. I think you, like me, are democrats, and both of you are committed to the rule of law. That is probably also why you are asking this question. I think you are also, like me, attentive to the freedom to undertake. This is part of the fundamental rights. I want to take your question from this angle. As an authority, I do not have to interfere in the process of selling a company, nor in the relations between SoGePa and Verbiest. It's not my job. As a reminder, the approval of Veviba's cutting shop had been withdrawn as soon as the investigating judge had formally agreed to use the findings made during the administrative search on 6 March. I imagine that we all agree that, after the findings have been made, approval should be withdrawn. That's what's been done. I don't think it's an abuse of power. On 30 May 2018, a conditional licence was issued by the AFSCA to the company, then under the mandate of SoGePa. This decision complies with the relevant procedures. It was adopted pursuant to Article 6(1) of the Royal Decree of 16 January 2006 laying down the procedures for approvals, authorisations and prior registrations issued by the AFSCA. This conditional approval could only be granted if the infrastructure and equipment requirements were met. The granting of an authorisation is always preceded by an inspection visit which checks whether the establishment meets the legal requirements. If this is the case, it may be decided to issue a conditional licence. During a second inspection, within three to six months, the conditions of operation, including the self-control system, are checked for compliance. In slaughterhouses and cutting plants, this second visit is still carried out by the AFSCA. In this case, as permitted by law, such approval is conditional. It has been extended, confirmed under several strict conditions, given the situation and suspicion of fraud and the findings previously established by the AFSCA. The aim was to take all the necessary steps and the proposal for conditional approval was implemented. As you say, Mr. de Lamotte, the situation has changed in recent weeks. The new company, Qualibeef, has just replaced Veviba and keeps the former interim SoGePa managers at its head. Given the recent assessments, I naturally asked AFSCA for a legal analysis of the situation. It was communicated to me and comes to the conclusion that the withdrawal of SoGePa does not change the status of the conditional approval of 30 May, which is why it is still in place. It is clear, of course, that the arrangements for the withdrawal and restitution of authorisation are in accordance with the legal standards in force. I come to the question of the fact that Veviba's meat could not be given to food banks and CPAS. I must tell you here that some of the leaders of associations and food banks have indicated that they do not want this meat, which I agree with. Indeed, I believe that food security should not be at two speeds: one for the traditional consumer and another for the poor. Before we released this meat, we had to control it and I can tell you that we were right to do it. Indeed, it turned out that not all pallets were compliant. We were therefore right not to endorse a number of proposals that were made at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u24	Minister, you must not be moved by the fact that parliamentarians are asking questions for clarification. You gave us some about the approval, but you didn't say anything about whether the goods stuck in the freezing facilities meet the required quality standards. You talked about the freezing date, but I don't know if there's anything else. With respect to the practice of tail cuts prior to the sawing of the carcass, it had been previously endorsed by AFSCA inspectors. There are still a number of outstanding issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u25	Minister, I think you are completely wrong when you interpret my question as a defense of Verbist. On the contrary! If I put the question this way, it is good to say that serious things have happened and that the withdrawal of approval was justified. Conditions of co-management and reorganization of the company have been put in place. Management had to be changed to otherwise manage the facilities before granting conditional approval. Once the approval was returned, a few days later, Verbist changed his strategy. He renames his group, keeps management and continues on his own at Veviba. I cannot help but make the connection between serious suspicions against one or more AFSCA inspectors in the way they intervened at Verbist and that former AFSCA official who went to Verbist and Veviba to help them regain their accreditation. In view of what is happening now, I invite you, Minister, to further increase vigilance. I find Mr Verbist's remarks to be abusive when he says that he has been the victim of abuse of authority and will to harm the group when taking measures to withdraw authorisation, audit, etc. His comments also seem to me to justify the fact that there is even more attention to this group which is difficult to trust. You asked, Minister, for a legal study to determine whether the withdrawal of SoGePa could have an influence on whether it was approved again. Unfortunately no, but I think that was one of the conditions to be issued to this group afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u26	Mrs Gerkens, you are pointing out a few elements that fall within the judicial aspect on which I do not want to comment. Justice will have to do its work to the end, as it always does. Thank you for your final comment. What probably upset some is that, when the approval was issued, it was subject to conditions, as is the case in other cases. From the point of view of AFSCA and ours, it was essential to do so. I do not want to comment on the SoGePa aspect because it is outside the federal sphere. Finally, Mr de Lamotte, to be complete and subject to confirmation – as these are quite fresh elements – with regard to the meat from the KF in Bastogne, I would remind you that the compliance rate was only 30%. You will remember that 130 out of 200 pallets were non-compliant. In this context, we have received information that justice is beginning an approach to consider releasing third-party meat within this KF. Indeed, there is Veviba meat, but also meat belonging to third parties, both being stored in this KF. In this context, and given the rate of non-compliance that resulted in the limits, I asked the PSAB to provide me with the procedure it intends to implement to monitor traceability. If this meat, even that of third parties, is to be released, it must be released after an extremely strict traceability check.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u27	Minister, thank you for these additional answers. This has obviously been an important issue for public health. I had not heard it otherwise, and my questions went in that direction. I noted in your reply that you referred to the two current audits. We will necessarily come back to this issue at the beginning of the year, as well as to the way in which things have actually happened and have been dealt with according to the procedures put in place. This will have a significant impact on the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u28	It is indeed planned that at the start of the year, depending on the agendas we agree on in September and October, a moment will be devoted to the results of these audits.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u29	Madam President, Minister, this question was put a while ago. During the plenary session of 15 March last, and a few times before in this committee, we warned you, in the sense that we think you are on the wrong track with the amendment of the law of 2 April 1965 on the charge of aid granted by the OMCWs. Meanwhile, several medical organizations have expressed their concern about your design. The National Council of the Order of Doctors has expressed a number of reservations and recommendations. For his part, Domus Medica claims that the abuse is proven on the basis of questionable figures from a single physician's report, whose sample of the analysis was not clear. Furthermore, according to Domus Medica, a contained definition of emergency aid will result in more inhuman situations and will be more expensive for the State. It goes without saying that the sooner a medical problem is dealt with, the less expensive it is to deal with it. Domus Medica fears that the aid currently provided to the most vulnerable will gradually be reduced to nothing. The medical organizations are very clear against this reform. They could still earn that the checks are only carried out on the basis of clear criteria for the opening of the law, so that a professional possibility is added for the doctors whose reimbursement of the care is refused. Meanwhile, some actors in the field seem to have been heard by you. They too have great reservations about your design. They regret that, despite their conversation with you, they still do not have a look at the content of the various royal decrees. In short, neither the organizations nor we have any idea at this time whether the concerns of doctors and the concerns of organisations in the field will be taken into account. Mr Minister, I come to my questions. What concerns of the sector have you heard? Will you take that into account? For what reasons is the content of the royal decrees still not clear? Are you prepared to add to your draft reform amendments corresponding to the recommendations of the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u30	Madam President, Minister, following the change concerning urgent medical assistance, you indicated in plenary that you would organise a wide-ranging consultation with stakeholders on the Royal Decree on the implementation of the legislation. This broad consultation is, of course, necessary in order to develop a well-managed and balanced royal decision. We are told that you have already organized a lot of consultations in your cabinet. In the meantime, we also hear from the sector concerned reactions about the consultation, because not everyone would be heard. That's not always possible either, but the question is who did you finally hear? The consultation process would not be really participatory at the present time either. The organisations are received, but no texts are yet being distributed, so there is only a limited exchange of content. What is the status of the royal decree? What stage is the Royal Decree at and when will it eventually be published? Which organizations did you invite and receive for the consultation on the royal decree? Can you give me an overview? How'd the calls go? What concerns are expressed in particular? How will you respond to this? What scope do you give the organisations to make substantive changes?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u31	Madam President, Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Van Hoof, I confirm that the consultations to which I had committed myself are under way in the context of the urgent medical aid dossier. To ensure a broad consultation, I did not wish to impose a calendar. However, you should know that the work is progressing. For example, we have had the opportunity to meet the National Council of the Order of Doctors, as well as Doctors of the World, Myria, Medimigrant, Domus Medica and the Cartel GBO. This round of consultations is far from negative. The speakers are very constructive. The meetings will make it possible, on the one hand, to explain the scope of the reform. The démarche was welcomed by the various actors and makes it possible to clarify this. On the other hand, this has allowed us to hear the same actors about the follow-up to the draft. That feeds the reflection on the royal decisions that will follow. We must not forget that I wish the future royal decisions to be balanced. They must also respond to the questions on the ground, but within the framework of the law adopted. For example, the commitment not to touch on the principle of urgent medical care, nor to change the definition of urgent medical care or not to draw up a fixed list of diseases which are or are not subject to emergency medical care. The consultations are still under way and I have undertaken to include the needs of the sector in the CSFs. So there is nothing secret about the decisions, Mrs Jiroflée, you can be sure of that. They're still being worked out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u32	Minister, the least I can say is that your answer does not help us much. I can only hear you explain that you are listening to the sector and that the consultation is still ongoing. The fact that there is no timing attached to a subject that we discussed for the last time in mid-March is very peculiar. I'd like to ask you again for a timing. When will the content of the CBAs be clear? When do they show up? For the rest, my criticisms, expressed in February-March, remain. Because of the great openness that the draft law shows and by leaving so much to the CBAs, and then waiting for at least four months to complete the CBAs, you do not immediately reassure me about its content or about the direction in which it is going.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u33	We did not find out much more, Minister. I have two more concerns. On the one hand, you say that the talks have been constructive and positive. On the other hand, we hear from the organisations that they are concerned and insecure because they do not know which direction it is heading. It is worrying that you do not feel that they have a number of concerns. I suggest you explicitly ask at the next meeting what the problems are; why is A said here and elsewhere B? In fact, we need to speed up the process because there is unrest and uncertainty in the sector, as well as in the doctor's office and on the operating table. This may be to the detriment of the patient who does not allow a particular treatment to be carried out for fear of not being reimbursed in a particular hospital or in a doctor. It is good for peace and security in the sector to explain how the controls will be carried out and what the sanctions will be. It would be good to reply to this before the recess, of course in consultation with the sector. I do feel that you are genuine when you say that you will, but I ask you to land quickly in order to bring peace and security to the sector. The right to health is still a human right. We have to stick to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u34	Madam President, Mrs Van Hoof, Mrs Jiroflée, I am not here to please you. You say you haven't learned much, and I'm telling you that I'm consulting and that everyone is being consulted. That's what I asked you to do. You didn't tell me you should be happy. Mrs Van Hoof, let me tell you that you're making a mistake. They're all received. The idea is to draft an order that responds to concerns. This is my job and this is what I have committed myself to. I will therefore continue to do so without a timetable, even if you do not like it. The aim is to draft, on the basis of consultations, a decision as balanced as possible. And if I don't please you, ladies!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u35	Minister, you must not please us, you must remove the unrest in the sector. It is your job to provide certainty to the sector, on the one hand, to the doctors so that they can do their work in peace and quiet, on the other hand, to the organisations that deal with patients. You claim that you want to come up with a balanced result, and I would like to believe that, but having it dragged on for so long does not point in the direction of certainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u36	Minister, I do feel a certain determination, both in the discussions and in the plenary. I hope that with this determination we will come to a good conclusion from the Central Bank. I understand that this will take some time, but I hope that there will be some clarity by September or October.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u37	Minister, the rules on rent guarantee were reformed in 2007. The starting point at that time was the search for wider access to housing and a better balance between the rights of the owner and those of the tenant. In any event, the assistance provided by the OCMW should be seen as a free loan from the OCMW to the client. The OMCW also receives a limited federal allowance for this purpose. According to the general rule, the OMCW of the habitual residence is competent. As the rent guarantee is usually necessary after a move, the OCMW of the municipality of departure is authorised. If the request for assistance is made only after the move, the OCMW of the new residence is competent. In itself, I still think that this is a very correct principle, but it sometimes has unpleasant consequences, for example when the OCMW of the previous residence provides a rent guarantee for a property in the new municipality of the client that is declared uninhabitable, unfit or unhealthy. When it comes to a building in its own municipality, the OCMW usually knows which properties are considered and otherwise it will of course contact the municipal services, but if it is a building in another municipality, that is something else. I have the following questions, Minister. Giving a rent guarantee for an uninhabitable or unsuitable property can lead to inhumane situations, while giving a rent guarantee must ensure that the OCMW can contribute to a dignified existence. How do you look at that problem yourself? Which slope do you think you can follow to meet that? Would it be possible, for example, to ask for a certificate of conformity in addition to the option of renting? Municipalities already have the possibility to require that certificate, but do you see the need for an adaptation of RMI legislation there? How do you view the creation of a national database containing a list of uninhabitable, unfit and unhealthy premises? Before you say that this is a competence of the Communities, it is the Community that has sent the demand to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u38	Mrs van Peel, I agree with you that every person has the right to social services with the aim of enabling everyone to live a life that meets human dignity. The right to decent housing is indeed a fundamental right and access to housing is therefore a fundamental minimum right that must be guaranteed for each person. As part of their general mission to assist persons and families, the OMCWs can assist individuals in finding a home and can help them in the form of a rent guarantee for a home that they would otherwise not be able to obtain, given their limited financial resources. If the OCMW considers that the property does not meet the quality standards, the OCMW should assist the person in his search for a suitable home. In the context of this social service mission of the OCMW, the Federal State provides a limited flat-rate financial incentive to encourage OCMWs to provide such assistance. It is crucial for disadvantaged people to obtain a home. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the rules on the rental of residential property, including the guarantee of rent and the rules on housing, fall within the competence of the Regions. Your proposals certainly deserve to be examined, but the initiative should be taken at regional level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u39	Madam President, Minister, I said in my question that you should speak to the Regions, because they are sending me to you. In this country, it is no longer obvious to know where the competence lies. This is just another example of this. Thank you for your answer. I understand what you are saying, but if in practice we have someone who moves from Kapellen to Antwerp, for example, it is not possible for my social assistants to visit that place. In these situations, a national database of uninhabitable and unsuitable buildings could provide added value. We will have this ping-ponged again to the regions, but I fear that this question will come back here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u40	Mr Minister, the Flemish, Walloon and Brussels Ministers for Animal Welfare have clearly expressed their support for a ban on distant transport of livestock and for the restriction of all movements of live animals to a maximum of eight hours. Our Flemish minister Ben Weyts has even signed 1 million European signatures to the European Commission together with Eurogroup for Animals and GAIA. The three regional ministers also wrote a letter to the Commission. Some other Member States took the same initiative. Unfortunately, I have to note that apparently from the federal level, more specifically by yourself, permits are still being issued for long-distance cattle transports, for example to Turkey. I find that really incomprehensible and inconsistent with what I have just said. I am therefore quite right to be called upon to do so. People do not understand that Belgium, on the one hand, through its three regional ministers, takes a very clear position against distant livestock transports and, on the other hand, lets the federal level simply commit and continues to grant permits. From the figures I have been able to put my hands on, I would say that the number of permits you issue is even increasing. Mr Minister, why do you continue to issue permits for long cattle transports to Turkey, among others? Are you aware that there is a great deal of animal suffering associated with such long-distance transports? If you acknowledge that, I would like to know why you are continuing to issue such permits. Can you confirm the figures I have been given and show that the number of permits you issue for long livestock transport is increasing every year? Is it possible to give us figures on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u41	Mrs Van Camp, I am once again being interviewed on an issue that is no longer a federal competence, but a competence of the Regions. I assumed you knew that. The employees of the federal government, together with the veterinarians, are responsible for the inspection, control and certification of the animal health component. In the context of the cooperation agreement with the Regions and in response to their request, it was agreed in illo temporal terms that transport conditions would be checked during loading by the same staff, following the instructions of the regional authorities' directives. This applies equally to the Flemish Region as to the other Regions. To date, the regional ministers responsible for this matter have not given any instructions to the staff concerned, showing that the will exists or, a fortiori, that the decision was taken to stop these shipments. I invite you to better inform Minister Ben Weyts. Only the Walloon Region published in 2018 a letter describing that the conditions for the delivery of certificates to Turkey were tightened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u42	So you're saying that the permits are issued by the state ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u43	You question me and you charge me. You should probably be delighted: the responsibility lies with the Flemish Region. Address the good minister, please! You should still know the results of the sixth reform of the State!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u44	But who's gonna deliver the permits?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u45	Minister, you're referring to the regional minister. Mrs Van Camp, you may disagree, but you can check, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u46	To be precise, if there is no directive taken at regional level, I cannot therefore extend a directive that does not exist. If at the N-VA you want a minister of your party at Flemish level to take directives, you know what door to knock on, Mrs Van Camp. I don't get it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u47	The last word is for Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u48	You say you do deliver the permits. But you're not answering my question as to why you're still delivering it. That is ultimately your authority, and a decision that you can make yourself. Moreover, I have asked for figures on the number of permits to be issued and whether there is an increase, as I have seen. I didn't get an answer to that either.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u49	Minister, an article on the BFSA's investments in two software packages of EUR 600 000 was published on the Apache news site. The BFSA has replicated that the content of the article is absolutely incorrect. For example, the agency claimed that it was a lot more packages and that nearly EUR 600 000 was paid for the purchase of a complete package, the two packages of which would only be part. I read that with surprise. The BFSA's response does not correspond to your answers to my written questions Nos 695, 787 and 1108. In it, you literally mention that the purchase of the software package, including the other ones, has cost about 1.1 million. The two programmes which are apparently not being used, Groupwise and Vibe, cost up to EUR 600 000. Did I misunderstand your answers to the written questions? Or is the BFSA wrong in its response? It can only be one of the two. What do you think of the failed ICT project? Is that also evaluated in the audit you ordered?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u50	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, the article referred to a cost of EUR 600 000, whereas for the BFSA it referred to EUR 547 000, the amount mentioned in the answer to parliamentary question No. 1108. As noted above, the final purchase concerned a package of software, many of which are used to date. This shows its daily usefulness for the Agency. Most of the programmes are indeed essential for the BFSA. The purchase of the package was the most interesting way to have access to the different programs. The BFSA points out that, even though the package contains a software program for mailing, the agency chose to proceed with the product that was already used. The second programme that Apache is talking about is still being used, but will in future be replaced by a programme that will be used across the entire federal administration. For the rest, I refer to the answer to Parliament's questions Nos 695, 787 and 1108, which you have already asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u51	Minister, there is still no answer to one question. Is the efficient handling of ICT at the BFSA a subject of the audit?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u52	As part of the functioning of the AFSCA, Ms. Dedry, we have seen wide. The aim will be to learn from the various AFSCA computer programs. This will not necessarily be the priority; I do not hide it from you. However, today we can hardly produce an audit of a machine as important as the AFSCA without dealing with the computer issue. I'm not in charge of these audits, as you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u53	Ms Leen Dierick turned her question No 26555 into a written question. For point 11, only Mrs Dedry was present, but she had tabled her question No 26588 at the last minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u54	Madam President, since my colleague has tabled the question too late and Mrs Dierick has left, I will turn my question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u55	Mrs Dedry, for the sake of fairness, I propose that you send me an e-mail reply together with the other Members who have tabled their questions. You will receive it this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u56	Minister, please also send it to the committee secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u57	All right, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic946x.u58	I'm asking you because email exchanges don't always take place as planned. Mrs Ine Somers and Mrs Rita Gantois, authors of attached questions No 24657, No 24727 and No 26463, did not join us. Usually, when an author asks me nothing, his question becomes moot. However, given the importance of the subject, I propose to turn it into written questions. In this way, the Minister's responses will be made public.
