ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u1	Mr Minister, at the request of my group, among other things, you now come every year to present a report setting out the impact of the bilateral and multilateral trade agreements. As I have already indicated, I believe that this is an important exercise, but this report lacks concrete indicators to assess the evolution of the agreements. Mr Minister, would it be possible to include in your annual report on the follow-up to trade agreements concrete instruments of measures of certain criteria, in particular in the field of human rights, labour and the environment, in order to be able to really assess the so-called positive developments of these? Can these criteria be incorporated into the road map adopted by Colombia and Peru for the follow-up to the EU-Colombia/Peru agreements? Similarly, would it also be possible to present us with a strategic evaluation of the Association Agreement with Israel?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u2	Mrs Grovonius, the implementation of the commitments on trade and sustainable development of the European Union's trade agreements is already the subject of several monitoring and reporting processes at European level. Since their provisional implementation, the three new generation FTAs, namely, with South Korea, Colombia, Peru and now Ecuador and Central America, have been the subject of an annual implementation report, including trade and sustainable development commitments. In November the Commission published a horizontal implementation report on EU trade agreements which also contains a Trade and Sustainable Development (TSD) component, i.e. trade and sustainable development. Such a report will now be published annually. Finally, these chapters establish specific mechanisms and monitoring bodies whose role is precisely to monitor the implementation of trade and sustainable development commitments, by closely involving civil society in our partner countries through the establishment of advisory and dialogue groups. Within the Council, Belgium has been in favour of strengthening these chapters and, in particular, of their effective implementation. I was on the initiative last May of a letter to Commissioner Malmström co-signed by four of my colleagues. In addition to regular reporting on the implementation of the commitments made, we also called for closer cooperation with the relevant multilateral organisations and for maximum coherence between the Union's trade policy and other areas of action of the Union. There has already been a strengthening of synergies in practice, such as formal approaches in Guatemala and El Salvador under the chapter on trade and sustainable development of the Association Agreement with Central America, to highlight the problems identified by the Committee, the implementation of ILO standards and the need to resolve them. I also welcome the debate opened by the Commission in July on the consolidation of the trade and sustainable development chapters, as requested by Belgium. I am continuing my commitment to this debate to strengthen coherence and multilateral governance. I will return to this in my next progress report on trade treaties. We will of course use the instruments made available to us by the European Union to analyse the situation there. The road maps you mention are the unilateral responses of Peru and Colombia to the 2012 European Parliament resolution on the free trade agreement between the European Union and these two countries and, now, Ecuador. I had received delegation from the various levels of Belgian power to sign the extension of the Treaty to the latter country. Given the unilateral nature of the roadmap, it seems difficult to ask the European Union to review it: it is a document from our partners. The European Union and Israel are bound by an Association Agreement signed in 1995 and entered into force in 2000. An action plan was drawn up in 2005 within the framework of the European Neighbourhood Policy. It aims at the gradual integration of Israel into European policies and programmes. Ten sub-committees are responsible for setting priorities and monitoring the programmes of the various sectors. It is therefore primarily up to the European Union, rather than the Member States, to decide on the state of play of the bilateral relationship with Israel, the framework of which is the Association Agreement. We come back regularly with my European counterparts during our meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answers. I imagine that we will have the opportunity to discuss this at the time of your next annual report. I would like to stress this association agreement with Israel. You say that it is at European level that monitoring should be organised. However, as you usually do with other agreements, you provide us with information. As such, I would like you to add a chapter in the annual report so that we can discuss it in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van der Maelen's 22802 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u5	The situation in Catalonia is well known to us, Minister. According to the Spanish Supreme Court, Mr Puidgemont must be physically present in Parliament in order to be sworn in as Catalan Prime Minister. Because of the arrest warrant, that is not possible at the moment and Mr Puidgemont is not returning either. Two weeks ago, Mr Puidgemont advocated the formation of two Catalan governments: one in Barcelona and one in parallel in Brussels. He wants to lead the second one himself, after an inauguration from Brussels on 18 February. A few days later, an inquiry would take place in the Catalan Parliament in Barcelona in which the Party of Puidgemont would designate an alternate for the government in Barcelona. There was a very quick reaction from Spain. The Minister for Foreign Affairs immediately indicated that, should it become a reality, the long-term relationship between Spain and Belgium could be damaged. Minister, how do you estimate the situation today? What would be the impact on the bilateral relationship between Spain and Belgium in the short term, but also in the long term? Have you had contact with the Spanish and Catalan authorities about Mr Puidgemont's proposal? Have you mentioned this situation within the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u6	Minister, the situation has changed a little. A lot has happened again. At present, Mr Puigdemont is no longer the candidate for Catalan President, but Jordi Sànchez, which does not mean that Carles Puigdemont is staying in Brussels and intends to set up a kind of opposition, a kind of representation in exile in Brussels. What interests me in particular throughout this story is that the Catalans and the elected in Catalonia will organise themselves as they wish, but that there will still be reactions from Spain. For example, Minister Alfonso Dastis said that Belgium would not cooperate in illegal situations. That is why I would like to ask you in what way and through what official channels has the Spanish Government contacted our government? It is no longer the case, of course, because Puidgemont will not be a foreign president in Belgium, but how do you view it in principle? What do you think of that? Do you think this should be possible in Europe? Meanwhile, the international call for the release of the current candidate Jordi Sànchez, who has been in prison for almost five months, is getting louder and louder. That is excessive and disproportionate. Will you refer to the imprisonment of the two Jordiians and of the former Catalan government members in your contacts?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u7	Colleagues, on Wednesday 17 January 2018, the Catalan Parliament elected a president and an office. That happened in the end without much difficulty and without violating the rules. On the basis of an indication by Judge Llarena of the Spanish Supreme Court, the three members of parliament in prison, including ERC President Junqueras, were able to delegate their vote. The five Members of Parliament who fled to Brussels had not asked for their vote to be transferred. The vote therefore took place with the participation of 130 out of 135 elected representatives. It took two rounds of votes to elect the President by a simple majority. The ERC candidate Roger Torrent was elected President of Parliament. No president of the Generalitat, the government, has yet been elected. The Belgian position regarding developments in Catalonia was very clearly communicated in the Chamber on 8 November 2017. I repeat them as far as the current situation is concerned. Firstly, as in the case of questions relating to Catalonia, I repeat that I do not speak out about decisions taken by the judiciary, not in Belgium or in other European countries. It is an internal Spanish problem that must be resolved through legality and respect for the Spanish constitution within the rules of the rule of law. All violence must be avoided and condemned. The solution lies in a dialogue between the Spaniards. I have said on several occasions that this must be done not only between Barcelona and Madrid, but also with the other Spanish provinces. The Belgian Government follows a very clear line of action with the separation of powers and absolute respect for the judiciary. Secondly, within that framework, our diplomacy is working daily in a solid way to maintain high-level dialogue with our Spanish partner. I've had a lot of contact with my colleague Alfonso Dastis. I have read comments in the press, but we have not heard any comments in the official contacts. For example, I have not seen any pressure from Spain on Belgium in this regard. We'll follow up on the situation. We are in favour of the free movement of goods, services and capital, as well as of persons. The presence of some person in Belgium is therefore not a problem for us. Thirdly, as indicated, this is an internal Spanish problem. We are therefore trying to support a real dialogue between the partners in Spain. I hope that dialogue will actually take place. We are following the situation, but without interference from Belgium in the judicial process or in the political process in the Catalan Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u8	Minister, I am glad to hear you repeat the principles of the government once again, which, of course, we fully support. If the scenario that Mr Puigdemont had written for himself were to become a reality and a government or a second government would be set up in Belgium, then of course we will find ourselves in a different situation. Our starting points may be a little more difficult to apply. I believe that our starting point should be that there can be no government in exile for Catalonia on our territory. In my opinion, anyone who calls for independence is doing the best for his own people, and if someone wants to run a country, he is doing the best in his own country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u9	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I support your call for dialogue. I believe, however, that this call should be addressed above all to the Spanish Government, which has little interest in it. Mr Van Peteghem, if you think that events in Catalonia and Spain are an internal matter, you should keep your statements consistently to yourself. However, this is no longer a purely Spanish or Catalan matter. Whoever denies this denies the light of the sun. This has become a European matter. This is also a matter that I believe any legitimate democrat who supports the democratic values of Europe cannot accept that democratically elected Members of Parliament should be imprisoned in prison and that presidents of civil movements should, for example, be thrown into prison, for example, the David Fund of Catalonia. I won't shut up about this. I'll keep raising this. Minister, I understand your position. It is important that you make that call for dialogue. This is the only way out of the deadlock. We're saying this. The Catalans say this. You're saying this. Europe says so. Unfortunately, Spain does not say this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u10	Minister, on 3 January the Ethiopian Government surprised the world by announcing the release of all political prisoners, pardoning opposition activists and politicians and closing the notorious Maekelawi prison. The Government of Ethiopia presents this as an outstretched hand to the opposition and whether or not armed resistance groups in the country to build a national consensus. Critics see above all an attempt by the government to make the country, which has had strong economic growth in recent years, more attractive to foreign investment. So there is still a great deal of scepticism about this announcement for the time being and there are questions as to how far this broadening of political freedoms will go. Will freedom of expression and peaceful political action be guaranteed in the law? How long will this new wind continue to blow if investment does not increase as the government hopes? Although there are legitimate doubts about the motivation of the Ethiopian Government, this remains a positive signal from this part of the world. What role will Europe and Belgium play in supporting this positive evolution? An important concern of human rights activists is the follow-up and compliance with the promises made. Can proposals be made, for example within the UN Human Rights Council, for the succession of independent observers to be appointed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u11	The Ethiopian Government has begun to release political prisoners. Although the process started a little slow, thousands of people have already been released. The Ethiopian Government therefore seems to mean that all political prisoners and persons arrested during the period of state of emergency, i.e. between October 2016 and August 2017, should be released. In the meantime, following the resignation of Ethiopian Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn, the state of emergency was declared again for a period of six months on 16 February. The state of emergency was apparently declared to avoid a power vacuum. The discussions on the appointment of a new Prime Minister are still ongoing. The main instrument that Belgium and the EU have to encourage Ethiopia to honour the promises made and to move forward with the democratisation process is the Article 8 dialogue. In addition to the annual EU dialogue with the Ethiopian Prime Minister, the last session took place in July 2017 "Since last year, sectoral dialogues on issues such as human rights, migration and the fight against global warming have been organised in the context of enhanced EU cooperation with Ethiopia. In addition, the European Union also provides a great deal of financial support to Ethiopian civil society and to the construction of various bodies, such as the Ethiopian Civil Rights Commission. Ethiopia has never in the past allowed foreign observers on its territory to monitor human rights or accompany a political process. The UN's thematic special rapporteurs are also rarely or never invited to visit the country. It seems very unlikely that the Ethiopian Government's attitude in this regard has fundamentally changed following this announcement. After the formation of the new government, we can call for an end to the state of emergency and for the release of all political prisoners.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u12	Madam President, Minister, I wanted to highlight the problem of Ethiopia. I also hope that you will follow that up, that a new normal government can be formed and that the people who are still in prison can be released. I hope that we will follow that up at the UN. My question to you is to keep following that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u13	Madam President, Minister, I was recently in Sofia following a COSAC meeting under the presidency of Bulgaria that took over the torch from Estonia. A new Presidency will also give the country holding the Presidency the opportunity to put forward new priorities. One of the themes that Bulgaria wants to focus on is the relationship with the Western Balkans. The country wants to revitalise the issue of European enlargement and provide the countries of the Western Balkans with a realistic and clear roadmap for accession. Because of its isolated location in the south-east of Europe, Bulgaria fears the consequences of an unstable Balkans. Russia, Turkey and China are waiting to exert their influence, which may have negative consequences for the EU. On 17 May, with a summit in Sofia, Bulgaria intends to bring together the European Heads of Government with the countries of the Western Balkans. Meanwhile, the European Commission is preparing a strategy paper in Brussels which puts 2025 forward as a year for a further wave of enlargement, including Montenegro and Serbia. The adoption of this paper was on the agenda for 14 February. Minister, do you support the European Commission's strategy paper? I refer to the following passage from the coalition agreement: 'The European Union must give priority to its deepening or enlargement'. What do you think of the accents put forward by the Bulgarian Presidency? What is the view of your European equivalents with regard to a possible revival of the issue of enlargement of Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u14	Madam President, Mr Luykx, you know that we are mainly working on the Brexit now. That is the first very great challenge for the European Union. Then we are also working on a new definition of Europe, a real future for Europe. This involves a deepening of different policy areas. We are working on this and I hope that it will be possible, after the new German Government has taken office, to proceed with the deepening of European policy. This applies to economic and monetary union, but also to policies on migration, external relations, defence and security. So we are ready to move forward with real deepening of European policy. We prefer this to happen with all 27 European Member States, but if it is necessary it can also be done in another dimension. This is already the case, for example, for the euro area, for Schengen or for the integration of many, but not all, European countries within NATO. As far as relations with the Western Balkans are concerned, I remain in favour of a clear EU perspective for these countries. However, it is an open end process, where progress is based on the merits of each Member State and each individual candidate country. It is therefore up to the applicant countries themselves to demonstrate that they can and want to implement the necessary reforms. Belgium will therefore not support the idea of a common target date, in particular 2025 for Serbia and Montenegro. I indicated this at an informal meeting of the Foreign Ministers in Sofia. We are not in favour of the indication of such a target date. That is, after all, very dangerous for both sides. I repeat that, on the basis of real reforms, it is possible to move forward. For the rest, however, the substance of the strategy is in line with our country's approach. It sends out a clear signal to the candidate country that greater efforts should be made to reform the rule of law and socio-economic policy, as well as to combat corruption and organised crime. This approach also makes it clear that disputes within the region must be resolved before the candidate country can join. We do not want a new conflict within the European Union. We must have a solution before possible accession. The European Commission will also strategically direct its financial support towards these priorities in the form of six flagship programmes. The Bulgarian Presidency has entered into the existing agenda. The priorities are therefore obvious. The Sofia Summit on the Western Balkans offers an opportunity to reaffirm the prospect of EU integration of these countries, which was offered at the last EU Western Balkans Summit in Thessaloniki in 2003, without creating false expectations. The regional context and the situation in each of these countries mean that it has not remained a short-term perspective. I repeat, however, that it is still up to the candidate countries to carry out the necessary reforms and demonstrate that they meet all the conditions for accession. It cannot be denied that the enlargement dossier is considered to be a priority by a significant number of EU partners, including those who are geographically related to the region to which Bulgaria belongs. The countries of the Visegrád Group and the Baltic States also believe that the integration of the western Balkans into the European Union in the area of stability offers great added value. This, of course, involves a risk of imports of instability at the same time. Therefore, other EU partners, such as France, like our country, place the need for deepening of the European Union at the forefront. Our country also consistently stresses, together with France, Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg, that the accession of new Member States must take place on the basis of strict compliance with all the criteria. Unifying the different views in a common approach to enlargement at Council level is a particular challenge. We certainly need to come to a correct Brexit quickly and perhaps quickly to a deepening of the European Union in the coming months, perhaps even before the European elections. Even so, it remains necessary to continue discussions on enlargement on the basis of real reforms, decided and implemented by all possible candidate countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u15	Minister, Europe faces many challenges. Offering perspective to fit in with the vision we are putting forward today is a good thing. We must not import conflicts but we must work towards deepening Europe. What struck me at the European COSAC meeting was that the Bulgarian Presidency did focus on the Western Balkans and on issues related to their region. Maybe that's not wise. In any case, one is situated on one side of Europe, while the support of other European countries is also important. For your information, with the request for enlargement to the Western Balkans, Spain was very consistent, with a clear no pasarán.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u16	For refugees and migrants worldwide, 2017 was a dramatic year. Not only did their numbers increase significantly, but their rights were also severely compromised. Migrants are increasingly caught in the clutches of criminal smugglers. They lead to more and more dangerous routes with more risks for migrants. Therefore, due to the dramatic situation and the inadequate or inadequate legislation that provided the framework for response to migratory flows in many countries, an international framework was announced to remedy this. Global Compact for Migration should address the major migration challenges and recognise and strengthen their potential for contributing to sustainable development. The final discussion on the establishment of this international framework will take place this year. How have the negotiations on the Global Compact for Migration been conducted so far? What is the Belgian position that will be taken in the forthcoming negotiations? Will Parliament be involved in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u17	Ms Pehlivan, from December 2016 to April 2017, discussions took place in New York on the negotiating modalities of the Global Compact for Migration. The United Nations formally adopted those modalities on 6 April 2017 in New York. They provide a leading role for the International Organisation for Migration (IOM) at all stages of the process, consultation and negotiation. The involvement of civil society is also emphasised. According to this modality, a consultation phase followed from April 2017 to December 2017. Six thematic sessions led to a synthesis meeting that took place in Guadalajara in Mexico at the beginning of December. It was followed by the publication of the Secretary-General's report on making migration work for all at the beginning of 2018. The intergovernmental negotiation phase was only launched at the end of February on the basis of a first draft of the Global Compact for Migration, published by the co-conciliators at the end of January. In principle, negotiations will continue from February to July 2018 in New York. The Global Compact should be adopted in the margins of an International Conference on Migration held in Morocco in December 2018. Belgium supports the objective of this compact and indeed participates in the negotiations. The Special Envoy for Asylum and Migration is responsible for this. Consultations with Belgian non-governmental actors and with various relevant Belgian authorities took place in February with a view to determining Belgium's initial position on the basis of the zero draft, knowing that this position may evolve over time, depending on the course of the negotiations. Belgium's position is also being closely consulted with our EU partners. Of course, the internal Belgian process of consultation and decision-making should rather be seen as a contribution to the determination of a united EU position. The initial Belgian and European analysis is that the zero draft generally strikes a fairly good balance between full respect for human rights as a starting point, the positive aspects of irregular migration flows, and the different concerns of the countries of origin, transit and destination. However, certain points of interest to our country and to our partners deserve clarification. For example, there are the distinction between regular and irregular migration, the difference between migrants and refugees, the implementation and the follow-up mechanisms of the compact. The EU and Belgium will therefore seek to safeguard this overall balance while at the same time emphasising the specific accents that affect our country. This is the attitude adopted by the EU in the first round of negotiations in New York last month. It is the European Union delegation in New York that represents the EU in the negotiations. The initial EU consultation on this issue was not always easy due to the different political context in the Member States. However, I will not hide the fact that since the first round, the EU consensus has become even more difficult because of the very harsh positions adopted by a particular EU partner. Belgium will continue to commit itself so that the EU position remains balanced, faithful to the fundamental values of the Union and to the acquis communautaire in the area of migration and movement of persons. The Special Envoy for Asylum and Migration, who is in charge of these negotiations, is prepared to come to Parliament's External Relations Committee to report on the state of negotiations. If that's what you think is necessary, perhaps you could send him an invitation, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u18	Madam President, Minister, I will ask the President to receive the envoys here. It may also be interesting for the Committee on the Interior, since it is about migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u19	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, you have not been able to ask your question, but you will have the opportunity to briefly replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u20	Madam President, Minister, I apologize, I was in another committee. I've been able to follow your answer. I also support the request to invite the Special Envoy to this committee, possibly combined with the Committee on the Interior. After all, the issue remains topical. In the Interparliamentary Union, of which I myself am a member, there was a hearing in New York a few weeks ago. It will also be on the Geneva agenda at the end of this month. It remains a very topical issue and it would be very interesting to have an exchange of views with the Special Envoy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u21	Colleagues, we will look into it together with the secretariat and keep you informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u22	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van der Maelen's 23515 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 23575 lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u23	Minister, on the weekend of 10 and 11 February there were very serious clashes between Israel and Iran on the Israeli-Syrian border. The Israeli army, the IDF, brought down a drone launched from Syria; according to the lsraeli by the infamous Iranian Quds militia. The IDF then attacked bases in Syria, after which an F-16 of the lsraeli was brought down. The IDF reacted heavily, according to the Iraelian Air Force, with the "largest and most significant attack on Syria since 1982." This was the first direct confrontation between Israel and Iran on Syrian soil. It was also from 1982 when an Israeli fighter plane was brought down by enemy artillery. It never happened before that a drone that invaded Israel was led directly by Iran. I hope at least that a delegation from the Belgian Parliament, of which I and my colleague Luykx were part, visited Israel from 4 to 6 February. We visited the Misgav Am kibbutz on the border with Lebanon and Syria in the north of Israel, very close to the area where the F-16 would be taken down a few days later. Our delegation held talks in Jerusalem one day later with members of the Knesset, foreign officials and Israeli from the academic world. They gave us a clear picture of the dominant thinking in Israel about developments in the Middle East. Several interlocutors suggested the possibility of a "full" armed conflict between Israel and Lebanon in response to Iran's construction of one or more missile factories in that northern neighbour of Israel. The summer of 2018 was even mentioned as a concrete time. This must, of course, be seen as a particularly frightening perspective, both for the people on the ground and for the whole Middle East, who are already plagued by great instability, and for the neighbouring region, including me, the EU. I therefore have the following questions concerning the clashes between Israel and Iran in Syria. To what extent do your services also record similar signals about the condition? Do your services know about Iran's construction or proxies of that country? Do you know that Iran likes to work with proxies from such a rocket factory or missile factories in Lebanon? Is this possible concrete threat a subject of discussion at EU level? What initiatives do you advocate with your EU partners to reduce the risk of such a conflict? Do you believe that Belgium can play a role in this? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u24	Minister, I would like to ask you about the situation in Syria and more specifically about the issue of humanitarian aid. We know the situation on the spot is dramatic. A resolution of the United Nations Security Council, unanimously adopted, called for a ceasefire in Syria for a period of 30 days in order to allow humanitarian assistance to be delivered throughout the country, including in the most remote areas, in order to evacuate all the wounded. Despite the various calls by the international community to implement this resolution, the situation on the ground remains unchanged. Many civilians were killed, according to the Syrian Human Rights Observatory, some 15 days ago, in the eastern Gutha region where the regime's fire and raids have not stopped. Mr Minister, the head of European diplomacy calls for the implementation of the UN Security Council resolution to allow the delivery of humanitarian aid to Syria. What initiatives have been taken to implement the resolution and to assist the population?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u25	I have a question on compliance with the UN Security Council Resolution 2401 which imposes a 30-day ceasefire for all of Syria. The immediate cause is the bombing of East Ghouta. The ceasefire applies to all of Syria. There are a number of exceptions that are quite widely interpretable. This is how the fight against terrorist groups can continue. The resolution specifically refers to IS, Al Qaeda, Al Nusra and other terrorist groups recognised as such by the UN Security Council. That brings us to Turkey. On 20 January 2018, Turkey started the so-called operation Olive branch against the Kurds and the district of Afrin. Turkey has set aside the ceasefire and, strangely enough, justifies it by referring to the same resolution. Turkey points out the difference between a literal reading and the interpretation according to the spirit of the text. Although PYD/YPG has never been characterised by the Security Council as terrorist groups, Turkey believes that the fight against these terrorist groups should continue. Turkey regards the PYD as a terrorist group and therefore does not feel bound by the Security Council resolution. I have a number of questions about that. Do you agree that this is a manifest error in the 2401 resolution? Do you agree that this is a direct violation of a binding UN resolution by Turkey? Will you protest to the Turkish authorities, both bilaterally and through international organisations such as NATO, the UN and the EU, about Turkey's failure to respect this resolution? Apparently, Turkey would not have received a signal that their reading of the resolution is wrong. They would be open to discussion, but apparently they have not yet received a formal expression of concern because of any organization if that interpretation would be wrong. Will you also convey your concern about the Turkish operation, regardless of respect for the resolution? Turkey is fighting a partner of the international coalition against IS, which, as far as is known, was not a direct threat to Turkey. What is the current state of affairs in the Afrin region? What diplomatic means have been available, including Turkey, to stop violence and avoid civilian casualties since the request was submitted?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u26	Madam President, Minister, my question is also about Resolution 2401 adopted by the UN Security Council. It is only logical that a resolution was discussed on a ceasefire in Syria so that the necessary humanitarian aid can be provided. That aid was and is needed and will remain necessary, because until today that resolution has remained dead letter. The people in Syria need help and help is also available, but that help simply does not touch the people they need. The problem with this resolution is that different parties give it a different interpretation, for example, about when it has to come into force and to whom the resolution applies, as Mr De Vriendt has just said. For example, in Afrin, Turkey continues to fight the Kurdish rebels under the guise of self-defense against the PYD. Russia operates according to its own interpretation of the needs on the ground and made a compromise by paused the bombing every day for about five hours. However, this time frame is far too short to bring the assistance that is available to the people. We are also receiving reports of poisonous gas attacks by the Syrian regime in East Ghouta and of the fact that aid convoys must hand over drugs to the Syrian army. In short, there is a humanitarian disaster there and we are unable to get help to the citizens. Minister, the ceasefire will always be too late, but it is necessary. Can you explain why this is still not being carried out? What is your opinion on the different interpretations of the resolution? When was this resolution supposed to be in force? What impact would it have on the terrain? According to your interpretation, does the PYD, as Mr De Vriendt said earlier, also fall under that resolution? A legally binding UN resolution is not being complied with. What does that say about the role that the United Nations is still playing today? What other efforts are our country and the EU making to ensure that there is a ceasefire in Syria? There are reports of attacks by the Syrian regime with napalm against civilians in East Ghouta. Can you confirm those messages? If those messages are true, then it is a matter of serious war crimes. What action will we, as an international community, take against this? Finally, how can we, with the European Union, better enforce the application of international humanitarian law?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u27	Madam President, my questions are similar to those of my colleagues. Since 20 January, the Turkish offensive has continued in Syria, against the YPG Kurds, considered terrorist by Ankara. With Russia's prior agreement, Turkey has therefore crossed an international border and attacked Kurdish forces, the main component of the SDS, yet our partners in the international coalition against Daesh. I recall that it was they, the YPGs, who fought Daesh on the ground, saved Kobane, liberated Raqqa and contributed greatly to defeating the Islamic State. According to various sources, to help him in his offensive, Turkey has also trained and equipped Islamist armed groups. They would accompany and support the Turkish army in the African enclave. In addition to the powerful Turkish army, therefore, the Kurds must once again face and fight alone against Islamist groups put back in the saddle by Turkey. Our allies against Daesh are therefore attacked by Turkey, while not a single shot was fired at that country and by these Islamic groups. What are the initiatives currently being taken by the European Union and NATO to stop this offensive, which is contrary to international law and which adds a new front to the terrible Syrian conflict, causing new victims, especially civilian ones, in a war that has already caused so many deaths and unbalanced the region? What is being done to help these Kurdish forces, now that they are caught up by Turkey? Have you confirmed the presence of former Islamic State forces in Turkish forces? A fundamental question arises. Why would Turkey still be a loyal partner in the Atlantic Alliance today? Furthermore, on the Ghouta, my questions are largely in line with those asked by my colleagues and I will not go back to that. However, I would like to add that, on the proposal of the United Kingdom, the United Nations Human Rights Council adopted a resolution on 5 March calling for an urgent, comprehensive and independent investigation by the International Independent Investigation Commission on Syria into recent events. In this context, what is the role and involvement of Belgium in the drafting and possible implementation of this resolution? What can be expected in practice following the adoption of this text? Four out of 47 States voted against and 14 abstained. Can you tell us what these States are?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I obviously share your concern about the humanitarian situation in Syria. Since the beginning of my mandate, I have consistently drawn the attention of the international community to the issue of humanitarian access and the need to respect international humanitarian law in the Syrian conflict. In particular, we have done a great deal of work with the International Committee of the Red Cross. Humanitarian aid is a moral imperative and a fundamental expression of the universal value of solidarity among peoples. It must be brought with no ulterior motives and cannot, under any circumstances, fall within a political or military line of action. Humanitarian aid is also not an instrument for crisis management. Endorsing the fundamental humanitarian principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence is essential for Belgium to provide assistance through partner organisations in often complex political and security contexts, such as in Syria. Respect for the fundamental principles of international humanitarian law, including unhindered humanitarian access, unconditional medical evacuations and the protection of civilians and civilian infrastructure, such as hospitals, is an absolute and urgent imperative to prevent further civilian casualties. As I said, in the Syrian crisis, Belgium supports, inter alia, interventions by the International Committee of the Red Cross, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the World Food Programme, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Aid, UNRRA and humanitarian funds. The crisis in Syria has already demonstrated, on many occasions, that the United Nations Security Council can only be truly effective when the major Powers agree to act together. The fact that the Security Council has, for the first time in a long time, been able to reach an agreement on a resolution to allow the provision of humanitarian assistance to the affected Syrian population is, in itself, a positive development that Belgium welcomes. But the value of this resolution lies, of course, in its effective implementation. That is why Belgium calls for the urgent and complete application of this text, not only as a humanitarian imperative, but also as a guarantee of the credibility of the Security Council and the international community. If Belgium was elected a member of the Security Council, it would continue to highlight its traditional support for the multilateral legal framework in order to better guarantee respect for international law. The Russian proposal for a five-hour humanitarian break per day is simply insufficient to deliver humanitarian aid in a safe and effective manner, in accordance with resolution 2401. Unfortunately, we are far from it, as the fact that a humanitarian convoy has had to withdraw hastily from the eastern Ghouta in recent days, as a result of the resumption of the bombings. Belgium therefore advocates within the European Union to maintain strong pressure not only on Russia but also on Iran, so that the implementation of resolution 2401 will materialise as soon as possible. These two countries, because of their present special position in Syria, also have a great responsibility in reviving the negotiation process led by the UN Special Envoy, Staffan de Mistura, and in encouraging the Bashar al-Assad regime to participate fully in it. I personally had the opportunity to convey this message of Russia's responsibility to my colleague, Sergey Lavrov, during my recent visit to Moscow. A resolution on the situation in Eastern Ghouta was adopted in the Human Rights Council last week. Belgium has actively supported the resolution, as a co-sponsor in the submission of the resolution. Russia's efforts to undermine essential elements in the resolution, including the role of the commission of inquiry to investigate crimes in Eastern Ghouta, were blocked by Belgium and like-minded people. Twenty-nine countries voted in favour of the resolution and four countries, Burundi, China, Venezuela and Cuba, voted against. In addition, a general resolution on the situation across Syria will also be put to the vote in the Human Rights Council next week. In this resolution, which extends the mandate of the commission of inquiry, Belgium will also act as cosponsor. The work of the commission of inquiry is very important in the fight against impunity in Syria. The Israeli-Iranian confrontation in Syria a few weeks ago can undoubtedly be regarded as very serious. Nevertheless, it was found in the days following the incidents that neither party seemed inclined to escalate the matter further. However, in view of the conflicting interests of Iran and Israel, new tensions cannot be ruled out in the near future. Israel has in the past always regarded the supply of, among other things, rocket material to Lebanese Hezbollah as a red line. Iran makes no secret of supporting Hezbollah in his opposition to the State of Israel. Information on the delivery of rocket material to Hezbollah has led to an immediate Israeli response in the past. The construction of a missile factory in Lebanon or Syria might also lead to an Israeli reaction. Indeed, unconfirmed reports have been published about a military base that Iran would be building near Damascus. The EU and Belgium want to continue the implementation of JCPOA, a core agreement with Iran. We are also prepared to discuss the ballistic masses and Iran's influence in the region in another forum. Perhaps we can achieve this in countries in that region, from Lebanon to Yemen. In this respect, the strengthening of the mandate of the UN mission UNIFIL could be useful in order for the UN mission to carry out better controls on arms in South Lebanon. Syria is regularly on the agenda of the European Union and, of course, it also addresses regional tensions. Like the European Union, Belgium, on the one hand, is in favour of maintaining the nuclear agreement with Iran, on the other hand, we are very critical of Iran's regional role, including in Syria and Yemen, and certainly of its attitude towards Israel. Belgium is therefore in favour of a critical dialogue with Iran, including on its regional position and also on the missile programme, which could pose a threat to Israel. In addition, Belgium is trying to encourage the European Union to take a more active role in achieving the political process for resolving the conflict in Syria. After all, this conflict increases regional tensions, whether or not through so-called proxies. With regard to the Turkish military operation, "Rameau d'Olivier", Belgium has clearly indicated to Ankara its deep concern and reminded Turkey of its obligations under international humanitarian law, in particular with regard to the principles of necessity and proportionality, in view of the humanitarian consequences of its action. There are significant risks associated with this Turkish operation, especially since many intermediaries are involved. This is the message that I gave a Turkish Minister for European Affairs at an informal meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union in Sofia on 15 and 16 February, in the presence of the candidate countries. Turkey is also required to implement recent United Nations Security Council resolution 2401. However, it includes, as has been pointed out by several speakers, provisions allowing for the continuation of operations against certain terrorist movements on which Turkey, like other parties to the conflict, is relying, to justify the continuation of these operations. In our view, this way of interpreting this resolution is wrong and the international community should repeat it during Security Council meetings and bilateral contacts with the various actors present on the ground. On the ground, and on the basis of the information available to us, it appears that the Turkish forces are making difficult but continuous progress, as evidenced by recent developments. Turkey or the Free Syrian Army, supported by Turkey, have taken control of dozens of villages in the Turkish-Syrian border region. It remains to be seen whether Turkey really intends to take the city of Afrin or whether its strategic objective is to take a position in the border region, including in the direction of Manbij. The arrival of Syrian pro-government militias in the Afrin region could also play a role in that regard. An incident has already taken these pro-government militias and Turkish artillery. Belgium's specific actions take place mainly within the European Union in order to make the latter's voice heard in obtaining a Security Council resolution and, above all, its difficult implementation. We are also acting bilaterally and across the Union to intervene with a number of actors on the ground. I would like to refer here to the interventions that we have been able to make with regard to Russia and Iran, but also with regard to Turkey. However, we realize that without a political solution to the Syrian issue, we will regularly remain confronted with operations by international or regional actors with their own interests and agendas. In this context, we may think that the retreat of Daesh or other terrorist groups in the region revives and returns to the forefront the national agendas of some actors. We can only regret this situation which we can also address in bilateral contacts and in future discussions within NATO, where we are opposed to one of the coalition partners or at least the transatlantic Alliance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u29	Mr. Secretary, you got a whole sandwich of mixed questions. I thank you for finding the space to respond to the specific point I raised. A very interesting article has been published about our visit, which I recommend for reading, because I wrote it myself. Whoever stands at the border finds that Israel and Hezbollah are on toe. It's impressive how much they look into each other's eyes. You were right to note that, fortunately, there was no escalation. There is a consensus in the international press that direct confrontation is not sought, but that there is a risk of escalation due to uncontrolled reactions or uncontrolled developments, given the proximity of the fronts. Moreover, the members of the delegation will not contradict this. Israel is particularly committed to the threat that might exist there. I would add that President Netanyahu is undoubtedly still fighting for a very different reason, namely his political survival. Indeed, it is not the first time that foreign themes have to serve to save a domestic career. That factor should also be taken into account. That is why it is extremely important that your services, especially now that we hear that a real conflict could erupt in the summer of 2018, follow this closely, of course. I am also counting on you, whatever forum you may refer to, to say that we need to be very awake for that. If necessary, the situation is likely to become completely out of control.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u30	Madam President, I thank the Minister for his very comprehensive response. It was obviously more than interesting to take stock of this complicated issue. Perhaps the United Nations resolution is in the right direction. Yet it must be applied, which is far from the case. I repeat, humanitarian aid and the implementation of this resolution must be the priority of our diplomacy, but also of European diplomacy and more broadly of international diplomacy. It is important not to allow the situation on the spot to get worse, especially in the eyes of the many victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u31	Thank you for your comprehensive reply, Minister. I would like to put three more points on the table. Firstly, you say that it is positive that Russia and China, among other things, have supported the UN resolution. However, the question is whether Russia is not buying goodwill from the international community in a very cheap way, while it does not pay any costs, because it can simply continue operations over East Ghouta. Secondly, Turkey should be given an opportunity to express its concern about the interpretation of the UN resolution. This seems to be important for Turkey. We had a meeting with the Turkish ambassador. They're waiting for a signal. Maybe it's just a pretext and one wants to buy a little time. Thirdly, you said there are diplomatic possibilities. Both bilaterally and multilaterally, some of our concerns are transferred to, for example, Turkey, the Syrian regime and Russia. However, if they simply ignore these concerns, then of course there is little effect. Is there anything diplomatic about getting all the important players, including the US and Russia, around the table, so that we can somehow negotiate, and of course we also have an eye for the Russian interests that are playing in Syria? Russia has interests there. There is no point in demanding that Syria post-Assad become a new puppet regime of the United States or the West. The effect of this would of course be that Russia would hold on to President Assad and Syria. Is this the kind of negotiation that is currently under way? Could Belgium and the European Union strive to do so in a very realistic way, bearing in mind each other's interests? Only in this way will something improve there. There's no point just passing on concerns. They just keep throwing it away. The Russians do that, so does Turkey. Turkey is also a member of NATO. The door to the European Union is open. Can this be used as a diplomatic lever and as a means of putting a little more pressure on Turkey, rather than merely conveying some concerns about what is happening?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. We must indeed try to strengthen the role of the European Union, both in the short term, to correct today's humanitarian situation and the misinterpretation and non-implementation of the resolution, and in the longer term, as the previous speaker said, to resolve the conflict in Syria. In any case, I hope that Belgium will try to emphasise this role in the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u33	Mr Minister, I have already had the opportunity, in a rather lively exchange with you in plenary, to say a little bit of my outrage at the way in which the international community is dealing with this issue. The solutions are obviously not easy, but this conflict has been going on for eight years. It is the bloodiest and longest that modern history has known. It happens at our doors and seriously destabilizes us. He provides immense destabilization and it seems that we are totally unable to stop him. I'm not saying we're not doing anything, but the facts are there. We finally rejoice at very little. We think we have a resolution but, in fact, this resolution is obviously trampled on within the hour. Bashar al-Assad's forces are progressing, bombardments continue and ICRC convoys must retreat. It is a totally terrifying situation for the people who are besieged, not only in Ghouta, but also in Iblip and other areas. It feels like we're totally incapable of stopping this. Dozens of people are killed every day and this deeply and sustainably destabilizes our European project, our values. That's scary! The way Russia manages this conflict is ultimately a formidable weapon for our own European project, beyond Syria. This obviously affects the stability of the world as a whole. We are unable to act on this actor who has already refused a dozen Security Council resolutions and when he ends up accepting one from his lips, it is to violate it immediately. I'm making this terrible observation. I think we still have much stronger weapons than we don't use. Why, for example, are these explosive barrels not prohibited? They are weapons to be discriminated against that should be prohibited by humanitarian law. Belgium could take an initiative in that regard. We could, as the United States did at some point, neutralize aircraft or helicopters that bomb civilians with such weapons. I think we're way below what we could do there. I am extremely concerned, not only for the Syrians but also for ourselves. On the other hand, as far as Turkey is concerned, I note that you have repeated the words you have already said, that is, your concern and your demand for respect for international humanitarian law. I think it's way below what we should do. It's not a concern, it's a condemnation. It is not humanitarian law that is violated, that is, international law, that is, the crossing of a border by another country by its army. You invoke international humanitarian law, it is international law that must be invoked in this case. It's the rape of a border by a foreign country. You even suggest that it is because of this destabilization in Syria that Turkey must intervene there. I think this has nothing to do with it. Turkey is obviously not threatened by the Syrian Kurds. There was not a single shot on the part of these Kurds towards Turkey. I am indeed waiting for a much stronger confirmation from a country that today is increasingly acting as a security partner and, on the contrary, is playing with our own security in this part of the world, attacking without motive and without serious arguments another population and which, therefore, must be effectively condemned and punished. One cannot with impunity make one believe that one is part of an alliance, in which one shares values and interests of security while working with Islamist groups to attack a third country. This is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u34	Madam President, I would like to thank my colleagues and the Minister for changing our committee's agenda a little bit to allow me to defend a motion for a resolution in the Infrastructure Committee. Mr Minister, an Israeli military court decided on 17 January to keep the adolescent Ahed Tamimi in detention until his trial. The decision of a military judge at Ofer prison in the occupied West Bank potentially means that 16-year-old Ahed Tamimi, arrested in December following a viral video showing him hitting Israeli soldiers, could remain in detention for months. The Israeli Defense Minister, Avigdor Lieberman, welcomed the court's decision by tweeting: "Our message is clear: whoever attacks IDF soldiers will pay dearly." Human rights organisations and the European Union expressed concern. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights expressed "its deep concern", stressing in a communiqué that, according to international standards, a child should only be detained as a last resort. NGOs called for her immediate release, including Amnesty, who believes that the girl did nothing to justify her detention. According to the resolution adopted by our Assembly last year, the government had to commit itself to "continue to urge the Israeli authorities to put an end to the use of the technique of administrative detention, in particular as a means of repression of political movements and associations; condemn this practice on the international scene, paying particular attention to the situation of minors detained under this regime and calling on the Israeli authorities to guarantee the right of Palestinians to a fair trial". What, then, is the position expressed by Belgium, Mr. Minister, on the pre-trial detention of Ahed Tamimi?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u35	Madam President, Minister, Ahed Tamimi has become a symbol of the occupation and detention policy of the State of Israel, which has been keeping this young girl in pre-trial detention for almost three months. The military court held in camera confirmed on 13 February its continued detention until the next hearing of its trial on 11 March. As many international organizations recall, Israel thus violates the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, as it does with the 313 Palestinian children detained in Israeli prisons, including two in administrative detention, according to the figures of the Israeli NGO B'Tselem at the end of November 2017. You answered a question I already asked you about this on 8 February and your answer did not satisfy me because you are talking about "the restraint you demand from both sides", when this is clearly one party that violates the fundamental rights of another. Minister, in your answer to my question, you referred to Belgium's request of 12 January to have an investigation carried out following the arrest, detention and death of a minor. What about this investigation? What initiative will Belgium take, on the one hand, and the EU, on the other, in relation to this very problematic situation concerning the detention and treatment of minors without any respect for their rights in general, and that of Ahed Tamimi, in particular, by the State of Israel?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in general, the use by the Israeli authorities of administrative detentions and the extension of such detentions without any need for justification are extremely worrying, as I have already pointed out on several occasions. Administrative detention is a measure that must remain of an exceptional nature, for a limited period of time, taking into account various guarantees, such as respect for the rights of defence of the detainee and the right to a fair trial within a reasonable time. This is a position that Belgium emphasises on every occasion, both at multilateral level in European coordination, but also in the bilateral talks that we have with representatives of the Israeli government. As far as minors are concerned, our position is even more firm. It is a point of view that we defend on every occasion that is given to us. We did so again recently, during Israel's universal periodic evaluation to the Human Rights Council on 23 January. On that occasion, Belgium explicitly requested the Israeli authorities to take the necessary measures to ensure that Palestinian children were not exposed to arbitrary arrest and detention and could fully enjoy their rights, in accordance with international human rights standards. Since the end of 2017, our post in Jerusalem has taken over the local EU presidency of the Security Council working group on children and armed conflict and has been monitoring juvenile trials in this context. My collaborators attended a hearing in the case of Ahed and Nuriman Tamimi on 15 January. With regard to Ahed Tamimi in particular, Belgium endorsed the declaration by the local representatives of the European Union and its Member States, in which we express our deep concern at the fate of Ahed Tamimi and Fawzi Mohammed al-Juneidi, recalling Israel's international obligations in the field of human rights and international humanitarian law, in particular with regard to the conditions of arrest and detention. Our position is clear: the Convention on the Rights of the Child is still applicable, including under military occupation. This is a point that we will not fail to reiterate in our contacts with the Israeli authorities. We are systematically returning, together with our European colleagues, to the various aspects of these issues, including, of course, requests for independent investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u37	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. I have no doubt about the clarity of our diplomatic position and it is important that you can recall it. However, the problem is that, although this position is recalled, it is, unfortunately, rarely followed by positive effects for Palestinian women and Palestinians who, on a day-to-day basis, suffer these incessant violations of their most fundamental rights. We therefore always come to the same conclusion and the solutions, unfortunately, are not provided. I once again insist that our country finally recognize the State of Palestine. I believe that this could be an important element in order to ensure that these fundamental rights can one day be respected. And I also come back to the question of sanctions, which, at some point, must be put on the table if we want real means of pressure to be exerted on a State that basically continues to violate international conventions or international law, without any reaction other than diplomatic one being brought to the table. It is also useful to recall this question and to discuss it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u38	Mr Minister, I take note of the fact that you consider this situation to be "extremely worrying", in your words, and that Belgium emphasises this situation whenever it encounters an Israeli interlocutor. Each time, you kindly repeat to your Israeli interlocutors that it is not right to do so. I think that at some point we have to draw conclusions from it. What amazes me a little is the policy of varying geometry with regard to sanctions, both on the part of Belgium and the European Union, since there are countries that we do not hesitate to sanction. But if there is one country that would deserve, in relation to all that it has historically done with respect to violations of international law and human rights, it is Israel. But of course, these sanctions do not apply, simply because Israel is a loyal ally of the Western camp, and that is what guides the policies of Belgium and the EU. I also note that you did not answer my question about the investigation, in connection with a previous question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u39	Minister, negotiations on trade agreements with South America resumed last week. While the French President had initially expressed concern about the impact on French farming of the increase in beef import quotas provided for in the agreement with Mercosur, he would seem to no longer be so opposed and would like to press for the finalisation of the agreement with all the risks that such an agreement could pose to several key sectors of Belgian and more broadly European activity. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. What is Belgium's position in these negotiations? What safeguards does our country require in this context and how is consultation with federated entities and relevant actors conducted? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u40	Mr Minister, after 18 years of negotiations, negotiations on a free trade treaty between the European Union and Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay are announced to be unblocked and concluded. This is the EU-Mercosur Treaty. This is obviously not at all insignificant, when we know the size of the two markets in question. It is also not anomalous a year and a half after the CETA episode and the massive wave of opposition in Belgium and Europe to the European Union's free trade policies. We are aware of the consequences of these free trade agreements, which are in fact extensive agreements for the competition of our social, health, environmental and ultimately democratic systems for the benefit of the large multinationals. The peoples are the losers, and that is what leads them to reject these agreements, I think they have clearly expressed this in various ways in recent years. In the more specific case of the Mercosur agreement, experts also point out even more clearly that it is the less industrialized countries of the South that will be the big losers of such an opening of their markets, which risks to bring them back towards the primacy of their economy. The question is what you have chosen, especially from the CETA episode. My questions are as follows. What is Belgium's position on this agreement and the ongoing negotiations? On the basis, in particular, of the CETA episode, what steps will be taken to put this agreement, before it is signed, largely in debate? What measures at the level of transparency? All the experts say that, in the case of this agreement, it is a win-win deal between the South American agricultural industry and the major manufacturing industries in Europe. This obviously raises a lot of questions about the consequences for the peoples there and here. Indeed, it is known, and it is pointed out in particular by the CNCD, that such agreements strengthen the concentration and land grabbing of South America. What impact studies have been carried out at this level? What consequences will this have for South American farmers? What are the consequences for European farmers as well? Same at the level of industry-level consequences. Have any impact studies been carried out on the consequences here and there? UN experts had been able to quantify the job losses associated with the CETA conclusion. Can they be asked to do the same in this case? Finally, I finish at the health level. There are still questions that remain. What measures are being taken to ensure the precautionary principles?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, Belgium supports the negotiation of an ambitious and balanced trade agreement with the four Mercosur countries, which will offer very important economic prospects for many sectors. Belgium is attentive to the inclusion of strong sustainable development standards and strict standards accompanied by a robust monitoring mechanism. Greater access to the Mercosur market for our exports of goods and services, respect for social and environmental standards, the rules of fair competition and transparency, or the protection of consumers and their health, are essential elements of the Belgian position. In addition, the Association Agreement in which the trade agreement will be incorporated will allow us to strengthen our ties with the Mercosur countries. The content of the agreements and the way in which they are negotiated have changed considerably in recent years. The agreement with Mercosur will incorporate many of these new factors, such as the inclusion of the precautionary principle. Thus, in the area of transparency, draft terms of reference are now systematically published and Belgium advocates the systematic publication of the mandate finally granted to the Commission, which is adopted by the Council. Many texts under negotiation are also published on the Commission's website. Furthermore, since the resumption of negotiations with Mercosur in mid-2016, the European Commission and the Member States have carried out a wide range of outreach activities with a view to fuelling debate and exchanges on these negotiations. My services have already had regular contacts with a large number of interlocutors: representatives of NGOs, federations in different sectors, companies in general, researchers, etc. It is also out of respect for transparency that we must justify our choices before expressing a definitive opinion in Council meetings. I have again recently, at the last Council of Trade Ministers, stressed the offensive interests, but also the great sensitivities in the agricultural sector (beef, poultry, ethanol and sugar). I called on the European Commission to look at the issue in a cross-cutting way, addressing the cumulative effect of the various trade agreements in this cross-cutting approach. I also stressed the need to maintain quota openings for beef, with as low volumes as possible, and mentioned some key elements in this context, including a chapter on robust sanitary and phytosanitary aspects, with effective follow-up measures. I have put forward a few points for reflection, including a European management of quotas or the need to examine a segmentation of quotas. These proposals aim to regulate the possible negative impact of an agreement as we have identified it. More broadly in terms of impact, many studies exist and often come to surprising conclusions, particularly because Mercosur has remained largely absent from major trade negotiations and does not have a free trade agreement with any major trading partner. I will mention here only the impact assessment carried out by the Commission in the context of the negotiation with Mercosur, which leads to the inclusion of an ambitious chapter on trade and sustainable development, in order to improve its implementation and integration. What we will do, we will see to it and we will continue to see to it. In general, Belgium is careful to ensure that trade agreements move towards a better framework for existing trade and lead to a levelling-off from the top. I can therefore confirm that I had the opportunity to defend this point of view with my colleagues at the last informal Council meeting in Sofia on trade. I then took stock of this negotiation last Friday, in particular, but also of other ongoing negotiations within the ACP with my colleagues from the governments of the Regions and the Communities. I have also had the opportunity to hear support for the policy that we have developed, particularly with regard to the agricultural sector, with the idea of having a cross-cutting analysis and therefore an analysis of the cumulative effects of the various agreements. We must realize that we also have offensive interests to assert, including in the agricultural sector with respect to Mercosur. I am always trying to put these negotiations in the context of the trade processes that are being carried out by the federated entities. I recall that there is already a lot of time, it is the federated entities themselves that have proposed that the next trade mission that we will have to develop under the chairmanship of Princess Astrid take place in Argentina and Uruguay, at the request of the regional governments already well before the summer of last year, which some have sometimes called "summer murder" but this is another debate. I stress that full information has been given to regional and community entities. We shall therefore return to this matter again. I believe that there is indeed a need to take into account the legitimate concerns in particular of the agricultural sector which have been expressed in us and in other countries. We'll see how we can answer that. I have in any case asked the Commission to pay attention to this, including in this analysis of the cumulative effects of the various agreements since we have CETA, we have these ongoing negotiations with Mercosur and Mexico, but there will be a mandate for negotiations with Australia and New Zealand. There is therefore a whole series of texts that could have cumulative effects in the various sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answers. We will need to deepen this issue in the coming weeks, when further information becomes available.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u43	Minister, thank you for your answers. I note that very few impact assessments have been conducted. This is one of the problems in this case. You explain to us that we have made progress on how to design these treaties, in terms of precautionary principles, transparency, etc. In itself, this shows that the fighting against CETA or TTIP has already borne some fruit. Indeed, governments are obliged to hear the voice of the people. That said, this treaty is a damaging act for both the European people and - and above all - the peoples of South America. When you say that "we have offensive interests to assert", it clearly means that the interests of the people of South America are not taken into account. It is not our conception of international relations, which must be guided by the principle of fair trade. In this case, we are in the presence – but it is not surprising on your part – of a purely liberal vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u44	Minister, a year ago, the Colombian government and the FARC-EP guerrillas signed, after five years of laborious negotiations, a peace agreement to end decades of armed conflict and political and social violence. Considered by international observers as a political-legal model for exiting the state of war, the agreement provided for the disarmament of insurgent forces and their transformation into political movement, the reintegration of their combatants into civilian life, as well as the establishment of a transitional justice system (JEP) and a series of political, economic and social reforms, particularly relating to agrarian policy, including the redistribution of land, the substitution of coca leaf crops and the development of peasant reserve areas (ZRC). One year later, the progress made in the implementation of this agreement has raised the concerns of Colombian and international peace-makers and actors. While the number of people killed in connection with the armed conflict decreased significantly between 2012 (start of the peace talks) and 2016, the killings of human rights defenders, social leaders and demobilized FARC fighters have increased since the signing of the agreement. Many areas abandoned by guerrillas in the context of demobilization have been occupied by far-right paramilitary groups. Between 24 November 2016 and 31 October 2017, 94 killings of social leaders and human rights defenders were committed, while 21 FARC veterans and 11 family members of former guerrillas were murdered. The failure to comply with the essential points of the agreement signed by the two parties, on the one hand, and the resurgence of assassinations and other forms of socio-political violence, on the other, seriously jeopardized the outcome of a peace process that had brought so much hope to millions of Colombians and observers on the international stage. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. What information do you get from our diplomacy on the spot? What position does Belgium stand in relation to this endangerment of the peace agreements? Has Belgium sought, through the available political and economic instruments, results in the judicial investigation and conviction of those responsible for these attacks and in the effective protection of human rights defenders?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u45	Mevrouw de voorzitter, Mrs Grovonius, our country closely monitors the human rights situation in Colombia, which is closely linked to the peace process, and to the struggle of armed groups for territory and control of narco-trafficking and other illegal activities. This has led to an increase in violence against social leaders, human rights defenders and ex-guerilleros and their families, mainly in rural areas. While special zones, territorial areas for training and reintegration, have been created, which enjoy acceptable security conditions, ex-guerilleros and their families have been the victims and targets of assassinations outside these areas. The UN verification mission reports 34 ex-guerilleros and 13 family members killed between April and December 2017. In addition, the NGO Somos Defensores recorded 90 killings of social leaders and human rights defenders between January and November 2017, an increase of 32 per cent compared to the same period of the previous year. Social leaders and human rights defenders promoting illicit crop substitution programmes were the targets of threats and assassinations. To address the security situation, the Colombian Government has adopted a plan that focuses on the most dangerous municipalities and provides for increased collaboration between the security forces, civil authorities and local communities. At the judicial level, the Public Prosecutor's Office has decided to give priority to investigations into the murder of social leaders and human rights defenders. In December 2017, the government also passed decrees aimed at collective protection of groups and communities. Belgium, as you know, supports the peace process and encourages the Colombian authorities to take all necessary measures to guarantee the security conditions of the demobilized ex-guerilleros, as well as human rights activists and social leaders. Peace-building requires the effective and speedy implementation of the peace agreement. All these issues are closely monitored by our country, particularly in the context of the European coordination meetings, where it is regularly decided to draw the attention of the Colombian authorities to specific problems, for example, in the context of an approach to the Colombian government or by sending a letter. As I have told you, we have supported the negotiation process from the very beginning in order to reach peace agreements. As in many other comparable situations, the great difficulty is to implement these agreements and to see what support can therefore be given to the Colombian Government in the process of pacifying a country that has been subjected to this state of internal war for so long. I would add – and that will not surprise you – that respect for the rule of law and fundamental human rights are also an essential element of the EU-Colombia-Peru-Ecuador Free Trade Agreement and could therefore contribute to the improvement of human rights in the country. This would require ratification by all the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. Of course, I hear your comment on the trade agreement. However, it remains to be demonstrated that this agreement could indeed have a positive impact on the current human rights situation. Some believe that this is not necessarily the case and that other ways should probably be found to do more than draw the attention of the Colombian government to the situation. Very concrete measures must be taken to organise all the necessary judicial investigations, with all the necessary convictions in this context. That's a point you haven't answered. We have significant means of exerting pressure on this Colombian government. We should activate them more. I will certainly return to you in this regard as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u47	Mr Minister, last November the project was presented in Brussels. The aim is to launch a new system to combat natural disasters, including technical equipment and a budget directly managed by the European Commission. The multiplication of natural disasters during 2017 in Europe and on other continents prompted the Juncker Commission to step up its action to consolidate its concept of a "Europe that protects". Like the Belgian B-Fast, many countries already have such emergency structures. Minister, what will be Belgium's position on this EU-led project? Will Belgium defend at European level a multi-departmental model involving civilian and military resources and means, as is the case in Belgium? I would also like to ask you again when you will be ready to present the B-FAST audit report that has been awaited for months – not to say years – by our assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u48	Mrs Grovonius, Belgium supports the initiative but would like to avoid any duplication. In particular, it stresses the importance of the principle of subsidiarity. According to Belgium, this initiative must remain an instrument of last resort to be activated when national capacities and solidarity between the member countries of the existing European Civil Protection Mechanism are not sufficient. Belgium believes that the capacity to be developed should be identified on the basis of an adequate analysis of the shortcomings rather than being defined in advance, as is the case in the proposal. There are four areas in which the initiative provides for capacity building, but we would like to see what shortcomings this corresponds to in the current functioning of the European Civil Protection Mechanism. The text of the proposal must also provide sufficient flexibility to identify other capabilities to be developed in the future and as required. In its proposal, the Commission did not specify whether the new mechanism would involve civilian and military means. Consequently, Belgium did not express itself on the subject, pending further clarification from the Commission. For B-FAST, the first part of the Finance Inspectorate's financial audit report was submitted to you on November 16, 2017. In December 2017, the federal internal audit service began with the audit of foreign emergency assistance processes as implemented by B-FAST. As you know, the Federal Internal Audit Service has a very busy agenda and has agreed to insert this audit into its usual schedule while asking us to comply with the execution "within a time frame consistent with its possibilities". I will, of course, keep you informed of the results of this last part of B-FAST's audit report and will certainly insist on my colleague who is in charge of this service to ensure that it is carried out as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u49	Minister, thank you. Following the next episodes!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u50	Deputy Prime Minister, on 3 October 2017, I already asked you about the consequences of the destruction of a school in Jubbet Al Dib, near Bethlehem, Palestine. You replied that our country had protested to the Israeli government and that a letter demanding financial compensation had been sent to it, which had been co-signed by the representatives of Denmark, France, Ireland, Luxembourg and Sweden. On 4 February, the Israeli army again razed two classes from a Palestinian school in Abu Nuwar, near Jerusalem. These classes had also been financed by several European countries, including Belgium. Already on 9 August 2017, solar panels financed by Belgian cooperation had been destroyed in the same village, visibly strategic in the ongoing Israeli colonial conquest. Minister, could you please clarify to me the content of any replies received from the Israeli government regarding the letter sent at the end of last year? In the event of an unsatisfactory response from Israel, do you envisage diplomatic retaliatory measures such as the convening or dismissal of the Israeli ambassador to Belgium? Have you undertaken any further steps to request compensation on a strictly bilateral basis or have you undertaken them in consultation with our 5 allies? What would be the other European countries with which your services could form an alliance on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u51	Mr Hellings, Belgium's humanitarian cooperation programme in zone C of the Palestinian territories takes place, in large part, in an informal partnership with several European countries called the "Protection Consortium for the West Bank". The other members are Denmark, Spain, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg and Sweden, as well as the Delegation of the European Union. The primary objective of this partnership is to ensure coordination and coherence of projects in Area C so as to best meet the needs. At the end of last year, for the first time, and at the initiative of Belgium, the members of the Consortium agreed to jointly address a protest and a request for compensation for the destruction of a project financed by certain members of the group, including Belgium. To date, the Israeli authorities have not responded to this request. In the oral contacts that took place on this subject, it justifies this attitude by reading the law giving precedence to the Oslo agreements signed by the Israeli and Palestinian parties over the provisions of international humanitarian law and the Fourth Geneva Conventions. According to this reading, the Oslo agreements have placed zone C under the exclusive control of the Israeli authorities, so they have the right to establish regulations requiring the obtaining of a building permit for any construction in the area. In this respect, the members of the Consortium argue that the Oslo agreements do not alter Israel's obligations as an occupying Power, including the obligation to administer the area for the benefit of local populations and the obligation not to subject humanitarian aid to conditionality unless there is a compelling military reason. We will therefore continue our work on this first situation. We took an initiative, followed by the members of the Consortium, to go for the first time towards a request for compensation. On 4 February, the Israeli authorities effectively demolished two prefabricated units, sheltering classes for 26 Palestinian schoolchildren in the community of Abu Nuwar. In this case, contrary to reports from some media, there was no Belgian funding for the project. Not all Consortium projects are funded by all members. However, they are generally presented on-site collectively as Consortium projects. The project therefore bore the logo of all the members of the Consortium, including that of Belgian cooperation, which explains the confusion. But if Belgium has not had a direct financial impact as a result of the latter destruction, we intend to show solidarity with our European partners, as they have been with us when demolitions concerned projects co-financed by Belgian cooperation. This incident was the subject of a collective condemnation by the European Union through a local communiqué of the European Union delegation in Jerusalem. We are now focusing on the introduction of a new collective demand for compensation, within the framework of the West Bank Protection Consortium. That is why I instructed our ambassador in Tel Aviv to join France's approach in the coming days in the company of his colleagues from other member countries of the Consortium. This second joint approach of the Consortium is an important step towards the systematization of the group's protest action and demand for collective compensation addressed to the Israeli authorities. This is a step forward that can be clearly put to the credit of our diplomatic efforts since last summer. We will probably have to continue along this path and discuss with the members of the Consortium what further steps will need to be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u52	Minister, destroying a school is a physical but also a gigantic symbolic violence. The response of European countries which, in one way or another, have participated in joint development cooperation projects in Palestine must be proportionate to the symbolic violence of the IDF gesture. I have heard the details of this umpteenth destruction. This is in fact the third, although it is not the destruction of a direct Belgian project, but rather the indirect one. I congratulate you on how you stand in solidarity with the other European countries that are part of this Consortium and I encourage you to continue. However, Israel is clearly in bad faith. Israel has not answered you and does not seem to be aware of the problem. There is, however, one. I encourage you to stand together and take one more step in the manifestation of bad mood, raising the tone. I believe that a joint and simultaneous convocation of all the ambassadors from all the member countries of this Consortium would be an even stronger diplomatic gesture than what you have already done together. Raising the tone, of course, but doing it together can have an even greater diplomatic impact for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u53	Madam President, Minister, a while ago we visited Israel with a delegation. We visited, among other things, the Yad Vashem Museum, the Holocaust Museum, and met several MPs there. There was, to put it mildly, some concern and criticism about a remarkable initiative by the Polish Senate, which, through its President Karczewski, calls on Polish citizens worldwide to document indications of anti-Polish sentiments or statements that affect Poland's reputation and deliver them to the Polish diplomatic missions. This decision follows the contested Polish Holocaust Act, which punishes all who associate Poland with possible crimes during the Second World War. This naturally fits in with a broader strategy of the Polish Government, which is convinced that the country is under threat and therefore wants to isolate itself from the outside world. Mr Minister, I have two questions about this. Legally, of course, we cannot do anything about this, but in the past our government has been very critical of so-called click lines run by diplomatic posts in our country. We all remember the click lines Turkey set up. Would you like to hear the Polish ambassador on this and what message would you like to send him? How do you assess this new step in which the Polish Government also looks at its diaspora and expats? It's a delicate theme anyway. Could it lead to a possible evolution where discontent is also sown within the Polish community in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u54	Madam President, Mr Luykx, the appeal of Senate President Karczewski to Polish expats is indeed not separate from the reform of The Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. This law was signed by President Duda and sent to the Constitutional Tribunal for constitutional control. That remains to be decided on the constitutionality of the reform. Several vagueness in the law that gave rise to the controversy remains to be clarified. The Belgian embassy in Warsaw is following this case closely and has already had several contacts to assess the scope of the reform. More generally, I share your concern about the call to report anti-Polish sentiments abroad to Polish embassies and consulates abroad. Freedom of expression is a precious asset and no compromises are made in this respect. My services have discussed this issue with the Polish embassy and, according to the embassy, the call is mainly aimed at reporting the erroneous use of the phrase 'Polish death camps'. The embassy states that this practice was already common practice for the Senate President's appeal and adds that it plays its role in bringing about such misunderstandings about Polish history and in the past has been more frequent in this respect. In any case, the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs has no intention of further operationalising Karczewski's appeal and giving the Polish embassies a specific mandate. I have been in contact with my Polish colleague at a bilateral meeting in Brussels. We have both said that a judicial approach to such a declaration makes no sense, but that it is possible to draw attention to such a description of the Polish death camps. I understand the reaction in Poland to this, but it is important to contact a number of people who have used such terminology and not to initiate legal proceedings. I made that clear to my Polish colleague. You know that there are other procedures against Poland at European level, that is another story. Perhaps in the next few weeks, if there is no positive development in the field of justice, we will proceed on the basis of a proposal from the Commission. That is why I have been advocating for more than two years a peer review with all European countries on democracy, human rights and the rule of law. In this respect, I believe that we have responded correctly. So there will be no new measures, but we will follow the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your reassuring reply. This is, of course, not only a semantic story in which expressions such as "Polish Holocaust camps" are used, but it is also a question of not suggesting Poland's possible involvement in the Holocaust. It's up to three years in prison. This brings with it an intimidating effect. People who were involved as victims of the Holocaust must pay attention to what they themselves say about it. This also has an effect on the academics, the writers who have spoken about this in the past. They could now be confronted with their statements if they were not in accordance with this law. So that is a curious thing, and I am glad that you are reacting so critically and consistently to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u56	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Flahaux's 23757 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u57	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, on 25 October 2017, the United Nations published on its website the investigation report transmitted by Judge Othman to Antonio Guterres concerning the suspicious death of Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjöld. In this document, which was discussed at a meeting at the United Nations on 6 December 2017, it is clear that the States concerned – including Belgium – have not made available to the team of investigators relevant declassified documents that would help to shed light on this troubled episode in the history of the international institution and, of course, our country. Contrary to the answer to a written question you have just sent me, the investigation concludes that Belgium has responded to United Nations requests in two phases. As a first step, while the group of experts went to Brussels itself, the various Belgian administrations, coordinated by your services, provided researchers with little information on the whole, from various State departments but not from the State Security. It was only in response to a new written request made by Judge Othman in May 2017, after the latter had received a reply from the Minister of Justice to one of my written questions, that Belgium transmitted 10 new documents of little importance. The Minister of Justice had in fact stated in his answer to my question that if the Sûreté were mobilized by the UN investigators, it would place – I quote – "its archives at the disposal of the research, within the limits of the legal framework". When your services respond for the second time to Judge Othman, on June 15, 2017, they will have followed this legal framework, allowing the State Security to automatically deposit its archives in the General Archives of the Kingdom only after the new 50-year period. This law, passed on 30 March, had been in force for exactly 38 days. Here are my questions, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Firstly, what position did Belgium defend at the meeting on 6 December 2017 at the UN, knowing that Sweden – the homeland of the assassinated secretary-general – was in favour of a new resolution? Has Belgium also been so? Secondly, Chande Othman, the investigating judge, recommends that each of the Member States concerned appoint a high-level independent official to conduct a targeted internal review of the archives of their intelligence, security and defence services, in order to determine whether they still contain relevant information. In response to an oral question I addressed to you on October 18, 2017, you suggested appointing the Archivist General of the Kingdom to that office. Does this person remain suitable for this task, knowing that the new 50-year payment period for the archives of the State Security de facto dispossessed the archivist's ability to assist the United Nations? In the event that the various services of the Belgian State continue to refuse access to relevant archives in this case, could you solemnly declare that Belgium does not have one, as Judge Othman recommends? How do you assess the impact of Belgium's blatant lack of collaboration with UN investigative teams on our country's current campaign to hold a seat on the UN Security Council in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u58	Mr. Hellings, in the light of the efforts made by my department in particular, I would like to begin by saying that I am quite surprised and distressed at the hard work that you are making in criticizing the way in which Belgium is cooperating in the United Nations investigation into the circumstances of the death of Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjöld in 1961. I believe that your rather negative approach to Belgium's attitude is wrong. I've told you and written several times. My services work in good faith with United Nations investigators. Defence and Sûreté are willing to cooperate with my services. The United Nations investigators who arrived in 2015 also visited the General Archives of the Kingdom, where they met with a collaborator of the Archivist General of the Kingdom, who had the opportunity to give them all possible avenues for research. You yourself were received at the archives department of my department. You have had free access to many files and you have had an open telephone interview with the archivist of my department. Finally, the eminent person in charge of the United Nations investigation by the Secretary-General of the United Nations until 2017, Judge Mohamed Chande Othman, himself acknowledges the good cooperation of Belgium. I quote his report of 24 July 2017: "I would like to express to the Member States my gratitude for their cooperation, in particular for the in-depth research they carried out within a particularly short time frame. Overall, the process seems to be moving towards greater transparency, and I thank those Governments that are seeking information on the death of the former Secretary-General and those accompanying him, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 69/246. I would also like to make it clear that I have no intention of giving any negative light to any Member State, but it should be noted that the governments that have cooperated most are also necessarily those that I quote most frequently in the analysis of the new elements collected, because they are generally the source." "I have received responses to my requests for new information from Germany, Belgium, Canada, the United States and the United Kingdom. I am grateful for the assistance I have received, which has enabled me to gather a great deal of new and useful information" (§ 6, page 7). I now quote from § 33, page 20: "I thank Belgium for carrying out this research, for compiling the results and for providing me with further information." Regarding the types of aircraft that may be used in the event of an air attack on the Secretary-General's aircraft, "I have also received new relevant information on this matter from Germany, Belgium, the United States and the United Nations. Finally, I can say that, when I was the leader of the group of independent experts and, during my role as a prominent figure, the group and I were treated in an agreeable and favourable manner by the representatives of the Member States and that the greatest respect was given to the independence of our respective mandates" (§ 155, page 51). I now turn to your specific questions. On 24 December 2017, the United Nations General Assembly adopted, by consensus, a new resolution concerning the investigation into the conditions and circumstances of the tragic death of Dag Hammarskjöld and the persons accompanying him. The resolution calls, inter alia, upon the Secretary-General of the United Nations to renew the eminent person appointed pursuant to General Assembly resolution 71/260, in order to continue to examine possible new information, including from member States, to assess its probative value, to determine the scope of any further investigation and, if possible, to draw conclusions from the investigations already carried out. As with all previous resolutions on this inquiry, Belgium had co-sponsored the draft resolution submitted by Sweden, to express our full support for this approach. With regard to the appointment of an independent high-level official to conduct a targeted review of the archives of the intelligence, security and defence services, my department has contacted Defence and Justice, on which State Security depends. As Mr Othman himself pointed out in his report, it is important that this high-level official should have the necessary authorizations to carry out the examination of the archives mentioned. Consultations between the departments concerned are under way. As I have already told you, the various services of the Belgian State are cooperating in the United Nations investigation. In a historical investigation, on any subject, it is rare for us to say, at some point, that we have examined all the relevant archives. New sources may emerge at a later stage. This is how historical research progresses. You alone speak of "a flagrant lack of cooperation between Belgium and the UN investigative teams". On the contrary, Mr Othman welcomes the cooperation of Belgium, as indicated in his report, which I have quoted from you. In general, Belgium enjoys a favourable image in New York as a reliable, correct and cooperating partner in multilateralism. It is my intention to continue to give access to all the information that will be available to my department or, more broadly, to the whole government, of course in collaboration with my various colleagues who are competent for certain services. You mentioned, among other things, Defence and State Security. The will is to work transparently in an investigation such as that carried out by the United Nations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u59	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answers. You are in charge of coordinating the response given by Belgium and by all its departments (Defence, Foreign Affairs and Justice). You are the guarantor of this, but you are not entirely responsible for any shortcomings in the transfer of service information over which you do not have authority. You are not Minister of Justice or Minister of Defence; you are Minister of Foreign Affairs. I am in no way questioning the effectiveness, competence and good faith of the services you are responsible for. I have measured it myself: they show great efficiency and a true willingness to cooperate. I think your services have provided assistance and received the researchers from the United Nations very correctly. My question is not about that. The fact is that, today, essential data belonging to the State Security and the Army Intelligence Service are, for legal reasons, still made inaccessible to United Nations researchers, researchers in general and the Archivist General of the Kingdom, since the archives of the State Security and the Army Intelligence Service, due to a recently changed legal framework, in full investigation by Judge Othman here in Brussels, will be transferred to the General Archives of the Kingdom after 50 years. So today, de facto, I am not talking about you, but about the Department of Justice, your colleague from Justice who brought this bill, which was also wanted by the State Security, has organized in a way the impossibility of opening the archives of the State Security to the maximum. The Katangian secession concerned some 50 people, a very small world linked to the economic interests of Belgium and its companies at the time, as well as to its military interests. This small world was known to the Belgian intelligence services. And there are obviously documents about this small world in Belgium. Now, more than 55 years after the facts, it takes them to be open. I think the chastised, diplomatic language that is that of Judge Othman is clear. But beyond this chastised language, there is a terrible fact that, today, essential data such as those of the security and intelligence services of the army are not accessible. I hear your opening: the Archivist General of the Kingdom, who would be this interface between the UN and Belgium, could receive maximum security clearances. That's interesting. We cannot change the law again, which was in catini six months ago, despite our opposition. But the fact that the Archivist General of the Kingdom would eventually be allowed access to the State Security archives, which are now classified, would make it possible to advance this important investigation into the suspicious death of the only United Nations Secretary-General who had disappeared during his term of office.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u60	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you about respect for press freedom in Serbia. Serbia is known to be a candidate country for accession to the European Union. In addition, the Serbian Parliament recently adopted a law on the media that adheres to European requirements, but that would delay implementation. For the first time since the fall of MiIosevic, a foreign journalist has been refused a request for a temporary stay. The government justified its refusal by stating that the journalist was too critical of the government as an obstacle to public order and national security. Although his request was finally accepted, this new example tends to show that freedom of the press is still far from effective in Serbia. Many Serbian journalists would also face many physical or verbal threats if they were too critical of the power; Minister, can you tell me what is the status of the procedure for Serbia's accession to the European Union? What is the Belgian position on this? Has the European Union already expressed its concern to Serbia about respect for press freedom?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u61	Minister, freedom of the press is becoming a scarce asset. More and more journalists are being locked up because they are supposed to be spreading fake news. This term is used by quite a few authoritarian leaders to condemn reports that do not please them. The OSCE, and with its representative for freedom of the media, Harlem Désir, intends to address this problem. In addition, it is important that not only countries in the EU but also in the EU's neighbourhood also adhere to freedom of the press, which is not always the case. Especially countries that would like to join the EU in the foreseeable future must comply with the standards. What is the importance of standards on freedom of the press in the current accession procedures and what is the progress of the candidate countries in the Western Balkans in this area? How does our country and the EU contribute to respect for freedom of the press in general, and specifically in the candidate countries of the Western Balkans? How does our country cooperate with the OSCE representative on media freedom in ensuring respect for freedom of the press? What, if any, additional efforts will our country make for the OSCE in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u62	Madam President, Mr Crusnière, Serbia is a candidate country which is currently conducting accession negotiations with the European Union. Twelve of the thirty-five chapters of the acquis communautaire were opened and two provisionally closed. In line with the strategy for enlargement, progress is conditioned by Serbia's progress in reforms relating to the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights, as in the field of press freedom. A crucial condition for the opening of negotiations was the adoption by the Serbian government of action plans for Chapters 23 ("Judicial Apparel and Fundamental Rights") and 24 ("Justice, Freedom and Security"). The European Union expects the Serbian authorities to take appropriate measures to ensure a pluralistic media landscape at the national, regional and local levels. These measures include the adaptation of legislation, but also the adoption of transparent and adequate funding mechanisms. The independence of the media regulator must also be guaranteed, while measures must be taken against intimidation of journalists – a recurring problem in the Western Balkans. These challenges are also reflected in the European Commission's recent communication entitled "A credible enlargement perspective, as well as a strengthened European Union commitment to the Western Balkans". Clear messages are regularly sent by the EU and its Member States, in particular in the context of the institutional dialogue between the Union and Serbia provided for in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. With regard to the case of the Belgian journalist you mentioned in your question, I would point out that this case was closely followed by our embassy in Belgrade. I am glad that he finally won. I would also point out that my department is funding, through its "peace consolidation" budget, a project for an independent Serbian news agency. Belgium considers the promotion of fundamental freedoms within the framework of the third dimension, the human dimension, of the OSCE as a priority. Freedom of the press in all its aspects is an essential part of this. Also within the EU framework, our country traditionally supports the work of the OSCE representative for freedom of the media, both in terms of its mandate, which has been under considerable pressure in recent years, and in terms of the allocation of the necessary financial resources. In the 2018 budget, for the first time in a number of years, he receives a limited increase in his budget. The fight against disinformation, fake news, propaganda and hate speech are among other things the priorities identified by the OSCE representative for media freedom Harlem Désir when he took office. The OSCE mission in Belgrade also has the task, inter alia, of closely monitoring the state of media freedom in Serbia, documenting cases of violation of media freedom, contributing to improving the legal framework for protecting media freedom and organising training sessions for journalists. Our embassy in Belgrade maintains close links both directly and within the EU with the OSCE mission in Belgrade. In reply to Mr Luykx's question, I have already said that a discussion was possible in Sofia and in Gymnich at an informal meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council, in the presence of the candidate countries. We will evaluate country by country, on a case-by-case basis, all possible reforms, especially those relating to human rights, democracy and the various freedoms, such as the freedom of the press, which are very important to us and to other European Member States. Again, it is very important to do so during an accession process, but I think it is equally important to go a step further and also to evaluate during membership of European countries. That is why I have been calling for a peer review of all European Member States on democracy, the rule of law and human rights for over two years now, freedom of the press is one of the most important human rights and freedoms in general. We will continue this approach, as was said a few weeks ago at the informal meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council with all the candidate countries, in Sofia.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u63	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'll meet you. It takes the utmost firmness. In the negotiations too, of course. It is not enough to take a law, but to be able to apply it. We need to be careful about that. This item must remain on the agenda of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u64	Minister, I have already heard part of your point of view in your reply to Mr Luykx's question. As Mr Luykx said, we do indeed believe that the prospect of accession should be kept open. The accession of potential Member States is only possible on the basis of their merits and progress. Preferably, though, we would see that the EU is putting the internal cuisine in order before more people are invited to join us for dinner in that kitchen. The free press is indeed an important pillar of democracy. This applies not only to the free press but also to the free speech of the citizen. That's what dissidence and countersounds are all about. This makes an essential contribution to the public debate. That is why the problem in Serbia, which was also raised by Mr Crusnière, is worrying. This is not only happening in Serbia; similar situations are also happening elsewhere. Moreover, this does not only happen outside the EU, as in Turkey, but even within the EU; think about the murder of the Maltese journalist. We therefore consider it very important to continue to defend freedom of the press and freedom of speech. In the European Community, we are particularly counting on your support and your contribution to this further.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u65	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, the foreign terror fighters represent a huge potential danger for many European countries, including ours, even though the terrorist organization known as the Islamic State has undoubtedly lost military ground in Iraq and Syria. More than 700 names of men and women have, at one time, been recorded in the Belgian database of the jihadists and their close parties in these combat zones. Close monitoring of these people is essential in the current context, even though they are still far from their country of origin, namely ours. I have already asked your colleagues in charge of the Interior and Defence about the same subject. The Minister of Defence did not answer me, but the Minister of the Interior did so by giving me fairly precise figures. So I won't ask you for figures since I already know them. On the other hand, he told me that a number of people are now being held by a particular body, either by the Syrian authorities, by the Iraqi authorities or by Iraqi and Syrian Kurdish groups. Are there any discussions with these different entities and/or governments to deal with the cases of these individuals? If so, who is in charge of these talks? Do bodies located in Belgium or abroad dependent on the FPS Foreign Affairs play a role in these exchanges? To be very clear, we are talking about the follow-up of these people. I am not asking you directly or indirectly to return to our country. I also do not ask for diplomatic protection. Let's be clear!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u66	Mr Hellings, I had no intention of blaming you! As you said, the Minister of the Interior has given the consolidated figures of the OCAM. So I won't repeat them. With regard to the location of foreign fighters, and indeed their relatives, including their partners, their children, either from Belgium to Syria or Iraq, or born there, as is the case with a number of them, we first try to see whether the information disseminated is accurate. You're asking about the contacts you made. There is no systematic contact with the organizations you mentioned. However, we had some contact with Iraq because the Iraqi ambassador had made statements announcing the presence of 500 Belgians. A few hours later, it was about a hundred. And a few more hours later, we didn't know if there was any. I think it is important, in this case, to check whether there is a real basis for information. We are obviously ready to try to see, with a number of partners in the region but also international, whether we can collect precise information on the presence and especially on the location, as you said, since numbers of presence on the ground have been given to you. Another thing is to accurately locate the places where these people are located. For the time being, work is being done within the National Security Council to determine what procedures can be used, in some cases, on the return of course. I take the example of the children born there. These are between 0 and 6 years old. This situation does not pose a particular security problem, except for the monitoring of their situation, which is done with the Communities for the returns that have already taken place. And then we look, category by category, how to react. You know that for a number of people who have returned home, for two thirds of those who have returned, it is a judicial follow-up. They are currently incarcerated. The figures have been communicated to us by the OCAM. We must also work with our European colleagues on best practices for the future. I have already talked about this at the United Nations level because we have been involved, from the outset, in programmes concerning children in armed conflict. Of course, everyone has in mind the presence of children in armed conflict in Africa. There are some in other parts of the world, but in our interventions it is often in Africa. For the first time, we are directly concerned with the possible return to our territory of adolescents or young people who have been able to participate in armed conflicts. Some of them have been victims. Some of them attended. Others may have been involved in serious crime, war and even terrorism in theatre. I will ask Virginia Gamba, who is now in charge of this United Nations Office for Children and Armed Conflict, to look at what work we could do together. The United Nations may also have the capacity to help with how to deal with this situation. These are the different elements on which we are working. It is obvious – and that is why I was quoting you from the National Security Council – that for those who would be detained or possibly prosecuted in these countries – I am thinking mainly of Iraq now and probably Syria tomorrow but we are not yet in this case – will raise the problem of work and collaboration mainly with the federal prosecutor's office, which is in charge of a number of investigations. It will indicate whether measures or initiatives need to be taken. This is a debate you will probably have with the Minister of Justice. In the area of human rights, which is much discussed in our committee, we will probably be questioned if there are risks of death sentences. I recall that Belgium is in favour of the abolition of the death penalty and calls for the non-execution of sentences. I will be delighted to see generous and broad support, as I have seen in other cases, when we face a possible death sentence for a foreign fighter who has committed abominable acts on Iraqi or Syrian territory. We may one day have to hold this debate, but personally, I maintain the position I stand for in all the issues we are facing. Here's what I can tell you right now. It is clear that the work will be fine-tuned with the Departments of Justice and the Interior on how to deal with the different types of cases we might face. However, the first problem remains to be able to collect information on the location, which we do not yet have in a very precise way, despite the figures given.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u67	Minister, thank you for your sensible and nuanced answer. I am sensitive to your approach, which seems good to me, and I say it without ambiguity. The issue of the plight of children and some partners, especially women, needs our full attention. These are children sometimes born in Syria and who do not have Belgian nationality, having been born in a foreign country, whose parents have often committed irreparable acts. I have heard that you pay special attention to children who do not have to pay for the turpitudes of their parents. As for partners, especially for women, a nuanced response must be provided. It is obvious that some of these women will have to go through the justice box even here in Belgium. I believe that they can make amends to be honourable by holding the Belgian courts accountable and then resume a path of integration. This will be addressed on a case-by-case basis. The work will be very delicate and the use of UN services is sensible because the answers we can provide as a Belgian authority can be used by countries such as Denmark. I wish you a good job in the shade and respect for the future of these young people who have nothing to do with this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u68	Minister, Congo has been constantly discussed in our committee in recent years. The situation is quite difficult in several areas, especially for the citizens. The United Nations is also once again alarming the humanitarian situation. Firstly, in response to your statement at the Foreign Affairs Council on 22 January, the EU High Representative, Ms Mogherini, proposed to discuss the situation in the DRC in greater depth at the next Foreign Affairs Council at the end of February. Is that how it happened? What was the outcome of that meeting? Secondly, what is the state of play between the DRC and Belgium? How do you estimate the temperature? Are the relationships still very tense at the moment or has something changed? Finally, at the committee meeting on 7 February, you said that you had asked your special envoy to undertake a mission in the region in order to identify possible partnerships and to deepen them. Is that what happened? Which partners did the Special Envoy speak to? In short, what was the result of that shipment?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u69	Minister, last Sunday there were the demonstrations of the Laïc de Coordination Committee, a Catholic layman's organisation. The police did not shy away from the use of tear gas and bullets, and according to the UN there were two deaths, one in Kinshasa and one in Mbandaka, and 47 wounded. In addition to police and judicial repression, Minister of the Interior Henry Mova called the CLC, the organiser of the demonstrations, a terrorist organisation. In the meantime, judicial arrest warrants were issued against the leaders of the CLC. According to the UN, the police also made 100 arrests. The role of the youth department of government party PPRD is also striking. It acts like a kind of militia and threatened the members of the CLC prior to the demonstrations. This type of incident is expected to occur more frequently in the case of aid organisations. The demonstrations have been successful and hundreds of people are on the streets each time. The response of the regime is always the same, namely repression. Minister, how do you respond to the repression and the statements of Minister of the Interior Henry Mova? How do you respond to the large-scale arrests of CLC members and Congolese citizens after the demonstrations? What does that mean for the safety of Congolese organisations? How can we ensure through diplomatic channels that the rights of organisers of demonstrations and protesting Congolese are safeguarded? What position will the protection of citizens from repression take in the new priorities of the extended mandate of MONUSCO? What analysis do you make of the role of the youth department of PPRD in threatening demonstrators and supporting the police in arrests?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u70	Minister, I think we will still have an opportunity to debate the elections in the DRC for a long time. Of course, it is always interesting to take stock regularly with you. The situation remains a matter of concern. I will not repeat everything that has been said about the various demonstrations. My main question was about the aid and the decision – which I endorse – that you and your cooperation colleague made to reorient part of the aid from the bilateral cooperation of the Congo. It was already a few weeks ago that reflection was under way on how and when to redistribute this aid. I wanted to take stock of that. However, I would like to add two elements, even if they are not included in my question. No doubt you will be able to answer, because you know the situation very, very well! I would like to take stock of the diplomatic relations between the two countries. Have they been revived? Have you had any new contacts with your colleague from Foreign Affairs, since the last events, the closure of the Schengen House, etc. One last thing concerns me. I have been in contact with some parliamentarians and members of the opposition of the DRC. A new controversy is now emerging on the voting machine. Indeed, a presentation was made by CENI and it was criticized from the outset. The problem is that, according to CENI, if we do not choose this voting machine, we will move back to the paper system, that the organisation of elections will take much more time. And they're already starting to talk about a postponement, a first excuse. I'd like to hear your views on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u71	Minister, I join my colleagues' questions but would like to add a question on the increasing use of militias in the repression of demonstrations. This is a particular concern, because it reminds us of other militias used in other situations in Central Africa. This recalls the use made of Interahamwe. Initially, it is thought to be part of the usual level of violence; in fact, it is an additional step. You will certainly have noticed it at the last demonstrations. Gradually, governors or the Minister of the Interior resort to militias. This was the case, for example, on 25 February, with the militia of the governor of eastern Kasai. Under the misleading name of "Corps des activists de la paix", this body would consist of (I quote) "2000 workers" who are used in particular as "labour force for the construction of infrastructure but also to support law enforcement forces in anticipating possible security threats and strengthening peacemaking". These formulations obviously do not deceive anyone and can only cause us concern about the risk of increasingly brutal violence against Congolese people who dare to remind Kabila of all his unfulfilled promises. Are you aware of the increasing use of these militias, the seriousness of the situation and the concern of the Congolese population in this regard? What reactions are possible in Belgium and at European level to try to avoid further escalations and slippages in the Congo? What could this constitute in terms of widespread violence, more or less in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u72	Madam President, I would like to thank Members of Parliament for their questions on the security situation, the tense political situation and our bilateral relations with the DRC. You know that I follow the situation closely and that the government is united, in line with the very broad consensus that exists in this House. I recall that the situation is complicated from a political point of view, pending elections to be held in 2016. It is especially so, for a large part of the Congolese population, in humanitarian terms. It is also so in terms of security, as incidents have increased in recent weeks in several parts of the country. It is true that the use of young activists and even militias requires our full attention. Together with our international partners, we are very concerned about the death of at least two people on 25 February in Kinshasa and Mbandaka, during the marches organized by the secular coordinating committee, which is a peaceful movement. That is the message I made in Geneva at the Human Rights Council, where we sit with the Democratic Republic of the Congo. These incidents took place despite instructions allegedly given to the security forces to exercise the utmost restraint in the management of demonstrations and assurances of a "zero-death" operation announced by the authorities. The observation teams of the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO) also reported 47 injuries and over one hundred and twenty arrests throughout the country. As during the 31 December and 21 January marches, we strongly condemn the violence committed by the security forces against peaceful citizens. We also deplore the hard calls of the red berets – in other words, the PPRD youth. The use of such actors to counter peaceful demonstrations is to be condemned and involves the responsibility of those who participate in it. We call on the Congolese authorities to conduct credible investigations into these incidents, to listen to the United Nations Human Rights Office and to take appropriate sanctions. During my recent visit to New York, I had the opportunity to reiterate to the United Nations authorities that MONUSCO and the Human Rights Office continue to identify more serious incidents and events in the Congo, so that we can monitor the situation closely through institutions that are considered neutral and impartial. Beyond the violence perpetrated, Belgium and its international partners continue to exert their influence in order to ensure the full implementation of the descriptor measures. These may include the release of all political prisoners, the end of unjustified legal proceedings against, inter alia, members of the CLC, the end of the duplication of political parties, the traditional system of creating doubles in the organization of parties, the reopening of the closed media, and the freedom of peaceful assembly and demonstration, in accordance with the Congolese people's right to freedom of expression and the right to demonstrate peacefully. The objective must be to organize credible elections in the DRC in 2018. There are still doubts about the willingness to organise these elections in a calm climate. Violence cannot be used as a pretext to delay the electoral process once again. On the contrary, this violence reminds us of the need for the DRC to have a government from credible elections capable of resolving in a lasting way the many problems facing the country. We call on all Congolese political actors to play a constructive role in holding good elections, to prepare for a peaceful alternation in power and to continue to consolidate stability in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Together with all regional, European and international partners, we encourage a peaceful exit from the crisis. My special envoy returns from a tour in the region (Angola, African Union, Uganda, Rwanda and South Africa). There seems to be a strong convergence on the substance: the desire to hold elections before the end of the year in accordance with the Constitution, the demand to be part of the agreement of the Saint-Sylvestre and the need to take descriptor measures. I myself intend to address the situation at the forthcoming Foreign Affairs Councils of the European Union. We have frequent exchanges on this subject with our European partners. The European Union is acting in a concerted and mutually supportive manner, and must continue to do so. With regard to the United Nations, the question of the role of MONUSCO in the protection of urban populations increasingly affected by violence and repression was even more important. We will pay close attention to the resolution on the mandate of MONUSCO to be adopted by the Security Council at the end of this month. I have already insisted that MONUSCO and the Human Rights Office continue to make a very accurate record of the more serious incidents or acts committed in the territory of the Congo. Similarly, I had asked for a debate on the situation in the DRC at a forthcoming Foreign Affairs Council. Mr Luykx, Mrs Mogherini said it would be possible around Easter. We will have a specific debate and the necessary contacts with all the partners have been made in this respect. I have also been in contact with the United States representative at the United Nations, Mrs Nikki Haley, on other dossiers but also on the DRC dossier. We're on the same page. We must not only establish a process leading to elections in 2018 but also create the possibility of developing a number of measures to ensure the correct participation of all actors in the elections, for example by the release of a number of detainees and a possible return of a number of opponents to the DRC. Let me also briefly review the security situation in different provinces. In the eastern part of the country, in the province of Ituri, intercommunal violence between Lendu and Hema follows one another, following the incidents of December 2017. I am deeply shocked by last Thursday's attack on women and children, according to MONUSCO. In addition to the attacks, over the past several weeks there have been reports of burning houses and houses, forced displacement and sexual violence against women. We support MONUSCO's appeal to the authorities to promptly investigate this attack and to ensure that justice is fully done, as it is important that there be no impunity for those who committed these attacks. There are also conflicts in other provinces, such as in North and South Kivu, Tanganyika and Maniema, with dramatic humanitarian consequences. The Kasaï Provinces also continue to be plagued by violence. The dynamics are often ethnically inspired, but the motivations are also often related to power and financial interests. For us, the international community must give priority to the protection of citizens and the humanitarian consequences of the conflicts. Five years after the signing of Addis Ababa's Framework Agreement, it is high time to tackle the root cause of these conflicts. On 13 April, in Geneva, a first international donor conference for the DRC will be organized to raise funding for humanitarian actions in the country. Belgium has strengthened its humanitarian commitment and made other donors aware of the situation. I'm going to bilateral relations. As you know, whenever there is a major political crisis in the Congo, it complicates bilateral relations with Belgium. Our relations are obviously complicated because there has been a crisis since 2016 in Congo. As I announced earlier with the Minister for Development Cooperation, Belgium decided on 10 January to refocus one quarter of the available resources from governmental cooperation to humanitarian aid, cooperation with social associations and to universities and scientific institutions. The aim of the reorientation was to better respond to the very high humanitarian needs, the difficult domestic political context and problems of governance. The other ongoing programme "Supports' (EUR 70 million) will continue to be implemented. Minister De Croo will be able to explain this to you. In response, the Congolese Government announced a number of measures concerning the Schengen House, Enabel, Brussels Airlines and the consulates-general in Lubumbashi and Antwerp. We regret this, because Belgium is not in favour of an escalation. In the meantime, we continue to consult with the DRC at the level of our advisors. We also invited our fellow Members to Brussels to a thorough review of bilateral relations. I know that Members also have regular contacts, which is a good thing. For us, it is particularly important to reduce the negative impact of the measures on the population. Of course, a better political climate in Congo itself would also contribute to better relations with our country. We have therefore reminded the Congolese authorities – and I have had my counterpart the Minister of Foreign Affairs online – that we want contacts to take place – there have been in Kinshasa, I hope there will also be contacts in Brussels – between representatives of the various departments involved in our bilateral relations to see how to organize relations throughout this period. We will continue to follow the entire electoral process. The debate on the voting machine was a little worrying, in particular because one of the possible origins of the machine was China. I do not have the memory of the country's very great electoral expertise, as we see it in our country at any rate. You never know: I've seen Chinese workers build mosques all over the world, why not voting machines? We would prefer to continue to practice more traditional methods before embarking on operations like this. There was a real concern, which had been communicated to the Independent National Electoral Commission (CENI), in that regard. We will also follow the humanitarian situation and the security situation in parallel, as there is work in which the United Nations mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO) must be able to play a role. I have already said that our attention is also focused on the definition of a new mandate or an amended mandate for the MONUSCO. The problem arises in several regions and provinces in the Democratic Republic of Congo. So it is not a problem that is confined to a particular place, but rather a general problem. That is why we are following very closely the definition of this new mandate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u73	Minister, you have provided a lot of elements, for which I am grateful. I confine my reply to the following elements. Firstly, on the organisation of elections. Democracy is, of course, more than just the holding of elections. This will not provide a blissful solution to all the problems in Congo. However, pyramidal work must be carried out. There's a long way to go. The elections must therefore certainly be held, but they do not, of course, solve the problems in Congo. Secondly, I think that the position you continue to take, particularly in order to move things at European level, is very sensible. I also find it reassuring that we are not isolated in that European story. After all, Congo sometimes gave the impression of wanting to push us into a corner. The united European lever is therefore very important. Finally, perhaps we should frame the problem throughout the region. I am thinking of our attitude towards Burundi and Rwanda, the current President of the African Union. We must remain coherent and not underestimate the interaction. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u74	Madam President, Minister, the situation has only become more dramatic since 2016. There is a division and control policy with repressive techniques that are becoming increasingly dangerous. Milities, trained from abroad, use these techniques to dive the demonstrations. The whole country's getting involved. In all provinces they try to use rebels to turn people against each other. It is therefore very complicated to take action. That is a very difficult task for Belgian diplomacy. Doing something evokes counter-reactions, doing nothing is actually worse. If something is done and there is a counter-reaction, then we must wake up the international community so that it realizes how serious it is in Congo. Only the closure of the Schengen House has brought the European Union back into line. Doing something, diplomatic or bilateral, may call for certain actions that concern the international community. I would therefore venture to go further along this road. This path is characterised by consultation, coordinated action at European level, investigation by the United Nations Office and, above all, by a clearer and stronger role for MONUSCO, in order to reduce the security of organisations and citizens. This should enable action to be taken against the militias that are now everywhere. In the context of the humanitarian crisis, we must keep a close eye on the situation and continue to make the necessary resources available through humanitarian organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u75	I thank the Minister for his full response. We must not forget that in all this, unfortunately, it is the population that is the first victim of the political, economic or security situation. It is therefore first of all the people that we must think about and support. This must also be done through cooperation. I understand, of course, what you have said about the redefinition of our bilateral cooperation, a redefinition that I also support. We need to keep the pressure on. Elections must be organized; first and foremost, a postponement must be avoided. Now that a timetable exists – even if we can regret the delay too long – we must make every effort to ensure that it is respected. Even though the signals are alarming, such as the problem of this voting machine, the President of CENI, at one of our last meetings, told me that, according to him, it was possible to organise the elections within three to four months. Of course, he was not talking about a voting machine, he was talking about a paper vote. Now that the census has been completed, nothing can stand in the way of the organization of the elections. We must take it to its own game in this respect and maintain the pressure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u76	Thank you, Minister, for your response and your involvement in this matter. I would just like to reiterate my concern about the emergence of these militias, whether in Eastern Kasai or Central Kasai, whether it be the Peace Activist Corps, the Bana Mura militias or the Red Berets in Kinshasa. All this is a new step. I think it is necessary to think about sending a very clear message to these governors and political actors who are forming militias, saying that they could, if necessary, be held accountable for violence before the international justice system. On the other hand, I would argue that they should be added to the list of those who are subject to sanctions by the European Union. We must try to stop this new movement, this new escalation, and prevent it from spreading very quickly. The fact that other people are being targeted for such violence may be a sign that the army and the police would be less inclined to exercise them towards the population. Our reaction must be very, very strong, if we do not want to see them take on a completely different dimension than the one we know today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u77	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Flahaux's 23904 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u78	Minister, on 25 September 2017, the Kurdish regional government organised a unilateral referendum on the independence of the Kurdish region of Iraq, with a large majority voting for independence. Both Baghdad and Western countries asked Erbil not to organise such a referendum. As a countermeasure, the Iraqi Government has suspended flights to and from Kurdistan and the Iraqi army has taken strategic points around Kirkuk. Our country, as well as the EU, has always advocated a constructive dialogue between Baghdad and Erbil in order to find a solution to the situation. At the end of last year, the President of the Kurdish regional government, Massoud Barzani, resigned and was succeeded by his cousin Nechirvan Barzani who wanted to negotiate with the Iraqi authorities to get out of the impasse. The Kurdish regional government also wants to be within the legal framework. It thus recognises the ruling of the Iraqi Federal Supreme Court, which declared the referendum unconstitutional. France would welcome the démarche to negotiate the Kurdish regional government and would like to take up a role as a broker in order to find a solution in the dispute. Minister, what is the state of play in the negotiations to resolve the situation between Baghdad and Erbil? What is Belgium's position on the requested negotiations and the recognition by the Kurdish regional government of the ruling of the Iraqi Federal Supreme Court? Has Belgium joined France's démarches and also taken steps to resolve the dispute between Baghdad and Erbil?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u79	Mr Van Peteghem, Belgium is a strong supporter of negotiations between Baghdad and Erbil. Belgium believes that the long-standing dispute between the central Iraqi government and the Iraqi Kurds can only be resolved through talks. Both parties must resolve the dispute together. Unilateral steps are not appropriate in that situation. That is why our country is satisfied that the Kurds themselves have distanced themselves from the referendum. The contacts between the two parties continue. However, the parties were not yet able to announce a breakthrough. There remain some issues, such as the size of the transfers from Baghdad to the Kurdish government. Nor are negotiations easy in the run-up to the parliamentary elections in Iraq. Furthermore, the fight against terrorism remains an important commitment for Iraq and for the international community. In order to be and remain successful, Baghdad and Erbil, supported by the coalition against Daesh, must work together. Belgium continues to defend the principle of negotiations between the central Iraqi government and the Iraqi Kurds in its diplomatic action and in solidarity with the coalition's partners against Daesh. Our country also advocates reconciliation and rapprochement in Iraq, as it did at the International Conference on Reconstruction, which was held in Kuwait between 12 and 14 February 2018. With regard to the various initiatives taken by France or by other countries, we are always prepared to support initiatives which can go in this direction. We are working for a genuine negotiation process between Baghdad and Erbil, but also for an inclusive government in Baghdad, with an evolution in all parts of the Iraqi community, which, finally, should lead to a possible reconstruction of Iraq. It is also useful that we are making these efforts in Iraq now, now that there is a certain stabilisation in the area of security. In Syria, that is still very difficult. We are calling for humanitarian interventions there, before there can be a real reconstruction. In Iraq, however, we are active in various areas. We want a negotiation process between both partners, Baghdad and Erbil, but also an inclusive process in Baghdad for the formation of a government and for the management of the whole country. We also want a real reconstruction of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I believe that it is indeed a good thing that the Kurdish regional government has once again placed itself within the legal framework and is trying to enter into negotiations. I therefore welcome your support for France's démarche and your support for the reconstruction and further development of these relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u81	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 23913 and 23943 by Mr Flahaux are converted into written questions. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 23948 and 23950 by Mr Pehliv were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u82	Minister, Burundi is another country in which things are very difficult in many areas, both humanitarian and political. The United Nations issued a critical report on the situation at the beginning of February. In response, the government in Burundi even organised a demonstration against the UN on 10 February. The situation in Burundi was on the Security Council's agenda on 26 February. Meanwhile, the process of constitutional change in Burundi continues. A referendum is scheduled for this in March. The registration of voters started on 8 February, but field workers report that voters who want to register are threatened and put under pressure. Leaders of civil society are banned. Since December 2017, more than 60 members of the opposition have been arrested. Violence also persists. According to the International Federation of Human Rights, approximately 1 200 people have been killed since June 2017, 400 to 900 have been forced to move and several cases of torture have been reported. Already 400 000 Burundians are on the run according to the High Commissioner for Refugees. Furthermore, the government is increasing taxes to finance the elections by 2020. The agricultural sector, a vital sector in the Burundian economy, is hit hard. Production decreased by 25% since 2015, increasing hunger. That is indeed a dramatic situation, both politically and humanitarianly. Firstly, what is your analysis of the evolution of the constitutional change? What steps have you taken to combat the repression of the opposition and the violation of democracy through diplomatic channels? Secondly, what was discussed in the UN Security Council about the situation in Burundi? Will measures be taken? Is the situation there also on the European agenda? If so, what is the European position vis-à-vis recent developments? Finally, what possible partners do you see in the region to protect the rights of the Burundian citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u83	Mrs Van Hoof, it was not easy to find a solution to the political crisis in Burundi, and the constitutional reform is making it even more difficult. The majority of the opposition in exile and the more than 400 000 refugees in the surrounding countries are not involved. The review process is not free either. We received reports of forced registrations and arrests by the government of dozens of opponents under the pretext that those involved campaigned against the constitutional proposals. The proposals are also sensitive, because institutional provisions are being revised. The ethnic balances are maintained, but a number of functions are removed and the majorities are adjusted, which reinforces the dominance of the ruling party. The situation in Burundi is currently under discussion in the United Nations. Secretary-General António Guterres published a strong report on Burundi on 6 February and special envoy of the Secretary-General Michel Kaphando criticised the Burundian authorities during a briefing in the Security Council on 26 February. A statement by the Presidency of the Security Council is currently being negotiated. Hopefully that will come out of a powerful text. UN sanctions are not yet under discussion, partly because of the opposition of two permanent members. At European level, I would like to refer to a letter sent by the High Representative of the EU, Mrs Mogherini, and Commissioner Mimica to President Nkurunziza on 22 February, stating that the so-called Article 96 decisions remain in force. This raises concerns about the forthcoming constitutional revision, which threatens to oppose the Arusha agreement. The European External Action Service expressed this concern publicly in December. The East African Community announced at the recent summit on 23 February that it would continue its mediation. A meeting, organised by the facilitator, is scheduled for April. I hope that this is accompanied by a strong commitment from countries in the region. The involvement of the African Union and the UN remains fundamental. Other African countries can also play an important role. I am thinking in particular of South Africa, which is one of the guarantors of the Arusha agreement. As far as the role of Belgium is concerned, we continue to do everything we can to keep Burundi on the agenda of the international community, which is not easy because of the many other crises. I systematically come back to the situation in Burundi during international contacts and multilateral fora, recently in Geneva within the framework of the Human Rights Council. Burundi, however, is increasingly a closed country, with fewer and fewer opportunities to really influence the ongoing processes. I repeat our view that the involvement of the African Union, regional organisations and the countries of the region will enable a solution to be found in accordance with the principles of the Arusha Agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u84	Minister, I agree with your approach. The referendum is scheduled for March, so in the meantime something must be done at international level. I hope that the UN declaration is strong enough, but I hear that two permanent members, probably neighbouring countries, are working against it. In any case, we must remain alert and look at how to react week after week, because the amendment of the constitution would indeed upset the ethnic balance. Those are dangerous situations. Burundi may be a closed country, but its inhabitants and refugees must not suffer. I therefore encourage you to ensure that strong action is taken by the international community, both the UN, the European Union and the neighbouring African countries. It seems a little strange to me that the neighbouring countries will not take steps until April, when the referendum will be held in March. It would be better if they took a stronger position more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic838x.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister had indicated that he could stay until 6 p.m. The rest of the questions were postponed to the next meeting.
