ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u2	Minister, the reform of unemployment, part of our work deal in the Summer Agreement, must become an important lever in our fight against labour shortages. We are assuming two principles for this. First of all, there is the strengthening of the insurance principle, which increases benefits first, and then, although faster than before, activates the jobseekers concerned through the incentive of a lower benefit. That principle works, as we see in the countries around us. The opinion expressed by some economists does not contradict that principle either. They did come to a different conclusion. In their view, we should start with lower benefits, which can be increased as time goes on. We do not think that is the right way forward, Minister. Start activating if the person who needs to be activated knows that his benefit increases as he waits longer. As far as we are concerned, we fully support the federal government's decision, namely to strengthen the insurance principle and then to reduce benefits more quickly. My questions to you are very simple. Are you, like us, convinced that we made the right choice? Will you also ensure that the reform is implemented quickly as a trade minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u3	Minister, last week I was here to question you about the evolution of the employment deal. You stated that you were aiming at the end of the year to get the employment deal in the government, together with the governments involved, to be implemented. A very important element of the employment deal is the review of the degressivity of unemployment benefits. Moreover, for the sake of clarity, ladies and gentlemen, the degressivity of unemployment benefits is nothing new. The previous government has already decided on this. The aim now is to go a little further in this respect, with a higher benefit at the beginning, after which one looks at how to strengthen the activation of the benefit. That's under investigation. We need to outline the history of this, Minister. It was Professor Stijn Baert who came up with that idea at some point. You then asked for information about this and that is how it ended up in the labour deal. At the beginning of this week, some fifteen economists contested that principle. They refer to the Swedish model. I must say, however, that it is difficult to break up with them on the basis of their opinion, what they are actually saying. They seem to argue that unemployment benefits should be of indefinite duration and refer to Sweden, whereas that is not the case at all. So I don't understand that equation at all. In fact, we are the only country where unemployment benefits are still unlimited in time. We need to see how we can implement more active policies with benefits. If I have understood the opinion of the economists in question correctly, they say that degressivity is indeed activating. At the end of the opinion paper there is a passus on the increase in benefit, which should also be there, which is something special. In any case, Minister, you yourself put on the table the proposal for further degressivity based on studies by Ghent University. My question is to what extent you will continue to support this. Will you implement that proposal? Can we expect the new implementation of degressivity to become one of the 28 measures in the deal that you will consistently implement, without being distracted by such opinions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u4	Minister, you made a deal last summer to reform the degressivity of unemployment. I have already told you that I am absolutely opposed to this measure, because I think it is a very antisocial measure. Mr Lachaert will help you to get there very quickly, but for all I know, you can wait a long time. The opinion quoted shows that jobseekers will not be helped more quickly by the reforms you will be implementing. However, I would also like to talk to you today about poverty. The fact that 49% of the jobseekers are facing a risk of poverty today should ring a bell to you. Minister, you say you will reform. On TV, Mr Ducarme stated that it was aware that the amount of benefit was very low and that the social partners would be asked whether the lowest unemployment benefits could be raised through the welfare envelope. Very soon thereafter, Minister Jambon contradicts this: the decision would not have been taken, unemployment benefits will be higher and then fall more rapidly in the first period after losing work, and minimum benefits will not be reduced or reduced. My questions are therefore very simple, Minister. What did you agree to last summer? Are you prepared to step down from that? After all, you also concluded other agreements last summer, which will not be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u5	I thought I answered those questions last week, but I will repeat what I said last week. Maybe it wasn't entirely clear. We've made a decision. I would like to repeat briefly for you the main lines of the reform of the unemployment system which we have agreed. Firstly, a very important element is making benefits more active, so that more unemployed people are encouraged to take up a job. Secondly, the increase in benefits in an initial period of unemployment and the strengthening of degressivity in a second period. There has been a lot of reaction to this measure. I will come back to the academic aspect, but the ratio legis or the basis for it is that we assume that in a digitised economy it will happen more quickly that someone temporarily loses his job. We want the person concerned to receive, during the temporary loss of his job, a replacement income that is high enough and that, given the vacancies available, he or she will find a new job very quickly. That is the intention of this measure. We want the fall of income to be reduced to a reasonable level in an initial period. Thirdly, maintaining the amount of the flat-rate unemployment benefit at the current level, with the possibility of increasing these advances in the context of the use of the welfare envelope. That was an explicit question from Mrs Kitir. Finally, there is the maintenance of unemployment benefits, unlimited in time and without means test. That's agreed. We will introduce the reform gradually from 2019. Of course, the social partners will be involved in the dossier through the Management Committee of the RVA. Those are the guidelines we have decided on. What's the status? I'll repeat it again. The FOD WASO, the RVA and my cabinet are in the process of formulating and developing proposals. Of course, the academic world has been contacted. We have even been in contact with Professor Spinnwine and Professor Baert. I must honestly admit that there are opposing views on this, but that is the case both in the academic world and in politics. We look at all the visions. When we come out with concrete proposals in November 2018, we assume that it is right to list the arguments of the academics and to add answers and arguments. Of course, I do not want to anticipate that exercise that we are working on. However, I would like to say what Mr Lachaert has just said, namely that, compared with Sweden, mediation services are fundamentally different, education levels and training efforts are higher, and employment and unemployment rates vary considerably. These are just a few elements which indicate that the Swedish model cannot be applied to the Belgian situation. I believe that Professor Spinnewijn's proposal, which is a reduction in unemployment benefit in an initial period and an increase in unemployment benefit in a second period, cannot be applied to the Belgian model. However, I also believe that we should look at this whole reform from the point of view of the activation of the unemployed. I would also like to point out that in the employment deal we are also taking measures to encourage the unemployed to follow training, especially for filling in bottlenecks. I have already discussed this with colleagues from the Regions, so that the royal decree can be completed as soon as possible. I come to my conclusions. Firstly, the unemployment system is and remains essential to provide those who are out of work with a replacement income that should allow them to live a decent life and not to end up in poverty. Mrs Kitir, that is a concern we share. I have already mentioned in previous debates that the degressivity of unemployment benefits is not new. After all, the previous government also adjusted unemployment benefits progressively over time. I can quote a number of quotes, which I do not have with me at the moment. It remains very important to reduce poverty. Secondly, we want to involve the unemployed more actively. Thirdly, consultation with the regions is very important because they have powers of mediation and training. Fourthly, a contribution from the academic world is, of course, welcome. We will organise a wide consultation and then we will put all the arguments with text and explanations on the table in this hemisphere. After the discussion we will ask for the approval of this assembly. Finally, I would like to quote the following passage from Mrs Kitir's question: 'The unemployment benefit in the third period will at least be retained and increased if it is lower than the minimum level of living. The use of the welfare envelope should as far as possible avoid the emergence of new unemployment traps."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. If the difference between today's pay and tomorrow's pay is reduced every day, then triggering of course becomes a mission impossible. I am therefore very pleased to hear you say that you see this in the context of the activation of job seekers. You are having a wide consultation and I believe that this is a good thing. For us, however, it remains important that we continue to focus primarily on dealing with the shock of loss of income and strengthening the insurance principle. After that, however, a quick stimulus must follow. The Swedish study also says that this incentive works to activate people more quickly. Well, that's exactly what the degressivity will do. We're following you all the way. For us, this is a reform that fits within a more global activating dismissal right. We have already taken other measures, such as the compulsory registration of jobseekers within the month after service of the notice, and so on. This also fits perfectly within the policy of this government. An active dismissal right distinguishes this federal government from its predecessors. That is the path we continue to follow together.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u7	Minister, I think we agree that the situation in Sweden is not comparable to the situation in our country. There is a completely different system and it is very difficult, even for academics, to compare what is going on here and what is going on there. In the end, there must be no contradiction, Mrs Kitir, with what we want to achieve. The unemployment benefit system is there to protect people who lose their jobs. We must do this properly, and we must ensure that their benefits are good enough, but that there really is an incentive to get to work as quickly as possible. To this end, exactly all the measures contained in the employment deal: the accelerated registration with the VDAB when a person is given notice, faster guidance by the regional employment services, and also penalties, if necessary. When one sees that one does not try, there is effective that stick. Poverty is our common concern. But you will only be able to fight poverty, Mrs Kitir, if you ensure that the employment rate is sufficiently high in this country. If we had the same level of effectiveness as the Netherlands, our budget would be in order. We would then have a surplus and money left to increase pensions and benefits. Well, that's something we're arguing for. People don't build social paradise in an economic cemetery. It is therefore necessary to implement this measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have listened carefully to you, but also to your coalition partners. For one, this is a stepping stone, the other sees it as a financial incentive to activate the unemployed. That's what I heard from your mouth. But, Minister, you want a financial incentive to help job seekers get to work, while there are 50+ who send out 100 applications but do not get opportunities, and there are people with ethnic roots who do not get opportunities. Do you really believe that this financial incentive will be the solution that will help all job seekers? There is indeed a need for a global approach, Minister. If we want to tackle it globally, we must invest in training and not take the people at their weakest point, namely their unemployment benefit. People work and contribute, the unemployment benefit is an insurance for when one loses one's job. No one has a guarantee that he'll never lose his job. Nobody. That is when people must be assured. If they are to be strengthened, they must invest in training. That's what you don't do. You're laughing, but I don't think it's funny at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u9	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, the Confederation of Construction is now sounding the alarm in the press. Your government's famous measure to exempt taxes and social security contributions from supplementary monthly benefits of EUR 500 leads to unfair competition but also to difficulties in providing overtime benefits on weekends, as workers are more likely to work in this context for individuals rather than for their businesses. Is that amazing? Not at all! This perverse effect was expected. We have given you ample and sufficient warning here, but you may have little interest in the opposition's statements. Very important sectors, a large number of actors had already sounded the alarm in good time, i.e. long before the law was passed. You didn't want to hear anything. You will probably repeat that the law contains safeguards and safeguards. You made us many promises. However, these were very light. First of all because the safeguards in the law were bogus, largely insufficient. The evidence today, as the construction sector directly demonstrates what was planned. Deputy Prime Minister, I hope you don't stand up. The situation is sufficiently worrying. We have to react. The worst would be to wait for it to deteriorate even further. What measures do you intend to take? What answers do you bring to the construction sector but also to many others?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Fonck, like you, I have read the press release of the Confederation of Construction. On the one hand, we are concerned about the availability of workers to work overtime and, on the other hand, about the fear of unfair competition. This is a concern both for the Confederation of Construction and for us, and we have tried to remedy it, especially with regard to unfair competition. You're saying that's not enough. However, I would like to remind you of the three ways in which we have tried to address this unfair competition problem. The first is that a person who carries out complementary activities may only engage in a limited series of activities; the second is that there is a restriction on the amount earned per year and per month; the third is that a worker cannot compete unfairly with his employer through complementary activities. These are the three measures by which we have tried to combat unfair competition. The Confederation of Construction now clearly points out that there is a major problem because the worker who has worked overtime is not interested in these decisions. I have obviously asked for figures and I can assure you that they do not confirm the situation that the Confederation of Construction has described in the press. We do not have administrative data on the number of overtime hours worked in the construction sector or in other sectors. It is therefore too hasty to conclude that there is a great problem with workers working in construction. You also mentioned Article 42, § 4, which provides for the evaluation of the law one year after its entry into force. It also explicitly provides for the transmission of this assessment to the House. I hope that you will agree with me on the need for an evaluation of all the elements, both those provided by the Confederation of Construction and other sectors, in order to verify the effectiveness of these three measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u11	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your kind answer. In any case, you clearly consider that the Confederation of Construction is telling anything! As for his extremely clear and well-weighted appeal, you clearly consider that it is of no interest since, today, you simply say: "Well, we will carry out the evaluation in a year's time as planned". I find this attitude extremely light! Go to the field! Oh, yes, it's in the law! But you're a minister. And I think we need to intervene urgently rather than wait for the situation to deteriorate. Go see what's going on in the field! See the situation of SMEs and self-employed people! It is the construction sector, but other sectors are also directly concerned. Yes, there is unfair competition! Yes, there is a risk that at some point jobs will be destroyed! Your 500 euro slice is nice! It's sexy! And it is true that this can be interesting for certain sectors – I am thinking for example of the sports sector. But having extended it, as you have done, to all sectors, as you have planned, I think it is irresponsible! And today, Deputy Prime Minister, I ask you, in support of the Confederation of Construction, to take urgent action; to anticipate, if you wish, this assessment. You cannot limit yourself to simply respecting the law and waiting for the perverse effects to spread more and more!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u12	Minister, with only one in seven nuclear reactors active, we do not have to worry too much about nuclear incidents in November. That's still the advantage of the whole situation. In this respect, as Minister for Nuclear Safety, your palmares are not so bad, because the situation has never been so safe in any way. But, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, all madness on a stick, today I would like to ask you, above all, what happened in the month of September. Minister Marghem argues that the situation is happening to her, that she did not know and could not predict that so many power stations would fail. However, I find it very difficult to accept that explanation, as did my colleagues in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure earlier. Nor can I imagine that you think it is a good explanation. You know, as we do, that the problem of concrete rot has been known for some time. In view of the fact that Mr Nollet and others asked you to update on this almost weekly, it is clear that you, as Minister for Nuclear Safety, already knew that these problems were serious and that there was a good chance that the calendar would shift. Mr. Jambon, what happened? Actually, we already knew what was going on. In fact, we knew the risks as early as September, when the government, of which you are also a member, decided not to set up a strategic reserve with the Minister for Energy. Then what happened? Have you not discussed the situation of the nuclear park with the Minister for Energy? Was she not aware of the problems of concrete rot, which would be very strange? Would it not also be a good idea, Mr Jambon, given that the timing set has constantly changed over the last few months, that you, together with the FANC and the operator, should draw up a credible timing and planning as soon as possible? After all, there is more than just the month of November. If we want to prepare ourselves well for the cures of nuclear power stations, it is better that we have a clear and honest view of the planning, rather than that we are confronted with a schedule that is constantly changing over the next few weeks and months. In short, first of all, what happened in September? I would really like to know what consultation there was or was not, when the measure relating to the strategic reserve was not extended. Secondly, how will you look ahead beyond November and plan the maintenance work better and more credible?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u13	Minister, did you fall out of the sky, like your colleague Marghem? Was it a thunderbolt in the clear sky for you, too? I don't think so. When I read and hear the answers you gave in committee, that does not seem to be the case. It is nevertheless hallucinating that the Minister of Energy is suddenly surprised at the problems of our nuclear power stations. Even more hallucinating is that she does not take any responsibility for these problems. No, it's someone else's fault. Minister, it is the government that relies entirely on nuclear energy. It is the current government, which has extended the lifespan of Objective 1 and Objective 2, so that the alternatives on the market did not stand a chance. It is because of the current government that we are likely to have a shortage of energy and that prices will rise. You and your party are constantly questioning the core exit. Minister, I questioned you in July 2018 about the fact that so many nuclear power plants are failing. You replied to me that this proves that the FANC is doing a good job. Minister, the FANC may be doing a good job. I agree. That is not the problem, however. The problem is that the nuclear power stations are unreliable. That is why they are failing and not because the FANC is doing a good job. They fail because they are completely unreliable. Mr Minister, nuclear energy is not the solution. Nuclear power is the problem. I have the following questions. When it was decided that a strategic reserve would no longer be established, has there been any discussion in the government and with you? Did you ask the FANC whether the calendar proposed by Electrabel for reopening is realistic? Would Tihange 2 and 3 actually open before winter? Did the FANC check that out? Have you asked or will you in the future ask whether Objective 1 and Objective 2 will effectively open in January 2019? If that is not the case, we have an even bigger problem. So what is the FANC's relationship with the decision? Minister, I am really looking forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u14	Mr President, Minister, for the past four years, our nuclear power plants have been aware of incident incidents. We will remember the micro-cracks of Tihange 2 and Doel 3, the sabotage of Doel 4 (which is still not elucidated), the repeated fires of transformers. And now, the problems of concrete cracks. The disaster was announced. I find it crazy that today your colleague Mrs Marghem can make us believe that she could not anticipate the chaos in which we may find ourselves. The situation is amazing. On the one hand, the Minister of the Interior and the Federal Nuclear Control Agency are in constant contact with Electrabel as part of the revision of nuclear power plants; on the other hand, the Minister of Energy dares to say that she is not aware of the technical problems facing these plants. For me, there is clearly a responsibility of the government in the current confusion. Minister, can you tell us more about the state of the Belgian nuclear park? Are the dates advanced by Electrabel for restarting power plants reliable? How do you explain that you and your colleague Mrs Marghem have not been more cooperative? Were you aware of the risks of plant closures following safety inspections? When did Ms. Marghem decide to remove the strategic reserve? Did you then tell Ms. Marghem that there were risks of nuclear power plant closures this winter?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u15	Mr President, let me be clear: the FANC does not negotiate with Electrabel over periods. It is Electrabel, the operator, who indicates that he has to have a certain time to perform a maintenance or repair, after which he moves a date forward. The FANC does not negotiate this, but checks whether the repairs necessary to ensure the safety of the power stations have been carried out before the plant is re-activated. As a result, indeed, a number of times a plan prepared by Electrabel has been postponed by a decision of the FANC. I wish to keep it that way, and that is, by the way, a legal provision. The FANC should not ignore Electrabel about planning and other matters. That's not the role of the FANC. I am convinced that AFCN has always communicated transparently and regularly, particularly on its website, on the situation regarding the concrete problem of the various nuclear reactors and also in response to Mr Nollet's parliamentary questions. We were able to follow the evolution of the concrete degradation week by week, except during the holidays. I give you a brief overview of the situation of the various power plants. In early October 2017, a maintenance stop was planned for the Doel 3 plant. During this inspection, concrete was degraded in the Doel 3 bunker. The bunker houses emergency systems. These are second-level systems, such as emergency pumps and bunkerized diesel generators. The operation of these emergency systems is planned for us but is absent in many power plants in our neighbours. The operation of these emergency systems must be guaranteed at all times in our reactors. Our buildings must be able to withstand any event. These bunkers must be able to be protected from outside events. This has nothing to do with ionization inside, but it is, for example, in the event of an external accident, such as the crash of an aircraft. After this consultation, a repair was naturally carried out. The Doel 3 reactor was restarted on July 12, 2018, following a thorough inspection and after the green light of the AFCN. For Tihange 3, a stop was planned for the month of April of this year for maintenance actions. At this maintenance stop, similar problems were detected. In April, concrete was found to be a problem and, in July, during repair, it was found that concrete reinforcement was also a problem. It is installed differently from the original specifications. Problems have therefore been detected both in concrete and in concrete reinforcement. At that time, it was decided to check the Doel 4 and Tihange 2 power plants. For Doel 4, its maintenance was scheduled for August of this year. We decided to control its concrete in the wake because, to do so, the power plants must be at a standstill. As far as Tihange 2 is concerned, it was scheduled to stop in November, but we put it forward in August because of the problems encountered and in order to be sure that the two plants were not affected by the same problem. In September, we had to see the degradation of concrete in these two plants. The question now arises as to whether the FANC was sufficiently proactive after Tihange 3 and whether we should not have said that all nuclear power stations should be shut down. The specialists said at that time that the conception of Tihange 3 and that of the other plants was different, that the other plants in that part of the bunker had a plastic wall against the concrete wall and it was estimated that there was no problem of degradation. During the maintenance of the next plant it was seen that this was the case and then the decision was taken. I think this is the normal course of action. The operator shall be responsible for safety and the FANC shall monitor it. We were asked what the situation of our power stations is today. I can be clear on that. Objectives 1 and 2 are stationary for maintenance until 10 and 31 December respectively. Objective 3 was restarted in July and the start of Objective 4 is scheduled for 17 December. Tihange 1 is currently in operation, but is shut down for a scheduled maintenance in November. Tihange 2 is scheduled to restart at the end of March 2019 and Tihange 3 in February 2019. That is the planning that Electrabel has drawn up, and that is the planning for the FANC's checks before giving the green light for a start-up. As far as communications are concerned, as the European directive also provides, the Electrabel is the one that has to communicate to the market with regard to the planning and planned closures of power stations, including to Elia. The moment Electrabel says she will close a power station in a certain period of time, a communication leaves immediately to the market and therefore to Elijah. The operator shall comply with those legal provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u16	Mr President, I do not want to be a nuisance, but the Deputy Prime Minister is not answering my most important question. My main question is whether there was a consultation with the Minister of Energy when she decided not to build the strategic reserve, despite the well-known concrete rot. That's the question of the day for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u17	There was no consultation with me as such because the information had been communicated to the market and therefore to Elijah. Such discussions should be held with Elijah. That consultation did take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u18	Mr Minister, in the case of similar problems, when one finds that the maintenance work is dragging on longer and in response to parliamentary questions you yourself indicate that there are delays to be expected, it is strange that the government, of which you and the Minister for Energy are part, decides not to set up a strategic reserve. During the period when you answered the questions about the concrete rot, Minister Marghem should not even read all the parliamentary reports, she should just read the newspapers. It was already clear that there would be a problem with those power stations. A major mistake has therefore been made by Minister Marghem and I do not understand why you, the Minister for Nuclear Safety, are not discussing this with the Minister for Energy. Secondly, of course, the FANC should not leave any power stations open if there are safety problems. We must not negotiate this with the operator. However, today's situation is not good, because the timings envisaged are too short and not realistic, after which they need to be adjusted, but with a negative impact on the market and prices. The FANC must therefore not ignore this, but it must ensure that the deadlines set are realistic and that communication is correct. These are certainly points on which we will have to come back in the next few days in a somewhat more extensive setting than the Plenum Question Time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u19	Mr President-in-Office, your very comprehensive response to the repeated failure of the power stations proves what we have always said: nuclear power stations are currently unreliable. Still, you're holding on to it. The most important question today was whether, after the decision not to create a strategic reserve, the government should not have discussed and considered whether the timing set out in Electrabel is realistic. Of course, the FANC should not negotiate with Electrabel, but the FANC should inform you and the government, and you apparently did not ask. We will face a second problem if Objectives 1 and 2 do not open in December. Then we will have a much bigger problem in January. Mr. Secretary, you're sticking to nuclear energy. You and your party in particular bear a very great responsibility for this, a responsibility that will be borne by the consumer, because he will feel it on the invoice. So far, Minister, your strength of change.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u20	Minister, I think it is important to remember that priority must remain nuclear safety, before any other consideration. I also believe that we can highlight the quality of the work of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency and, finally, the transparency of Manager Electrabel. That being said, you did not actually answer all of our questions. Or if: you answered, precisely, by saying nothing! You clearly have no consultation with Minister Marghem on such sensitive issues as nuclear security and the safety of our country's energy supply. And so, in my view, Minister, this government has a very serious political problem on this issue!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u21	Mr President, Minister, the good news is that the criminal Rustemi, who would have collected 22 years in prison by now, has been arrested and locked up in an Albanian cell to serve his sentence. The less good news is that he should have been in jail for a very long time, but he managed to slip through the loopholes of the network, partly because of a lack of cooperation in our country between Justice and the Foreign Office. Ladies and gentlemen, the less good news is that Albania is accusing our country of 'deadly dawdling' because we would have waited months to pass several sentences on to Albania. Mr Minister, I would like to ask a number of specific questions in this dossier today, which is still not quite clear. Firstly, there was an exchange of views in this House at the beginning of September, on which you and your colleague Mr Jambon were present. During that exchange of views, it was stated that the 2010 circular on cooperation between Justice and the Foreign Affairs Office would be rewritten in order to avoid such incidents. Is that what happened in the meantime? What is the state of play with regard to the rewriting of the 2010 circular? Secondly, can you give us a clear answer to Albania's theorem regarding the number in our country? Is that right? What kind of judgments did they need? What exactly were they waiting for? Who was asked that question? Who was supposed to deliver that? Thirdly, in your communication about this case, you mentioned, among other things, "a procedural error." You also said that only a small part of the facts is displayed. What exactly did you mean by that? Finally, did Albania need those Belgian documents to arrest Rustemi or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u22	Mr President, Minister, Mr Rustemi has been sentenced to 22 years in prison for crimes of violence and drug trafficking. Quite a lot of mistakes have crept into the file. You're always calling it mistakes, but it's really about mistakes. I'd like to go over them with you. First, a judge releases him on bail, in particular a bail of EUR 25 000, which is a bummer for someone who is active in drug trafficking and prostitution. Afterwards, DVZ gives him a free pass to Albania; someone who should have been in prison here, as a free man, is sent to Albania. Finally, you said that there was first excellent cooperation with Albania, while it appeared that it was rather the slow train. It took me from April to September to deliver the verdict. In doing so, you still knightfully admit that the wrong procedure was followed. Isn't that a lot? After all, the sum of many errors becomes a major mistake in the long run. Mr Rustemi was led to Albania as a free man and committed serious crimes there in December 2017 and in April 2018. I hear you very often talk about zero tolerance on police violence. Well, Mr Rustemi did just take care of a policeman in Albania. So we actually exported crime. That is what we have done: crime exported. I hear you and some now declare that Rustemi will serve his sentence in Albania. However, I will not be surprised if you or your successor come here in 2019 to explain why the Albanian regime released Rustemi. Do you trust that regime? At least I don't trust it. You do not trust it either, because in this regard you indicate that the brother of one of the ministers there has been deported to Italy for drug trafficking and corruption. Here in Belgium there is no dash in the government, but in Albania there is almost a hallucinating amount of dash in the government, because there one sniffs whiter than white. Minister, what will you do to avoid the accumulation of errors, which will eventually become a gross mistake, in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u23	Let us first and foremost look at the mistakes to which Mr Vuye refers. Of course, a room of accusation decides exactly what it wants. In addition, I believe that we have been sufficiently accountable here for the fact that DVZ has deported that person. I mentioned it yesterday as a regrettable expulsion; in any case, the 2010 circular will be modified. As I have already said, there is now a reference magistraat per arrondissement, per province, in each parish, which advises DVZ whether or not to expel a person released from remand. The person in question should not have been deported. I come to a second point concerning Albania. In a short time I have become an expert, you will not blame me for that exaggeration in reading Albanian press articles in English about crime in Albania. It is difficult to believe that a delay in the Belgian court could have caused the late arrest of Mr Rustemi and ten other persons in a two-week coordinated action. It is more likely that this was a negotiated action, for which time was needed, because I found at least three crimes in the Albanian press for which he could have been detained. He was spotted and located in Albania on April 17th. We were then asked for certain documents on 20 or 27 April. So from April 17th they knew where he was. There were several crimes for which he could have been arrested. The fact that our documents would have been needed to hold him is hard to believe, but I can reassure you. Tomorrow night I will see the Albanian Minister of Justice, who is in the country. I shall, of course, have an exchange of views with her on this matter. Either there was a concerted action, which was early, or this is what the opposition in Albania blamed the government for waiting too long. Then maybe we'll be the scapegoat for that late arrest. I cannot judge that, but it is clear that the four Rustemi brothers in Europe have a very dubious reputation. The Belgian press has even explained in detail about the Dalton brothers, as they are sometimes called. By the way, one of the brothers is in prison with us, in Saint-Gilles. The action in the Netherlands and Albania was well coordinated. The end result is good. I have to talk to the Albanians about this before I fully understand that. Right now, I don't understand. I do not think we can be the cause. There were plenty of reasons to arrest him, apart from the fact that Belgium would be slow. I have already confirmed that the files were submitted very slowly; it should not have lasted four months and a few days. That should've gone faster. It was the result of the initial application of the transfer procedure and not the procedure for a question of enforcement by Albania. Finally, there is a fear that Mr Rustemi will not serve his sentence in Albania. Of course, I cannot give any guarantees about that. But let there be no misunderstanding: he has been sentenced to nine years. Unlike what was said on television last night, he must serve those nine years in Albania. There is also a trial against him, in which he was sentenced in absentia to a further thirteen years. We will be able to determine in the next few months whether or not he opposes it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u24	Minister, thank you for your clear answer, which means, among other things, that Albania did not need the sentences of our country to arrest Rustemi. I note that tomorrow you will see your colleague, the Minister of Justice of Albania, and I hope that this can be clarified. The Rustemi file does not do any good for the image of our country. One day there is the Rustemi case, yesterday we have to learn that Belkacem could not be arraigned to hear his case plead. I believe that all this together is disheartening to all the staff of the Justice Department, who are doing their best to do a wonderful job day in and day out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u25	Minister, you do not say whether there is a causal link between the slowness on the Belgian side and the fact that crimes have been committed in Albania. Perhaps those documents were not necessary, but at least they were useful. In any case, there is a causal link with Mr Rustemi's expulsion to Albania. Someone who had to be in prison here was deported to Albania. If he had been in prison here, he wouldn't have committed any crimes in Albania. It's obvious. So DVZ actually exported crime here at taxpayers' expense. I also read that DVZ does not only export crime, but now apparently also import. In Knack today, it was said that there was no satisfactory control of family reunification issues. That is a problem, because DVZ apparently starts to do something about the import and export of crime in an additional profession. Mr Minister, I would like to take up the old Michel administration's whim, namely that for ten years there has been inheriting a mess in matters of foreign affairs and justice. However, you will undoubtedly be chivalrous enough to admit that the same Michael administration has actually added another five years of mess to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u26	Mr President, Minister, we need to take stock of the strikes of security officers in the courthouses. Some demonstrations have already taken place last week and we have had another one this morning. The consequences of these are quite considerable, since they hinder the smooth running of the hearings and, in particular, in Liège, where some are very important. I just read that the prosecutor's office would like to call on the army to replace the lack of security. The reason for these strikes is to be found in the change in the status of security officers scheduled for January 1, 2019 and in the risk of financial loss associated with this change; some officers fear that they will no longer be able to apply for certain promotional examinations that they could have claimed had they remained under the FPS Justice status. Minister, I know that you took this matter to heart by planning to meet with the unions on October 8th – if I am well informed – and this, without any guarantee that further strikes will occur. How do you analyze this situation? Is there a stumbling block in the granting of these promotions? When did the latest promotional examinations for security officers, in particular, date? With regard to the disruption of hearings related mainly to the transfer of detainees, short-term measures must be taken to ensure that justice is done in a continuous manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u27	Mr President, Minister, Fouad Belkacem was to appear before the Antwerp Court of Appeal. The hearing had to be postponed because the police were unable to secure the transfer of the terrorist to the courtroom due to a lack of personnel and vehicles. My colleague reminded us that, at the foot of Liège too, a murder hearing was adjourned because of the lack of police capacity to ensure security. We have learned that the army has again been asked so that the trial can be held. Security personnel assigned to the transfer of detainees and to the security of the courthouses have been disconnected several times in recent months because of their transfer to the security department. The reason for their discontent is legitimate since this transfer, this change of status will cause them to lose many benefits. The way in which the transfer was organised to the police on 1 January this year does not allow them to pass the judicial promotion examinations which, at the very least, would have limited the financial impact of this transfer. The very organization of the security corps also poses difficulties for the transfer of detainees at certain times, which will not fail to create problems for future hearings. Mr Minister, some rightly wonder whether behind these last budget cuts there is no hidden agenda, which would make it possible to say that justice is not working, that it is too slow, too heavy and too expensive. It would be blessed bread to impose privatization, regionalization or even video surveillance or hearings within prisons. All this is not in favour of the rights of the defence, let alone qualitative justice. Minister, what accompanying measures have you taken for the staff in tension? The transfer to the Federal Police Security Directorate weakens their status while asking them to be increasingly versatile. Can you assure us here that this will not happen and that you will allow staff to take the promotion exams? Given the different missions of the DAB, what assurance do you have that Justice will not again be the poor parent in the security missions in order to ensure that hearings are held in a timely and safe manner?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u28	Mr Minister, Tuesday morning the former leader of Sharia4Belgium was not transferred from Hasselt's prison to the Antwerp appeal court. That wasn't because there was a strike or because the person in question was ill or didn't want to come along, but you just hold on because there was no transport. That's not the first time. We hear that the federal police cites the lack of men and vehicles as reasons. Who understands that? There's no transport to take a prisoner to his trial. The court of appeal already informed the Hasselt prison at its previous session on 26 June that Belkacem should be transferred from Hasselt to Antwerp for a new session on 25 September. Despite three months, however, it has not been possible to make agreements with the federal police for transport, a major communication blunder. Mr. Secretary, I am truly standing here with substitute shame. In the Justice Committee you are dealing with a lot of complicated matters, including the creation of a business court, but a well-functioning basic justice for everyone starts at least with people who can be transported to their trial. It is very sad that in 2018 the principles of a secure Justice are not working and that is anything but reassuring for everyone's safety. I hope you have heard what I have said, Minister. I have two very simple questions. First of all, what do you, as Minister of Justice, think about what happened? Secondly, how will you ensure that every prisoner can be taken to his trial on the right day and at the right time? Can you reassure us?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u29	Mr President, Belgium is still looking for the correct replacement of the transport of prisoners by the National Guard, which used to exist. You know that this task was entrusted to the local police, but that she found that task too difficult, and then the Security Corps was set up. However, the joint leadership of two corps in different entities, namely the Security Corps of Justice and the Police Corps of Home Affairs, leads to difficult problems of coordination. This is particularly the case in Brussels. The Government has therefore decided to create a new special corps, within the framework of the Federal Police, which will integrate the current officers of the Justice Security Corps with the police and the military. This new entity formed within the federal police force will exist as of 1 January 2019. This is the solution that we wanted to give to the continuing problems that existed, especially in Brussels, because of the poor cooperation between the local police and the security corps. Mr Jambon and I have had fruitful negotiations with the unions of the security corps on the future of the agents who will be integrated into this new body within the federal police force. Of course, there will be no pay cut as a result of the move from the security corps to the federal police. Subsequently, the status of the Federal Police will be resumed. Normally, there are promotion exams after four years of seniority. We have organized far more promotional reviews than usual in these negotiations. Recently, 65 staff members were promoted with effect from 1 January 2017, and 64 staff members were promoted with effect from 1 January 2019. A total of 129 people would normally have had to wait much longer to be promoted. A further seven-three officers are currently requesting promotion examinations for them. This question depends on Mr Jambon and myself - on Mr Jambon, because the budgetary cost of these new recruitments is borne by the Department of the Interior. We had a first negotiation with the unions on September 18. There'll be another one on October 8. I'm going back to the events this morning. Mr. Belkacem was tried yesterday afternoon. We made sure that the hearing could be held in Antwerp. On the other hand, this morning, the transport cars of Saint-Gilles were locked up by the security corps, so that there could be no transport. However, today, 18 new police recruits joined forces that were ready to work. For example, a court of assizes is being held in Brussels today. So it's not that nothing is done. There is permanent consultation between the Commissioner-General, the Chief of Police of Brussels and my office to ensure that the discontinuities we can still expect are limited to the minimum minimum. I am therefore consulting with Mr Jambon for the time being on how we will ensure continuity until the end of the year, taking into account the budgetary cost.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u30	Minister, thank you very much for your answer. I support this reform, given the many shortcomings in coordination between the local police and other security forces. I also hear that the consultation has already started and is bearing fruit and, above all, that certain promotional examinations have already taken place. More than half of the applicants would have succeeded. I very much hope that some of the problems that are supposed to prevent certain hearings from being held will be resolved at the meeting on 8 October. I also hope that the means for negotiation will be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear the numbers you've been saying in a laborious way. Justice is once again the victim of the budget cuts that you impose on it, the blind savings that everyone has been denouncing for four years and that no longer allow justice to function properly. Agents are sick of it. All the actors in the judicial world denounce him. There is also an increase in registry fees, the fact that staff executives are not being filled. Now, there'll be no more hearings. For what purpose are these savings imposed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u32	Mr President, Minister, I would have liked to have been reassured. However, I am not reassured and many with me are neither. You continue to have two major problems. On the one hand, communication between services does not work. There are continuous errors, which means that there is no transport and that there are no processes. On the other hand, logistics is not working. If there are no cars to bring prisoners to trial, which is the foundation and basis of justice, then I wonder what we are actually doing. In fact, for months, you should do nothing but fix that problem. You should put things on hold for a while. With all the innovations we are discussing in the Justice Committee, I would wait. I would make sure that people who have to go to their trials get to their trial. You have our full support if you wish to continue on that point and save at that post. After all, it is more than necessary. This is about security and the basic work of justice. I will end with a sentence that will greatly surprise you. I hope I won't be back here anytime soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u33	Minister, this question has to do with selective indignation. A few months ago, murder and fire were shouted here when it became known that the Belgian International Investment Society, as part of the Federal Participation and Investment Company, participated in a Vietnamese port project through legal constructions on the British Virgin Islands and in Hong Kong. That was outraged at the time by all the groups. Thanks to good articles, however, we now discover that the Walloon government wants to deposit 50 million euros into an account in the Virgin Islands to save a deal around the closed factory of Caterpillar in Gosselies. Today we are the only group that would like to ask you some pertinent questions. This is a very strange thing, because Sogepa says he has guarantees that the money will be invested in Wallonia, but it seems to me that such transactions must be carried out through a tax haven. In the discussions, all parties, including those responsible in the Walloon Region, were solemnly promised that the government would set a good example. I translate that in such a way that legal constructions through tax havens would not be used. I find it very strange that these practices still follow on now that the federal government has intervened in the policy. So that's what I wanted to put to you. I would also like to know if the administration was aware of the Walloon government's transaction to transfer EUR 50 million to an account in the British Virgin Islands. If Article 307 of the WIB were to be added, it could be expected that the transaction would also be reported. So the question is whether this has actually happened. Will the administration sometimes examine whether this transaction had to be reported and why it did not? I will come back to the case of the BMI earlier this year. You said there would be no more transactions with tax havens. Has the policy in this area been fully adjusted?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u34	Mr President, Mr Deseyn, I have taken note of articles in the press that mention an investment by Sogepa, the investment fund of the Walloon Region. It is indeed an investment in the former Caterpillar business site in Charleroi and, more specifically, a Taiwanese electric car producer. Together with you, I note that Sogepa's demand to operate through a Belgian branch was apparently not met by Thunder Power, the Taiwanese company I was talking about, and that therefore Sogepa's board decided to invest the funds in the capital of a holding company in the British Virgin Islands, with apparently the necessary guarantees that those funds will indeed be invested in Charleroi. That is what I, like you, have heard from the press. Furthermore, I am not aware of this dossier. I do not need to explain to you that Sogepa is not within my competence, but under that of the Walloon Minister of Economy. With regard to the fiscal part, I want to be very clear. I am not at present aware of whether there has been a transaction, nor of the company's specific statute. Both things must, of course, be looked at further in due course, before anything can happen from our point of view. You referred to the "states" of the Belgian International Investment Company, in particular the port project in Vietnam, in which a tax haven was found to be involved. As a result, I have made the investment companies under my responsibility subject to strict requirements. This concerns mainly the FPIM, which was the subject of a new management agreement in July, which contains two very explicit and clear provisions relating to payments to investments along fiscal havens. I can tell you that, at Sogepa's request, the FPIM is also looking at the dossier that we are discussing today and that it will, of course, take explicit account of what is contained in the new management agreement on transactions with tax havens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u35	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. We are in a very strange situation. I believe that my group is maintaining the line when it comes to anti-money laundering legislation, fair taxation and dealing with tax havens. Minister, you will certainly remember that when I mentioned this subject, I was given a standing ovation here, but now I do not even hear a sigh of indignation from those same parties when the Walloon Region is at stake...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u36	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u37	I listened very well. I also thanked the minister for his response and for his commitment to the matter. Don't worry! The Minister took care of the policy and also said that when a question comes to the FPIM, this criterion will be strictly applied, that vehicles in tax havens are not used. I do not understand the nervousness of one and the other, because I am satisfied with the Minister's commitment to this matter. It is very important that the administration further monitors what is happening and checks whether all the reporting obligations in this respect are met. I hope that this parliamentary question can contribute to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u38	Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the day before yesterday the Flemish Government announced in its September declaration that it would like to award a premium of EUR 7 500 next year to builders of a renovated house, to those who first break down a house and then rebuild it. This is a measure similar to a VAT measure at federal level. VAT legislation provides for a reduced rate of 6% for the demolition and reconstruction of a dwelling. This rate applies in 32 cities and municipalities. You also know, Minister, that the Flemish Minister for the Budget has knocked on the door several times to make the measure of the reduced VAT rate of 6% applicable throughout the Belgian territory, and not only in those 32 cities and municipalities. CD&V has already submitted a legislative proposal to make the reduced VAT rate of 6% applicable throughout Belgium, but with a number of restrictive criteria, in order to meet Europe, namely an area criterion for the home and the condition that it should be a family home. That would fit perfectly in a policy.... also in that of the Flemish government....................................................................................................................................................... Mr Minister, were the measures proposed by Flanders discussed with you? Was there any consultation with the federal level? What do you think of this measure? Do you believe, like me, that it would be better to extend the reduced VAT rate to the whole territory and not to limit it to 32 cities and municipalities? The Flemish premium would not then be necessary to give an additional incentive to the builders in rural and less urban areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u39	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, since 1 January 2007, a reduced VAT rate of 6% has been possible for 32 urban centres, in particular urban cancers, which are referred to as somewhat rude. For the sake of clarity, of these 32 areas there are currently 13 in Flanders. The scheme was temporarily extended to the entire territory in 2009-2010, but had to be taken back under European pressure or after comments from the European Commission. I shall come back to that in a moment. I have taken note of Flanders' request to amend the current regime, which the federal government manages. I am delighted to invite them to discuss this further in the short term. In fact, you have already stated that two proposals have been put forward in the Finance Committee today which go in the same direction. It is very sensible and socially and economically sensible to look at this more closely. Nevertheless, I would like to draw your attention a priori to the first indications on the budgetary cost of such an operation, which is quickly moving towards EUR 100 million on an annual basis and possibly more. I shall now return to Europe. Moreover, for the extension of the rate from 6% to other areas, there is an explicit requirement that the reduction can only be achieved if there is a clear social motive. This is perfectly argumentable for a number of urban areas and perhaps for other areas, but it is a much more difficult issue for the whole territory, as we experienced in 2009-2010. The dossier can therefore certainly be looked at in greater detail, but the important European counterintelligence must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u40	Mr Minister, if you have read our legislative proposal correctly, you know that we are responding to Europe's questions and that we are filling in the social motive by restricting the extended 6% VAT measure to family homes and thus not extending it to second or third homes or to rentals. We therefore limit the measure to the family home and, moreover, the house or apartment should not exceed certain surface criteria. As a result, we are sure that we will respond to the European counterintelligence and be able to resist the comments at that level. In any case, I would like to thank you for further discussing this matter with the Flemish authorities and for ensuring that the policy remains coherent and that there are no different cases at two levels. I continue to stress that the reduced VAT measure would benefit a sensible spatial policy in Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u41	Mr. President, Mr. Minister of the Public Service, you are hitting hard on public servants and sick workers. Like your government, you are hitting people who are already vulnerable because they are sick and have lost their income. In the private sector, this amounts to a 40 per cent salary loss after a reference period. One of the social achievements of civil servants, police officers and members of the military was to be able to accumulate the possibility of sick leave throughout their careers. Today, to thank all those people who work hard, you decide to withdraw this right on January 1, 2019 and limit the right to sick leave to 21 days a year for these people. This makes the situation even more difficult for civil servants than for private workers. After 21 days, there is a loss of wages. Minister, I must tell you that sick people are primarily victims. They already suffer from illness and also lose income. Minister, this is completely unfair! But what is even worse is that you do not apply to yourself this reduction in salary that you inflict on public servants after 21 days of illness. As a minister, you do not lose anything in pay even after four months' absence for illness. You, right-wing MPs, do not suffer any loss of pay even if you are ill for four years. What you ask of public servants, you do not apply it to yourself. This is outrageous! It is this double standard, which we had already seen in the context of pensions. You asked people to work until they were 67, but that didn't apply to you. Today, you are asking officials to lose this right to cumulation, if necessary and under medical certificate, this right to continue to receive his salary, while you, right-wing MPs, receive your salary even if you are ill for three months. It's outrageous and hypocritical!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u42	Mr Hedebouw, I have always thought that your party was striving for equality for all people, but here I have the impression that it is about equality as in Animal Farm:all animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others. I haven't heard a question from you. I will therefore try to answer what I believe you have asked me. However, let me be clear: I do not understand why you are standing here constantly attacking what we have in mind. We do want to bring equality between the various workers. I have also read the press today, and if it is true that your President suddenly came to the luminous idea that we politicians should do the same thing here as all the other people, elsewhere, who contribute to our society, then I understand that Mr Mertens listened very carefully during the debate in which our people were present. I am therefore pleased, and I believe that everything will be all right, because I understand that you, like the N-VA, are striving for equality, including for parliamentarians, in terms of rights and duties of this kind. I therefore understand that you will follow fully my party, which has taken the lead in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u43	Minister, I do not think you have been clear. It is not about equality; here there is inequality and that is what this is about. It is precisely about getting your wages paid off, while sick officials will not be paid off after 21 days. There's the problem! That's the problem with the N-VA! If you want equality, okay. But then true equality. I think it's a good principle that for someone who's sick, the pay doesn't change. After all, that person is already refusing because he is sick. Let us apply real equality and apply the principle here in Parliament to the whole population: 100 percent of the wage is paid. Why should the officials who are sick lose their pay when you do not lose your pay? That is hypocritical because of Belgian politics! Minister, you want equality? Okay. Then withdraw your measure. On 28 September there will be thousands of us: policemen, police women, soldiers, who do not agree with the fact that you, who are still paid your wages if you are sick, will decide that thousands of policemen and soldiers will lose wages if they are sick. I think that's outrageous!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u44	Mr President, Minister, the arrival of swine fever on Belgian territory is a new scourge for the agricultural world, you will agree with us. I want to have a thought here for the 58 farmers involved, but also for the 15,000 jobs in this pig sector in our country. I am also thinking of the collateral effects, in the province of Luxembourg, among others, but also in the neighbouring provinces of Liège and Namur, for the Horeca workers, the wood industry, hunters and consumers, of course, who are asking questions today. Minister, I will have three questions, quite simple. The first relates first to the aspect of prevention. It's not new, we know that this disease is at our borders. It is progressing endemicly in a range of Eastern countries. I would have liked to know, since we had this information, what concrete steps you, your services, have taken to prevent the onset of the disease. A task force is implemented under the aegis of the AFSCA. I wish I'd known what his record was. Has it made any recommendations? How, if any, have these been implemented by your services? Since the beginning of the crisis, there have been a number of messages under the guise of anonymity denouncing illegal imports of wild boar from Eastern Europe. In the light of this, have you, together with your colleague the Minister of the Interior, taken steps to increase vigilance and carry out controls in this regard? A second concern concerns crisis management. Since the onset of this disease, a series of drastic measures have been adopted. The isolation of a perimeter of 630 km2 – which is not commonplace – a ban on hunting and traffic, and, today, a preventive slaughter – is a source of concern to the population. We know that this slaughter was requested by the Boerenbond. We also know that, on the Walloon side, the federations reacted: the United Federation of Farmers' and Farmers' Groups (FUGEA) denounced the total absurdity of this measure; the Walloon Federation of Agriculture (FWA) and the Belgian Meat Federation (FEBEV) multiplied the questions on compensation. Minister, the fight against this disease is going to be a long one. I believe it is important to have the support of farmers and "all" their federations. You met them this morning, I think. I would have liked to know what conclusions you have drawn and what compensation mechanisms are provided for. Finally, AFSCA predicted that if this virus develops, several years of action should be expected. I think, again, of those 58 farmers affected. Beyond the ad hoc compensation announced, what is your action plan to sustain these companies and the entire sector, which is important in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u45	Mr President, Minister, on 13 September last, two cases of African swine fever were diagnosed on two carcasses of wild boar found dead in Gaume. The number of cases identified today would be fifteen. In order to avoid contamination, a containment area was defined by a perimeter of 63,000 hectares, which is enormous, around the town of Etalle, in the Gaume where the first cases had been reported. Existing biodiversity measures, additional measures have been imposed on pig farmers in this area in order to avoid contamination of cattle by wild boar. We are thinking of all the operators in the region who are suffering from this situation, whether they are farmers, hunters, the timber sector, etc. On Monday, you finally announced, Minister, your decision to slaughter the 4,000 farmed pigs in the perimeter. The decision does not yet appear to be final in that the order is neither signed nor notified. I can understand the principle of precaution and preservation of the credibility of the Belgian pig industry. It's important internationally. But the question of the proportionality of the measure arises. If the slaughter is total, I imagine the compensation will also be. Minister, since the duration of incubation of the virus is unknown, how long will it take for the situation to return to normal? Why were quarantine measures not sufficient? Since the European Commission has committed itself to contributing 50% to the compensation of herders, how will the funding of the remaining half be broken down by the federal government? How will this compensation be distributed in so far as a pig of an organic farm is not the same as a pig of an industrial farm? When can farmers expect to be compensated, perhaps on a monthly basis, but totally, I hope?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u46	Mr President, Minister, we are meeting the day after tomorrow, Friday, in the Committee on Health to discuss this subject in all its complexity. Today, I am going to limit myself to the current day of slaughtering, which you are going to impose, of healthy pigs located in the area of 63,000 hectares. I don't understand. These are healthy pigs, which have been raised in the open air and most of which are organic. They are now locked up as a result of the discovery of this virus. So these pigs don't contaminate, they don't spread the disease. They are not contaminated and they cannot spread the virus. Yet they are the ones you are going to shoot as a matter of urgency from the end of this week. The wild boars, on the other hand, who spread the virus and are likely to leave the defined area, are not slaughtered. Why this rush to eliminate healthy pigs? What are the scientific arguments? Is it really the European Commission that forced you to make that decision? Or have you taken it with the possible support of the European Commission? Again, on the basis of what arguments? The victims, the owners of these pigs, small outdoor and organic producers, have taken years to develop a line of pigs that allows this type of quality breeding. They're going to need years to rebuild the lineage and the lineage. You say you're going to compensate them and you're going to do it depending on the type of pig you're talking about. Are you going to compensate them for two or three years, the time to redo the lineage, the time to be able to return to their lives with these pigs? If there's compensation, it's that one. Below that, you put them in bankruptcy. Again, we find ourselves, as often, Minister, and we often have exchanges like these, between quality and local production chains and the large industrial export market. It is this one that is preserved and it is this one that perhaps requires you to eliminate these healthy pigs because companies like fattening companies in Flanders refuse to buy healthy pigs that are raised here in Wallonia. I just want to ask you a few questions about alternatives that exist. You may and may not impose a cut for economic reasons. You can impose veterinary visits every day. You can intervene with these Flemish feeders to tell them that they can use these pigs since they are healthy. Minister, how are you going to eliminate the carcasses? By personal consumption? By short circuit consumption? Or is this going to go on rendering? If this goes into rendering, it will probably be outside the area. You are therefore taking risks of contamination by the virus outside the area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u47	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u48	These are my Ardennes origins, Monsieur de Lamotte! Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the decision to slaughter 58 pig farms in the containment area raises at least the question of the professional federations, the FUGEA and the Walloon Federation of Agriculture. A lot of questions arise. FUGEA's spokesperson called this choice directly into question by saying that it was perhaps even inspired by reasons of financial interest other than that which FUGEA and others are used to defending in the south of the country. Minister, a first question arises. Is it true that the containment area will be reviewed with respect to its delimitation and reduced? This is a hypothesis that has been raised. If so, was there no reason to expect to know exactly the extent of the containment area before deciding on the slaughter and whether, therefore, all the farms were in the containment area that will be determined in a certain and definitive manner? Second question raised by others as well. Why attack the breeders and do nothing about the wild boars that are, for the time being, the cause of the spread of the virus? With respect to compensation, we heard that you made commitments this noon. We'd like to know the extent and extent of it over time. It is not just a question of compensating farmers for the lost part, for the unit. It is also necessary to consider the investment that has been made for all these breeders for years, in particular to have a quality genetic selection for this sector but also because they have invested in generally high quality facilities. What, then, is the compensation provided for such injury, for the long-term loss of operation? Indeed, it is expected that this sector will be affected or will be prohibited from continuing its activity for several years. Thank you for providing more reassuring answers to the sector concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u49	Mr President, Minister, on 13 September, bodies of wild boars with African swine fever were discovered in the province of Luxembourg. Today, the issue is the fight against this epidemic. That is really the question we must ask ourselves today. Since then, you have taken a series of steps with your regional colleague. I think you've agreed, and I'm glad to hear that. These are preventive measures. When we know a little about the sector, we know that we have to go fast, that there is a real urgency. The aim is to avoid contagion to the pig sector of this incurable disease, 100% fatal for pigs. It should be noted that the Belgian pig industry is currently free of African swine fever. The first measure is the installation of a secure area of 63,000 ha, where hunting is strictly prohibited. Here too, I think that the debate will take place in the Region: what is happening in the hunting sector? That really raises the question. Hunting, normally, is a regulation. We need to regulate the fauna and flora, the populations of cervids, wild boar. But this is another debate. Then your first watchword was the containment of the 4,000 pigs in this secure area. You have made the decision to slaughter them, as a precautionary principle. Hard decision, I can say. I was able to read yesterday that you obtained the support of the European Commission and a commitment to co-finance up to 50% of the compensation for the operators covered by this decision. We return to the heart of the debate: yes, it is farmers. How will we compensate them? The Federal Animal Health Fund will cover the other half of the amount. Minister, the slaughter of healthy pigs in the infected area was a difficult but also necessary step. How did your European counterparts react to this announcement at the European Agriculture Council on 24 and 25 September? Can you also tell us what support the sector will receive in terms of compensation? I have a thought for the farmers who are working, who have invested. I am also thinking of the costs of expertise and the disposal of carcasses. A consultation with the Agrofront took place this morning. Can you tell us about it? Your answer is expected because an entire economic sector is waiting for it. This sector is very affected: it is a daily rearing of these animals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u50	Minister, our country has been free of swine fever for a long time. For the first time since 1985 there has been swine fever in our country, in feral pigs in the deep south of the province of Luxembourg. So far, 14 cases have been detected. This has had an immediate impact on the trade in pork in Flanders. The export is stalling. Thirteen countries outside the EU have more or less stopped imports of our Flemish pork. The price structure and market prices are no longer in line with actual prices. We are also hearing rumours that some retailers are even taking advantage of the situation to put pressure on farmers to get even lower prices. In any case, the farmer and his family lose their income, without even one case of swine fever being found in Flanders. He will, of course, be able to ask for a delay in payment of social contributions, but we are getting signals that they are hardly being used. Mr Minister, my question is very simple. What measures will you take to safeguard the position and income of our pig farmers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation of African swine fever has already been adequately outlined. It is quite clear that the government must do everything in its power to prevent the disease skipping the ordinary pigs in the professional sector. The government must act quickly and vigorously. I was therefore pleasantly surprised, Minister, when you announced on Sunday that you are considering having all the pigs cleaned up in the area of the affected village. In concrete terms, it concerns 58 holdings with a total of 4 150 pigs. Cleaning up is obviously very painful, but it is probably essential and necessary to avoid further spread of the disease. This measure is, of course, not without economic consequences, and I have a number of concerns and questions about it. You have already announced that the royal decision on the clean-up is almost complete. Can you explain when you will effectively implement KB and what measures will the BFSA take to protect and clean up the buffer zone? You sat with the regional ministers this morning. Can you explain what agreements have been made and what measures will they take? As I said, the removal of those pigs is not without economic consequences. Those 58 companies will have to be compensated. This compensation must, of course, be properly calculated and granted. Can you tell me what budget you are providing for these support measures? Will you reimburse both the animals removed and the operational costs incurred? Will an empty stand be provided for the evacuated companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u52	Last but not least, you also said that there would be support from the European Commission. Can you explain what aid has already been effectively promised and how it will be paid out?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions on this very difficult subject. In this sense, I would like to associate myself with Mr. Frédéric's thinking about these farmers who are going through a disaster both in terms of their economic activity and in terms of the emotional consequences of this situation. Firstly, and because it is useful to repeat this, I would like to point out that the Belgian pig sector is unharmed. Since the discovery on 13 September 2018 of cases of African swine fever on wild boar bodies in the region of Etalle, in the province of Luxembourg, both the federal and regional authorities have taken preventive measures. On this subject, I would like to say how optimal cooperation with the Regions is and how much I support the measures and the work of my regional colleague René Collin. As far as Mr Frédéric's question is concerned, if we were able to respond properly to the matter, it was because we had been ready for several months. The services of the various levels of power are working together under this task force and we have been able to take a number of measures to raise awareness of the problem. The question was no longer whether we were going to be affected by swine fever, but rather when. With all the services concerned, we were prepared to do so. I will allow myself not to answer the questions that do not fall within my competence, as you will understand, for example, those relating to the definition of the area, to hunting. I will leave it to the competent ministers to respond. Nevertheless, I will say a word about economic compensation, which is their responsibility. To avoid contagion to the pig sector of this incurable disease and 100% fatal to pigs, as Mrs Cassart said, we must take necessary and extremely difficult measures. But beyond taking these measures, we must implement them very quickly. Every day that passes is, indeed, a day too much. We expose the pig industry to the serious risk of no longer having an "African swine pest"-free status. It is therefore worth recalling what the pig sector represents in our country: it is more than 4 000 farms at national level, 15 000 direct jobs. The decisions we make, of course, we want to take them for the whole pig sector. And I think that the 551 pig farmers in Wallonia are obviously sensitive, Mr. Maingain, to the fact that we are taking strong measures to protect the sector. The regional authorities have, of course, already adopted a series of measures. I won't come back. We also had to take a measure to slaughter pigs in the area. This health measure has therefore been taken in full consultation with the European Commission and its experts, who have the necessary experience in this field to advise us. In this context, I would remind you that it is no less than nine European countries that are or have been struck by African swine fever. It is of course a matter of trusting all the advice given to us by these experts, whose daily work is to fight African swine fever across Europe. In some countries, the latter have given advice which has made it possible to prevent swine fever from spreading beyond controlled areas. I have taken the sanitary measure in consultation with the European Commission, which has the necessary experience. Nine European countries have been affected by the epidemic at this stage. After the European Commission had supported the Belgian measures, including preventive slaughters, it reiterated its support for our measures following the European Agriculture Council in Vienna. Several Member States, including France, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Spain, support our measures. Other Member States have also underlined the quality of cooperation and the exchange of information with Belgium. In fact, some of them have also carried out preventive slaughters. This is a genuine economic and sanitary threat to the European Union and the Commission encourages actions to reduce the virus. Mrs Gantois, at present 13 countries, including China, have indeed suspended their imports of Belgian pork. These decisions are the result of bilateral trade agreements concluded with those countries. They provide for the automatic implementation of this measure once our country is affected by African swine fever, even though our pig sector remains fully healthy. This has the direct effect of keeping pig farmers in the contaminated zones with unsold animals, a situation which is all the more damaging to our country as a major exporter of pigs; we are talking about more than 250 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u54	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u55	This is an important subject! Mr President, you will take the responsibility of not seeing answers to all the nine questions that have been put to me and which normally give me the opportunity to reply with an extended speaking time! In addition, an action plan has been put in place with AFSCA to reassure importers of Belgian pigs. We have expressed, both bilaterally and at European Council level, useful information to reassure the partners. In addition, all our diplomatic posts abroad have been ordered by the Department of Foreign Affairs to ensure that useful information is disseminated on the fact that the Belgian sector is perfectly healthy. We stand by the side of the sector. The meetings we had this morning with the Agrofront have made it possible to see all the recognised trade unions in the agricultural world supporting the sectors and the slaughtering measures that we are taking. Mr. de Lamotte, we received the support of the interdepartmental conference of regional ministers and the federal minister with the support of Minister Collin and Minister Fremault's representative. In the area of compensation, the aim is to work alongside farmers and herders. We were able to obtain 50% compensation from the European Commission and that was not easy because it is an economic measure at the bottom. With the Animal Health Fund, we will take account of all the specificities of livestock farmers. We will look at and distinguish, for reimbursement, organic farms from conventional farms. It's not the same thing. All expertise costs will be covered. We will ensure that investments in animal feed that have not been consumed by animals can be repaid. Slaughter costs are borne by the AFSCA. We are about to implement these measures. We are fine-tuning the budget in order to present to you, probably already on Friday, the amount of the budget. On the other hand, although this is not a federal matter, we have been able to establish contacts at the Council meeting in Vienna with Commissioner Hogan. In addition, the Walloon Region is considering the long-term economic compensation of these farmers who, for several months - in any case, until the virus is eradicated in the infected area - will find themselves in a particularly difficult situation. The Regions will meet with Commissioner Hogan, so that they can count on the support...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u56	Please conclude, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u57	I come to my conclusion, Mr. President. I would like to say that we, the ministers of agriculture, take this measure of death in the soul. It is not easy to make such a decision, but if we do not do so today, we risk seeing the swine fever virus contaminate the entire industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answers, which leave me... interrogative. You mentioned the precautionary principle. It's normal: it's your role as minister. For my part, I asked you about its application upstream of the problem. You're telling me that the AFSCA had assembled its task force for months to prepare to react to a problem. I would have preferred preventive action on your part. With your colleague from the interior, have you organised checks on these transfers, which would eventually be at the source of the virus's arrival through the transport of wild boar from the east and scattered in our forests for hunting? It would have been a very logical preventive action! Obviously, this has not been the case. At least you didn't answer me that way. Then, Minister, I was just telling you that you would need all the federations in this country. Unfortunately, in this debate, we felt that your methods were being challenged by some of them. Besides, it's not a feeling, it's a reality. We may have thought that you were under the orders of the lobby of the Flemish agri-food industry, which immediately demanded the slaughter of the contaminated animals. We are still puzzled about this need. Walloon federations were not formally consulted. That's what they said. They were today. You will need tomorrow, Minister, all the federations in both the North and the South to eradicate this virus. We agree with you. It's a disaster for the sector. Here, at least, we share the same observation. The distress is great in the agricultural world. He needs concrete support more than ever, and we will see to it. We are committed to this and will continue the discussion this Friday in the Committee on Public Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answer, which, if it was lengthy, was not complete. Excuse me, but a few questions remained unanswered. I therefore take note of the elements that you mentioned earlier. I did ask you the question of the proportionality of the decision. I didn't get an answer, but I had more. What reassures me is that you have referred to the respect of the specificities of the sectors and in particular of organic pigs. It's obviously important to me. You must know that all of us here are at the side of the livestock sector and that this is an important element. As far as compensation is concerned, I have not heard from you the date on which people could obtain this compensation and whether, in the pursuit of compensation, economic unemployment, if I may, would be envisaged in order to continue the work of these farmers. They cannot, once their pigs have been slaughtered, remain in an area where they will not be able to rear for a period of time without having compensation to survive. I really invite you to move forward in this direction and to remain in touch with all the agricultural federations in the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u60	Minister, you made the decision to shoot down and then you consulted. The balance of power is not a negotiation. How can we best protect our interests after this decision has been made? So, we're talking about compensation. We mustn't confuse things. For the compensation, you say you want to take into account the specificities for several months but I told you about years, because it is farms that have asked for years and that will take years to be reconstructed. So I hear you're committed to that. You have not answered my question about the destination of the animals to be slaughtered. The probability that they should be eliminated is high. To do this, you will have to get out of the area and perhaps spread the virus, at that time. For healthy pigs, which are in stables, do not spread anything. It is the wild boars that spread the virus while circulating. I too have consulted experts from Europe and FAO and they do not have the same speech as you. It is possible to hunt wild boar by the technique of traps. This is a FAO recommendation experienced in countries where swine fever has occurred. This makes it possible not to spread the virus by driving the wild boars away. So there are alternatives. I'm asking you to look at them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u61	Minister, I hear your argument about the precautionary principle. I'm not going to say it's not worth anything because you said you consulted with experts and you have to hear their voices. But you are not answering the question that Mrs Gerkens has just raised. It's the wild boars that spread the virus. Now, it is the pigs who pay, if I may allow this summary. Basically, we don't understand how far your precautionary principle goes. You'll still have to specify it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u62	Mr President, I have heard criticism. But I wish people who criticize knew the field. Difficult but necessary measures have been taken to control the risks. As I said at the outset in my speech, there is an urgent need. It's a brave measure. It is not easy to deal with such debates and crises. Prevention has been implemented through various measures. There's a pair between the Region and the federal government. We don't stress it because we think it's normal. It wasn't always the case. About the importance of the industry, we are talking about an industrial lobby. This is, I would remind you, 15,000 jobs. But we also support the agricultural sector, which in general will receive compensation, depending on its specific characteristics (bio or not, expertise costs, European co-financing). Yes, the agricultural sector is our concern! When measures are needed, they must be able to be taken with courage and efficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u63	Mr President, this is obviously not an easy issue. I appreciate the measures you're taking. I believe you will do what you have to do. However, my great concern is how our companies should survive. I hope that you will call for real and correct compensation, both for the farms that are being disposed of and for those that are currently stuck with unsold pigs, which only cost money. I also hope that people will be very careful not to abuse the situation. Finally, if we look at the map of Europe, we will find that swine fever occurs in the deep eastern bloc and in the extreme tip of Belgian Luxembourg, not in Germany. Mr Minister, if it turns out that swine fever has been broken out here by infected wild boars who were illegally imported to shoot them during hunting, then that is cynical. After all, this import will no longer allow us to export. I hope that the phenomenon will be investigated very carefully. All actors and those responsible must consider what is going on. Who's responsible for the massive damage, the brutal misery? As far as I know, wild boars do not care about national borders.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u64	Minister, we are in a very difficult and delicate situation. We must avoid further spread of swine fever. This may require tough and delicate measures, preferably in consultation with the experts and the industry. Action must be taken quickly, especially with regard to our exports. It has just been said that 13 countries have temporarily suspended imports from our country. There must be a clear signal for all the countries to which we export. The absence of a structural solution to the outbreak of African swine fever may cause the disease to skip. This could cause our entire exports to be frozen and even stopped. This would be an economic disaster, as the damage could amount to EUR 725 million. I am not talking about the impact on direct and indirect employment in this sector. Minister, we absolutely must avoid that. I trust that you will take decisive action to reduce swine fever and, above all, that you will provide reasonable compensation for all affected farms in the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u65	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, just a few days after 32 criminal illegals were released because of the persistent lack of capacity in closed return centres, thousands of applications for family reunification are approved every year without proper control. If possible, even more hallucinating than the release of criminal illegals, the fact is that, because of the lack of control over family reunification applications, residence cards are already being issued to persons who have made a false marriage or are even sought abroad. While criminals who are illegally staying here are not expelled from the country, new lawbreakers and criminals can legally enter the country. A better illustration of the fact that this government, despite all your rhetoric, Mr Secretary of State, is actually pursuing a policy of open borders, is hardly possible. Under no circumstances can this process be shifted to the higher or lower entities, nor to Europe, nor to the municipalities, but is only the responsibility of the Belgian Government in general and of you as the competent State Secretary in particular. It was entirely in the power of your government, and this government alone, to drastically increase the number of places in the closed return centres, to tighten up the criteria for family reunification for asylum seekers and to ensure that the competent department was adequately staffed. Those are all proposals that my party favours. Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my question is in fact about the latter, about the understaff of the Foreign Affairs Office. What are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u66	Mr President, Mr Penris, like you, I read this morning that for a certain department of DVZ, especially the family reunification department, trade unionists complain that the workload is too high or would be too high. This would be due to the higher influx, to more demanding directives from my cabinet and to lack of staff due to burn-outs. This would lead to some applications being approved without control, because their maximum period was exceeded. It is my job as Secretary of State to lay down the political guidelines and accents for dealing with these requests. The directives have indeed become stricter, but I assume you do not mind. This, of course, makes it more demanding for the staff. This is also reflected in the refusal rates, which have remained the same since 2013, despite the increased proportion of applications by refugees, which, due to European legal obligations, should not be subject to an income and housing obligation. In 2013, 35% of all visa applications were refused and 33% in 2018. Of applications for family reunification in Belgium, the rate of refusal rose from 14% to 16%. It is therefore not right that fewer are refused, certainly not, even more are refused, if the refugees are not counted. In accordance with European law, they should not be subject to the additional obligations. More importantly, at my explicit request, since 2016, there has been a systematic security check on public order and national security in the handling of every dossier delivered to DVZ, including for family reunification applications, Mr Penris. I would stress that this was not the case in the past. Previously, DVZ did not even have access to the ANG, the General National Database. That is an important step forward. I've always argued for that. Now it's reality, too. As far as the workload is concerned, there is indeed a serious increase in the number of applications due to the 2015 migration crisis. More people met the conditions, resulting in more applications in 2015 and 2016. In response, I have taken steps to reduce the number of applications once again. In 2016, I introduced the role right for applications for family reunification. In 2017, it was increased to 200 euros per person, successfully, as the number of visa applications for family reunification has fallen from 1 760 per month in 2016 to 1 480 per month this year. The number continues to decrease. With regard to staff shortages, we continue to work for more people and resources for DVZ. There have, of course, been savings. There is a general savings path for the government. Nevertheless, despite these savings, we are one of the few public services with additional investment and an increase in the staff budget in this legislature. We have therefore been given an additional budget. Most public services don't, but ours do. We need to work harder, that is precisely because we are imposing more demands and obligations, but I find it difficult to imagine that you would oppose that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u67	Mr Secretary of State, Theo, I think you are a sympathetic pee, if only because we sometimes meet in the same pubs, but your policy fails and your answer today illustrates that painfully. To get you on a better path, I brought you a book, a book by my chairman, Tom Van Grieken, Francken fails. Tough tweets, lax policy. It's your first biography. The booklet is full of numbers, more correct figures than these in your tweets. It's also full of good ideas. You know, if we give ideas, they're 100 percent free. You can copy them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u68	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u69	By letter dated 19 September 2018, the Council of the Flemish Community Commission informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 19 September 2018, the "Raad van de Vlaamse Gemeenschapscommissie" makes known that it was constituted in its session today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u70	By letter dated 21 September 2018, the Brussels-Capital Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 21 September 2018, the Parliament of the Brussels-Capital Region announces that it was constituted at its meeting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u71	By letter dated 21 September 2018, the Brussels Parliament informed us that the United Assembly of the Joint Community Committee was declared legal and complete on that day. By message of 21 September 2018, the Brussels Parliament announced that the Assembly meeting of the Joint Community Commission had taken place at its meeting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u72	By letter dated 24 September 2018, the Flemish Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 24 September 2018, the Flemish Parliament announced that it had constituted itself at today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u73	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 12 October 2017, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 17 October 2017 for the mandates of President and of First and Second Deputy Chairman of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 12 October 2017, a call for candidates for the terms of office of President and First and Second Alternate Presidents of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services was published in the Moniteur belge on 17 October 2017. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: For the President's term of office: Ms Johanna Erard, outgoing president of the Committee P - Ms Kathleen Stinckens, judge in the police court in Leuven - Mr Jan Van den Berghe, Vice-President of the East Flanders Court of First Instance. For the term of office of President: - Ms Johanna Erard, outgoing Chair of the P Committee - Ms. Kathleen Stinckens, judge at the Louvain Police Court - Mr. Jan Van den Berghe, Vice-President of the Court of First Instance of East Flanders. For the purposes of the mandate of first Deputy Chairman: - Mr Frank Schuermans, Advocate General at the Court of Appeal in Ghent - Mr Bart Van Damme, Judge in the West Flanders Police Court, Bruges Department - Mr Jan Van den Berghe, Vice-President of the East Flanders Court of First Instance. For the term of first alternate president: - Mr. Frank Schuermans, General Counsel, Ghent Court of Appeal - Mr. Bart Van Damme, Judge of the West Flanders Police Court, Bruges Division - Mr. Jan Van den Berghe, Vice-President of the Court of First Instance of East Flanders. For the term of office of second alternate president: - Mr Bart Van Damme, Judge in the West Flanders Police Court, Bruges Department - Mr Jan Van den Berghe, Vice-President of the East Flanders Court of First Instance. For the term of office of second alternate president: - Mr. Bart Van Damme, Judge of the West Flanders Police Court, Bruges Division - Mr. Jan Van den Berghe, Vice-President of the Court of First Instance of East Flanders. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 September 2018, the curriculum vitae of the candidates will be delivered to the political groups and the candidates will be heard by the Special Committee responsible for the parliamentary supervision of the P and I Committees. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 September 2018, the curriculum vitae of the candidates will be transmitted to the political groups and the special committee responsible for parliamentary support of the P and R committees will hold the hearing of the candidates. Are you sure you don't mind? (No) Thus shall be done. No observation? (No) That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u74	The mandate of Mr Pieter-Alexander De Brock, a Dutch-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services, expires on 7 May 2019. The term of office of Mr. Pieter-Alexander De Brock, a Dutch-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services, expires on May 7, 2019. In accordance with Article 30 of the Law of 18 July 1991 regulating the supervision of police and intelligence services and the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis, the members of the Committee I shall be appointed for a renewable term of six years starting from their swearing-in. At the end of that period, members shall continue to perform their duties until their successor is sworn in. In accordance with article 30 of the Law of 18 July 1991 on the Control of Police and Intelligence Services and the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis, the members of the R Committee are appointed for a renewable term of six years, beginning with their oath. At the end of this term, the members shall continue to hold office until the swearing-in of their replacement. The first paragraph of Article 28 of the same Act provides that two alternates shall be appointed for each member of the I Committee. The Chamber should therefore also appoint a first and a second Dutch-speaking alternate member. Article 28, paragraph 1, of the same Act stipulates that for each member of the R Committee two alternates shall be appointed. The House must therefore also appoint a Dutch-speaking first and second alternate member. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 September 2018, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of Dutch-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of the Intelligence and Security Services and for the mandates of first and second alternate members. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 September 2018, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a call for candidates for the term of Dutch-speaking member of the Standing Committee for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services and for the terms of first and second alternate member. Are you sure you don't mind? (No) It is thus decided. No observation? (No) That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u75	At the request of the applicant, I propose the motion for a resolution (Mrs Laurette Onkelinx, Mr André Frédéric, Daniel Senesael and Alain Mathot and Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou) on better guidance for perinatal mourning, No. 1674/1, refer to the Committee on Justice, in order to add it to the draft law amending Article 4 of the Law of 18 June 2018 laying down various provisions on civil law and provisions for the promotion of alternative forms of dispute resolution, concerning the act of a lifeless child, No. 3271/1. At the author's request, I propose that you refer the motion for a resolution to the Committee on Justice (Ms Laurette Onkelinx, MM. André Frédéric, Daniel Senesael and Alain Mathot and Ms.Nawal Ben Hamou) aimed at improving the care of perinatal mourning, n° 1674/1, in order to attach it to the bill amending article 4 of the Act of 18 June 2018 laying down various provisions in the field of civil law and provisions to promote alternative forms of dispute resolution, concerning the act of a child without life, n° 3271/1. This proposal for a resolution was sent to the Committee on Health, the Environment and Social Renewal on 25 February 2016. This motion for a resolution was referred to the Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society on 25 February 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u76	The Government requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law amending the co-ordinated law of 10 July 2008 on hospitals and other care establishments with regard to clinical networking between hospitals, No. 3275/1. The government called for urgency pursuant to section 51 of the Regulations when the bill amending the Coordinated Hospitals and Other Health Care Facilities Act of 10 July 2008 was introduced with respect to hospital-to-hospital clinical networking, No. 3275/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u77	Mr President, locoregional clinical hospital networks must be installed by 1 January 2020. However, in order to be feasible, the law still needs to be supplemented by a number of implementing decisions and initiatives should be taken at the level of the Länder to frame and guide the networking process. The sooner the law is published, the sooner the initiatives can be launched. Moreover, the uncertainty in the hospital sector about the direction of network policy is at least partly eliminated.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u78	Mr President, I have no doubt for a moment that the urgency will be approved. This reform is part of the government agreement, but it is nowhere after four years, apart from having discredited our political action in the field of public health and having caused concern to hospital institutions. I am surprised that, suddenly, we are facing an emergency, when it has been four years since we announced this reform, the implementation of which was initially announced for 2018. After a sudden awareness, its implementation was postponed beyond 2020-2022. Mr President, I want to hear the argument of the poor Secretary of State who must be Mrs De Block's voice. Personally, I do not understand this notion of urgency in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u79	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u80	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 September 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Marcel Cheron and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke cs) clarifying the scope of the rules relating to safe distance between vehicles and cyclists, No. 3284/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u81	- the bill (Mr Johan Klaps, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Roel Deseyn and Mr Luk Van Biesen and Mrs Sophie De Wit) concerning the provision of a State guarantee in the form of a guarantee, in the context of a DBFM agreement, for the construction of a new penitentiary facility in Antwerp, No. 3288/1; - the bill (Mrs Johan Klaps, Mr Roel Deseyn, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mr Dirk Van Mechelen) amending the law of 8 July 2018 establishing a central point of contact for accounts and financial contracts and extending access to the central file of messages of attachment, delegation, transfer, collective debt settlement and protest, No. 3289/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u82	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 September 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (MM. Marcel Cheron and Stefaan Van Hecke et al.) clarifying the scope of the rules on the safety distances between cars and cyclists, No 3284/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u83	- the bill (MM. Johan Klaps, Benoît Piedboeuf, Roel Deseyn and Luk Van Biesen and Mrs Sophie De Wit) on the granting of the State guarantee in the form of a guarantee, in the context of a DBFM contract, for the construction of a new prison complex in Antwerp, No 3288/1; - the bill (MM. Johan Klaps, Roel Deseyn, Benoît Piedboeuf and Dirk Van Mechelen) amending the law of 8 July 2018 on the organization of a central point of contact for financial accounts and contracts and extending access to the central file of notices of seizure, delegation, assignment, collective settlement of debts and protest, No 3289/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u84	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u85	Mr President, it is well known that Antwerp urgently needs a new penitentiary institution. Majority and opposition have been asking for that for a long time. Negotiations on their effective construction could start in November. However, it is essential that, before they can start, the provisions of the State guarantee are in order. Otherwise, negotiations cannot be started. That is why I am asking the urgency of the proposal. 3288.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u86	Mr President, I would like to ask for urgent consideration of the legislative proposal No. 3281 by Mr Buysrogge. The proposal concerns the transparency of the financing of the monarchy. I have noted that Mr Buysrogge has copied a number of points from a proposal that we had already tabled. We are therefore very pleased that Mr Buysrogge supports these points. We therefore call for the urgency of the proposal so that everything can be dealt with as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u87	Mrs Wouters, we will be voting on your request later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u88	Mr President, I denounce the way in which groups of the majority are made. I would point out that going through a bill rather than a bill, in terms of a state guarantee, means that we will not have the opinion of the Minister of Budget, nor the opinion of the Inspectorate of Finance, nor of the Council of State. That's not acceptable! As I said in the Committee on Finance, I say again here: we oppose this way of doing that I denounce, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u89	Mr Klaps, you are also asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 3289?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u90	Mr President, I would also like to ask the urgency of this because it has to solve a practical problem when introducing the National Registry Number into the Central Contact Point (CAP) data. The current five-month period to use the National Registry Number for the entry of data into the CAP expires on 1 January 2019 and that period appears to be too short for non-financial institutions and for the CAP itself. Due to the effective introduction expected in mid-2019, an extension of the deadline to July 2019, one year after the publication of the law of 8 July 2018, is necessary. With the new CAP 2, which should start with the data from 1 January 2019 and with the current date of entry into force, at the earliest 1 February 2019, there is a very short one-month period that will entail a lot of unnecessary efforts and costs. Therefore, the National Bank would like the date of entry into force of Articles 4 and 13 of the Law of 8 July 2018 to be introduced on 1 January 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u91	Mr President, in the Finance Committee, the government had tabled these two proposals as an amendment to a draft that we will be discussing next week. At that time the committee said that this could not be done as an amendment and then suggested that separate legislative proposals would be made. Mr Klaps has already quoted it. In this way we have also avoided that the discussion would be treated as an annex to existing proposals which had nothing to do with them. Now we can discuss it in committee. Mr Laaouej, you also agreed that we would work in this way. So next week we will be able to discuss the two proposals in committee. There are, of course, arguments for and against, but I believe that this is a matter of urgency, especially with regard to the central point of contact, but also with regard to the guarantee for the prison in Antwerp.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u92	I do not want to leave any ambiguity, Mr Van Rompuy, chairman of the committee. I spoke on the central point of contact. There is an urgent need to address certain shortcomings in the legislative framework. On the other hand, with regard to the State guarantee, I considered that the bill was not appropriate for the reasons I mentioned. I'll add this. I see we're speeding things up for Antwerp prison. What about Verviers? What about Vresse-sur-Semois and a whole series of other prisons which, as by chance, are located in another territory? Mr. President, that's what I wanted to say. I do not want to be ambiguous about the interpretation given by Mr. Van Rompuy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall first vote on proposal No. 3281, for which Mrs Wouters has asked for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u94	We are now discussing the bill No. 3288 on the penitentiary facility in Antwerp, for which Mr Klaps has asked for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u95	Finally, we are expressing our opinion on the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 3289 on the organisation of a central point of contact.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u96	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service of 19 September 2018. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 19 September 2018. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 280/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote and Ms. Sarah Smeyers. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 280/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote and Mrs Sarah Smeyers. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u97	Yes [[74]] Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 125 Total Mrs Vanessa Matz voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u98	The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u99	Mr President, let me just note that the majority is not in number. My intention is not to block the work; I know the agenda. I would just point out that you sent an e-mail to remind us that votes were on the agenda. I can only deplore this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u100	I take note of your words, Mr Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u101	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, General Affairs and the Public Administration of 19 September 2018. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the committee of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service of 19 September 2018. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 274/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 274/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 99 Yes No. [[25]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 126 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-plenair-ip245x.u102	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 4 October 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, October 4, 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 4 October 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 4 October 2018, at 2.15 p.m.
