ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u1	Brecht Vermeulen, President: Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome you to the joint meeting of the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Home Affairs. My colleague Kristien Van Vaerenbergh will chair the meeting on behalf of the Committee on Justice, and I will chair it on behalf of the Committee on Home Affairs. As far as the procedure is concerned, I suggest that we deal first with the additional questions. Those who have tabled an oral question will thus first speak. After that, all political groups which have not yet spoken can intervene in the usual order. If necessary, other members of the committee or Members of Parliament who believe that they need to add something to that may then be given the floor. Only then will the government be given the floor. In this way we can also prevent the government from answering the questions that have been raised in its statement. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u2	Mr Laaouej, you have the floor for your two questions which you can put in succession to each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u3	Mr President, thank you. Colleagues, the "brown pest" is back. We knew it, it's not a scoop. Perhaps what is new is the way in which it appears openly, expresses its objectives of access to power or occupation of power. We see enterrism within the university institution itself, that of Ghent, in particular. These are revelations from a documentary produced by the VRT. We see scenes of violence spreading across the country, beatings to people because they are of African descent. We also see explicit tags on certain places of worship and statements on social networks, on which some still use words such as the word "nigger" to characterize music heard at a popular concert in Brussels. Even more so, today we see some people assimilate population groups - still because of their descent - to behaviours that, by nature and simply because their origin is different, would be criminal. We see (and no doubt we have to see the results of the banalisation of the despicable at the highest level of the state, at its highest level, with impunity, today, which characterizes this way of doing that the government has for observed and observable behaviors within it) precisely because of this banalization, multiply and stream across the country and the whole of society openly racist and xenophobic behaviors displaying their aspiration, namely, fascism and the darkest pages of our history. But the problem we are dealing with today is particularly serious, because the light must be shed on what seems to be a divergence of analysis within the government itself, between the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. A few days apart, the Minister of the Interior explains to anyone who wants to hear it that there is not really a problem of resurgence of the far right, but that it is better to go look on the side of the far left. In other words, an analysis that would be rather reassuring, namely, that there is no resurgence of the far right. The Minister of Justice, on the other hand, informed us of the existence of a State Security Report which says exactly the opposite, namely that there are now groups of the far right, neo-fascists, who are ready to act, to carry out violent actions. These comments are confirmed by this documentary of the VRT, which refers to groups that explicitly envisage an armed struggle. Against whom, against what? We know that for these people, the targets are multiple. What about the end? What is the government's analysis? Who is right between the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice? Of course, I imagine that the content of the State Security Report cannot be disclosed to us under any circumstances. Yet we have the right to know! We represent and are the custodians of democratic values in this parliamentary institution. Those which, precisely, were built against the far right, against fascism, by holding back the lessons of history. Mr Minister of the Interior, you are a member of a party that is now known - and I am going to weigh my words, I do not want to be excessive - to be gangregnated by some elements of neo-fascism. There is material evidence to prove this, which has led to a number of resignations. The leader of your party even talks about cleaning. Little parenthesis: this cleansing should perhaps start also within the government... follow my gaze. Mr. Minister of the Interior, do you act impartially in this matter? If you have some authority over the federal police, do you make it a priority for this federal police force to fight the enemies of democracy? You owe the truth to us parliamentarians. You must act impartially. Are all guarantees of non-partisanship now in the exercise of your department? As for you, Minister of Justice, we would like you to tell us more about the information that you can tell us about the danger that we are running to see the far right flourish, the far right that shows its will for violence in our country. I would add, Mr. Minister of Justice, that the Ghent Prosecutor's Office has opened an investigation. We would like to know where we are going, as far as you can tell us. Do you finally intend to develop within the government, but perhaps also with the federated entities, a real plan of action against the extreme right in our country? The brown plague returns; it appears. As democrats, we need to stop. And no doubt, as democrats, we are going to have to count ourselves today. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, President: For the sake of clarity, we do not use the system of oral questions, so speaking time is slightly wider. I am counting on colleagues to show some reasonableness about the length of speaking time. Even for anyone who will speak after the questions, there is no limitation on speaking time, as is normally the case with oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u4	I think most of us have seen the Pano broadcast. What we saw was a sample of anti-Semitism, sexism, homo-hate and uncircumcised racism. And that's not the end of it. We also saw on the posts calls for arms and violence. We also saw members of the group with guns in the shooting club or with firearms at their home, perhaps even legally obtained. Well, that's gonna have to prove it. It frightens me. Such calls to arm themselves and use force, and perhaps even legal access to firearms, should prompt reflection. What also worries me is the way in which members of this organization were infiltrating "Schild & Friends" and are in all kinds of organs. In this case, it was about the University of Ghent and the Youth Council. But when it happens here, we have to ask ourselves whether members of these or other similar organisations may also be infiltrating other public institutions or services. We experienced this not so long ago in the army, with Blood and Honour and Soldiers or Odin and so on. The Secretary of Defense is not here right now, but the problem has already arisen in the case of the Defense Department. It is up to the bodies and administrations set up in a democracy such as that in Belgium to follow up and investigate it, in order to protect our democracy from such extremist organisations. This concerns State Security and Military Intelligence ADIV. You are the political leaders to whom we must ask how it is possible that this could have happened, how it is possible that they did not see it. According to State Security, they were on their radar. But apparently this wasn't enough. What does that mean, Minister, to be on the radar? Does that mean that there is a list above the computer of ten or fifteen organizations that are followed on Facebook? Or does this mean that we were really following a number of these organizations in depth, and that we were broken by the shield that was built around the organization to see what was behind the façade? Did they or didn't they? These questions need to be asked, but I will go into more detail about the questions themselves. I am concerned that the whole fuss is brought up by the work of journalists. They have managed to bring this to the surface, while the public authorities that should be doing so have failed to do so, the security of the state, the military intelligence service or the federal police. How is that possible? Do journalists have better informants than state security? In any case, they have much less legal possibilities. You always come up with new bills, you always ask for more, the services must have everything, they must be able to check mail messages, they must be able to eavesdrop. They must be able to do all this in order to reduce extremism, Minister. They have all received this from this Parliament, but we find that a journalist succeeds in exposing and explaining the truth, when our professional intelligence and security services have apparently failed to do so. This surprises and alarms me. It may have to do with a lack of capacity or setting wrong priorities, but that remains to be seen in the questions. What three things can we do at the federal level? First of all, the Justice Department has to do its job. I understand this will happen. An investigating judge was appointed and a judicial investigation will be conducted. So I am not asking specific questions about that. It is up to the Justice Department to deal with this by investigating whether crimes have been committed, which crimes, by whom and to what extent they should be prosecuted. Secondly, this government has a heavy responsibility to pursue a sound anti-discrimination policy. This concerns, for example, the establishment of a national institute for human rights. We have often asked questions about this. You always answer that you are working on this together with your colleague Demir. However, you have been working on this for four years, and in six months the government will come to an end. I ask you: will there finally be a national human rights institute, which is really needed in our country, as demonstrated by the reportage? Not so long ago, discussions were held in this Parliament on the evaluation of anti-discrimination laws. The evaluation carried out included important chapters on Justice and on issues that could be improved there. We need to find out how far we stand and how more than one tooth can be added. Thirdly, I have a question about the role of the security services, and that brings me to the essence of my questions, which are mainly addressed to the Minister of Justice. I have just expressed my surprise that journalists find out more after an investigation than our intelligence services. I submitted these questions last week, Minister, so I hope you will be able to give a precise answer. Firstly, were our intelligence services aware of the activities of Schild & Friends and of the possible criminal offences committed or committed, especially behind the shield, not visible to those following their regular Facebook messages? If so, what happened to that information? Did they pass on information to the prosecutors, to the federal prosecutor? If that's what happened, what did the parquets do with that information? Or didn't the intelligence agencies have that information? Then, of course, they could not pass on anything, but then we have to ask why they did not have that information. Secondly, following the attacks of 22 March 2016, we have often pointed out, together with others, that attention should be paid to monitoring Muslim extremists and jihadism, and our intelligence services have rightly focused fully on this. However, we have also warned that not all energy should be spent on this one form of violent extremism; we have stressed that we must not forget that other things can happen. Let us not lose focus. The question then is to what extent in recent years it has been a priority for our intelligence services to also follow extreme right-wing or other extremist groups. Exactly how many full-time equivalents have been used to follow up on all these extremist organizations? Or has it just been decided not to look at it for the time being, to let everything go down and to put 100 percent on jihadist extremism? The latter is of course important, but there is a risk that we will lose focus on other matters. What, according to State Security, is the extent of the extremist threat described? How many other extremist groups are currently being followed by our intelligence services? How many of these are in the classic pattern on the left and how many on the right? How many can be classified on either side? Thirdly, the task of the local task forces, set up in response to the terrorism that has hit us, is to follow all forms of extremism, not just jihadist groups or supporters of it. Have any other extremist organizations been targeted by these task forces? If so, which ones were they? Have they really done so? Fourthly and finally, the report showed that there was an appeal to arm themselves. Some members and supporters of the association were depicted with their weapons. I am no weapons expert, but it seemed to me to be semi-automatic or automatic weapons that were posed in a room in a shooting club or in a Flemish Lion. Can we, by means of our arms legislation, effectively stop people with such membership and with such activities from getting weapons legally? If such persons can arm themselves in a legal way, I hold my heart. One day, maybe one of those guys will grab that gun, too. So has our arms legislation been amended to counter the armament of extremist organizations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u5	Mr President, I would like to turn to the first point on the order of business. Why wasn't Secretary of State Theo Francken invited to the committee? After all, it is customary to invite ministers who are linked in one way or another to this political dossier. Theo Francken knows something about the file, although we can still discuss what he knows about it. That is why his participation in the debate would have been justified. It would also have made the debate more interesting. Brecht Vermeulen, Chairman: Mr Hedebouw, we could also have invited Secretary of State Demir and others. This has also been announced. You never asked for his presence. We could have invited a lot of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u6	Mr President, you are right. Mrs Demir could also have been invited. I hadn't thought about that. However, you are putting forward a constructive proposal, which we will soon be able to discuss if we see it. However, it is an excellent proposal from you. So I'll follow you there. Collega's, fascism is back. Fascist organizations are present. We all, or at least almost all, have had chills when watching the Pano broadcast, because there are organisations in our country that are involved with the Alt-rightideology flung from the United States. The Alt-rightideology is, of course, racist. We have all been able to experience this. She's also anti-Semitic, no matter what we've been through. She is also anti-woman, anti-marxist and anti-union. It's a very serious situation. In particular, it is clearly also prepared to engage in violence. That's what we all saw in the Pano reportage. How did we get to that point? How come we didn't see anything? How come journalists have brought forward an item that none of our services have been able to see? That is what we are discussing today, ladies and gentlemen. However, a lot has already happened with Shield & Friends. It is not the first time members have intervened publicly. I would remind you of the aggression they committed during an ABVV-action on 1 May in Ghent, where the flag of the ABVV was removed from the buildings of the ABVV. In the Pano-reportage, we also saw how they acted tough and powerfully.It was clear time to show where the strong men stood against our friends in Ghent during a solidarity action for refugees. Last year they also performed against one of our comrades, Naomi Stocker, who is active at the VUB. Members of Shield & Friends entered the student room of two activists, after they had broken the door open, and posted posters with death threats and references to killing left-wing activists under the Pinochet regime in Chile. Last year, a Comac activist was the target of attacks. Individuals stormed into his kot to put on posters with death threats against left-wing activists. Reference was made to the political assassinations perpetrated under Pinochet. This is an act committed by Schild & Vrienden last year. Minister of Justice, a complaint was lodged against Schild & Friends for intimidation and death threats. What happened to that? Has an investigation started? Why was Schild & Friends not closely followed after this incident, because the incident was serious? My third point concerns the violent aspect of the gang. I quote Dries Van Langenhove in the reportage. Listen carefully to what he says, ladies and gentlemen: "The day of violence will come. I know which side will be prepared and which will not." Let me translate this sentence, which will also be translated on television tonight, I hope: "The day of violence will come and that day, I know which side will be ready." So we have an organization that is openly preparing for the civil war, which is preparing from an ideological, practical and military point of view for this confrontation. That's what Pano's report showed us black on white. The question before us, the Ministers of the Interior and Justice, is how our services have seen nothing of all this. Nothing seen! Nothing came up. Questions were asked at the time about Schild & Vrienden but nothing was done. My fourth point, Ministers, concerns the question of which prosecutions will be initiated. There are laws that allow us to take action. I quote from you, Ministers: - the Act of 10 May 2007 to combat certain forms of discrimination; - the Act of 10 May 2007 to combat discrimination between women and men; - the Act of 30 July 1981 to punish certain acts motivated by racism or xenophobia; The Act of 29 July 1934 prohibiting private militias; - and the Criminal Organizations Act of 10 January 1999. Why has none of these laws been used to take action against Schild & Vrienden, who, I recall, has already operated in front of everyone aggressively for at least a year and a half? It's not something we didn't see coming. This organization exists. Personally, I have already given three to four conferences in Flanders where they landed at 15, 20, 25 to come intimidating. That's very clear! So on this side, I really believe that there are initiatives to be taken, ministers. Fourth point, the breeding ground. What is the political basis for such groups? How come such groups like that kind of language? There is clearly a political responsibility for right-wing parties, for parties talking about the Berbers, the Arabs, the others, racism. All these breeding grounds, they feel that way with those young people. They say that too, they feel they can sell racist talk. They're also on N-VA lists. That's not for nothing, they feel at home there. I am not saying that everyone agrees with that, but let us make it clear that they feel at home there. When I was told that there was no connection with the N-VA, Schild & Vrienden organized Mr. Theo Francken's security and order service throughout his tour. Theo tours quite a lot, it must have been a lot of nights. Don't tell me that a secretary of state doesn't know who comes to ensure his safety. Everyone took pictures. They took pictures. They're hotballs. It's not someone who just came to make a selfie on the street. All these selfies clearly show that these people are known. You're not going to give your order service to someone you don't know." Hi, I'm going to be your duty." "All right, take a seat." It doesn't work that way. Mr Jambon, can you at least confirm that there is an organic link between our Secretary of State and Schild & Vrienden? From a factual point of view, there is systematic collaboration. It is nevertheless an important question for the Minister of the Interior who is concerned about the security of our country: has there been a service of order, yes or no? Minister, what is your opinion on the organizational link that clearly exists? I'm not going much further. The situation is quite serious and I have asked very specific questions about the fact that no action has been taken in the past. I hope the Minister of Justice can answer me. I asked very specific questions about the ambient climate that existed in relation to Schild & Vrienden's ideological food. We are concerned about this democracy and the last question we can ask is how far we are going to let them go. For the time being, some salutary measures have been taken, particularly at the university level. I think the danger is much greater than it is now drawn. We see it resurgence all over the European countries. With the economic crisis, we can worry about parallelism with the 1930s. The economic crisis hurts people. People are afraid and the right people are beginning to emerge, with troops who want to use violence. This is indeed the central point that emerged in the Pano-reportage, namely that Schild & Friends were preparing to use force. That is an important point, that is what is happening here, and that is certainly a danger. Gentlemen, do you acknowledge that there is a danger? I ask the Ministers of the Interior and Justice to tell us whether this group preparing violent actions is a real danger. I'm very curious to hear your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u7	Madam President, Mr President, Ministers, last Wednesday, the Pano magazine of the VRT broadcast a remarkable survey - as several colleagues have already pointed out - highlighting the ideology propagated by the group Schild & Vrienden: racism, homophobia, anti-Semitism, sexism. In short, the complete manual of extreme right-wing propaganda, all dramatically punctuated by calls for violence and the use of firearms. This report is obviously cold in the back. The nauseous utterances contained therein must be fought and condemned with the utmost firmness. In addition, we are clearly dealing with an organisation which, moreover, has its entry into many places of representation and power, especially democratic ones, such as the board of directors of the University of Ghent or even within certain political parties. It is therefore an organized ideological movement that practices enterrism at all levels. That's what's freezing our blood and worrying us. Moreover, the terrible chance of the calendar that same evening, Cécile Djunga, presenter at RTBF, was indignant in a video published on her Facebook account about the racism she has been experiencing for several years. I come to the last episode that she wanted to tell and that really made her blow a cable, the same evening as the broadcast of the Pano report. A lady called the editor of the RTBF because she found Cécile Djunga "too black" and felt that "you only saw her clothes on the screen" and you had to tell her. It's terrible, because just reading these few words, we realize how freed the racist and hateful speech was in our country in the twenty-first century. This ignoble and institutionalized racism, whether organized or not, is still too present in our society. As members of the government, you must make the fight against all forms of racism and intolerance a top priority in your words and, of course, in your actions. At this stage, we are still far from it, politically at least, although we are all concerned. This leads me to ask you the following questions, Ministers. First, as leading politicians, members of the government and leading figures of your respective political parties, how do you react to the content of last week's VRT report on the Schild & Vrienden cluster? How do you react to the statements of the members of this group during their militant meetings or during conversations on Facebook? Would you tolerate members of this purely extremist group being on lists of your respective parties, the N-VA or the CD&V, during the next elections in October 2018 and May 2019? Secondly, unlike France, Germany and the Netherlands, there is no action plan against racism in Belgium. In 2001, however, the World Conference against Racism already called for the adoption of such a plan, but seventeen years later it had not yet been established. According to Unia, the Belgian Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities, the events that we have just described and which justify the holding of our meeting today, represent an opportunity to finally act and develop such a plan. I know that the preparation of such a plan is the responsibility of your colleague, the Secretary of State, Mrs Demir, but, as a member of the government, are you in favour of such an inter-federal plan and do you intend to plead within the government with your colleague, Mrs Demir, for it to be put in place before the end of the legislature? Thirdly, as other colleagues have said, last Friday, the Gypsy judiciary carried out searches in the Schild & Vrienden case, in particular at the home of the founder of the organisation, Dries Van Langenhove, as confirmed by the East Flanders Public Prosecutor's Office. Does the opening of this investigation, after the broadcast of the report, mean that our police and information services were not aware of the actions of Schild & Vrienden that were highlighted in the VRT report? If they knew, what did the prosecution do with that information? If they were not aware, how is it possible that such a clearly right-wing organization was not on their radar? Fourthly, regarding the use of firearms, how can such extremist groups be prevented from legally obtaining licences for the use of firearms? Is the current legislation sufficient or are you advocating specific measures to prevent such individuals from legally entering possession of firearms?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u8	Mr President, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Justice, I have seen this Pano report. The images are freezing. The words are terrifying. In view of the way the Jews are treated, the glorification of the concentration camps, the glorification of Hitler, it is a neo-Nazi movement, no more or less. The brutal attacks against blacks, compared to monkeys, Jews, homosexuals, women, Muslims... I must confess that I did not know, we did not know, Belgium did not know that it existed with such magnitude and with such violence in Belgium. Belgium is shocked by the revelation that these excellent journalists made, and that obviously did not, or could not, make, the state and your services. The first question is, how long have you known? This journalist's investigation lasted months. Since when did you know that this movement existed, that it had these characteristics, that it infiltrated the entire civil society, that it infiltrated the political parties and primarily your party, Mr. Minister of the Interior, that it had provided at least once the order service of a meeting of a member of the government, that candidates standing on your lists were claiming this movement? How long have you known? What measures have been taken to prevent these people from acting, not in violation of the laws that have already been referred to by our colleagues? Is there really a State Security report? Our colleagues referred to it. I do not have this report. However, I am a member of Parliament's R Committee, which is precisely about knowing, discreetly, information essential to our safety. Parliament has never been alerted about this neo-Nazi movement. I ask that there be an urgent meeting of the R Committee so that it can be seized of the information available to our intelligence services on this extreme right movement. How long has justice been seized? What have been the reactions of your services, Minister of the Interior? Have party presidents been alerted? Were universities alerted that these movements were infiltrating them? Has there been any action, however modest, on the part of your government to try to stop this brown tide? That is the question that we parliamentarians have the right to ask you. Why didn't you act when your government statement, for example, ensured better enforcement of the 2013 hate crime circular? What have you done in the fight against racism and hatred? This is in a particularly worrying European context with the rise of the far right, the rise of populism and the rise of hatred. It is therefore important that we clearly know what your position, attitude, actions, words and actions are going to be to effectively stop the spread of such hatred and actions, including violent ones, so that we can be fully reassured. Mr. Minister of the Interior, we want to know which side you are on. How do you fight that? What are the attitudes without ambiguity, without delay and without delay in order to be able to fight against this rise of the far right? It really is about the foundation of our European values, about the foundation of democracy, about the foundation of the most valuable European texts. This is how we are going to drive Europe into the future. The fight you are now going to wage against these kinds of movements is a collective commitment to how our freedoms can be guaranteed tomorrow. I look forward to hearing what you will say about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u9	Madam President, the footage we saw on Wednesday evening in Pano's broadcast about the group Schild & Friends has shocked many. All political parties have responded with disgust. There is a consensus which, fortunately, shows that this extreme rancidity that has spoken out of certain images does not find support in our political environment. My party also took a clear stand. The N-VA rejects any extremism, whether ideological or religious, left or right. The memes shown go against everything my party stands for. It would be nice if all the political parties did so with the same firmness, against any form of extremism. The broadcast and the discussions that followed confirmed once again that our way of living together on three sides could be threatened: extreme left, extreme right and religious, for example Muslim fundamentalist. Whoever condemns one, but tries to change the other, loses all credibility. Racism, anti-Semitism, sexism or religious fundamentalism must be expressly and formally rejected in this house of democracy, from whatever side it comes. We have gathered here for a debate and an exchange of views in a Chambers Committee. Here neither should we be able to comment on the criminality of cases shown in the broadcast. We await the work of the parole board and the judge. The VRT, as so-called fourth power, exposed a number of things. The correct legal process must be determined by the judiciary. Where criminal offences are detected, they should be punished after a serious and thorough investigation. We can hope that the research will provide additional answers to questions such as: from whom come the disgusting memes, who made them, who shared them in agreement, who pulled which string? Even if it does not reveal any criminal offences, the answers to these questions may contain very useful information. We come together here as legislative power to control the extent to which the executive has done its job. Two ministers are here to answer questions about this. I shall put these questions at the end of my speech. The legislative authority must also ask whether the existing rules are sufficient or whether additional penalties are needed. At the moment, we do not believe that the large arsenal of legislation still needs to be extended. Forbidden certainly does not always offer fundamental solutions, especially when it comes to ideas and views. Let us not forget that freedom of expression is a fundamental right, like the free press, freedom of religion and those other freedoms which constitute the legal translation of our basic standards and values. The space for this is not endless, but obviously very broad, wider than any other working model of society. Only when one freedom puts another at risk, and also in principle only then, can restriction be an option. We are in favour of reducing this space as little as possible. In connection with this interim remark, I would like to say that the decision of the University of Ghent to exclude a student from continuing his studies goes very far in reducing the basic right to education. We are also concerned that the Artevelde School seems to give the impression that students are supposed to express a certain belief or not. Here too, we must pay attention to a slippery slope. I would like to express the hope that our universities and colleges will certainly remain a safe haven for the freedom of thought and say, even when reprehensible opinions are ventilated. As has been said, the judiciary must do its job. We can question the executive here, although we would be surprised if there were major gaps there. We do not seem to have any new initiatives for the legislator. This joint committee meeting may be useful as a forum for an exchange of views, but I doubt that we can go much further here. Politicians, we are all representatives of political parties, the vehicles of thought that lead to political decision-making have a primary role to play in this debate. We must, of course, as I said, distinguish between what is criminal and what is reprehensible. Without prejudice to an investigation by the judiciary: if something is not restrained by criminal law, it does not mean that we should agree with it. For this reason, we express our unequivocal disapproval, regardless of the outcome of the legal investigation. Over the last few days I followed the reactions to the social media intensively and perhaps I wasn't the only one there. The vast majority of our population responded to the disgusting social media. However, in my opinion, we also found too many condolences. Many of the memes used were already widely and even too widely shared, including in the environments of pupils, youth movements and youth clubs. A first category of reactioners can therefore be arranged under tough racketeering, cheating with provocation, seeking out and crossing borders. Group pressure also played a role. In our very justified indignation, we must be careful not to want to restrict too much the space for young people to experiment. Of course, young people look for boundaries. It is certainly up to the less young people, like us, to indicate that these limits still remain clear. We must draw a clear line from our role, not by definition a formal legal one, but absolutely a political one. Yes, young people are entitled to experimental space, but we have a duty to tap fingers when they cross the line, as was the case here. That is how old-fashioned we are in our educational beliefs. In doing so, people who enter the greyed-out area of the political debate room are, of course, always entitled to a fair and correct assessment based on word and reply. Having said that, pointing only at the need for youth, the matter would be too minimal. We need to keep looking. Fortunately, active statements of support for racism, anti-Semitism or sexism were only exceptional on the social media. Many who gained understanding for the memes wrote that they did not do so because of the content, but out of fear and resistance. Let me give just one example of the actuality of the past few days. Last Tuesday, a day before the Pano broadcast, the Dutch public broadcaster called it "Growing group of young salafists rejects our society." It is then found that fear of one threat apparently reduces the disgust of another in the order of concerns. We find that some people are even going to see one evil as a remedy for the worse evil, according to them, and also as a justification for the language that we saw, among other things, appear in that Pano broadcast. Last weekend, criminologist Christophe Busch spoke in a newspaper about mirror radicalisation, in which one radicalism nourishes the opposite. It goes without saying that we will end up in a vicious circle when we close our eyes to that process. It immediately indicates where often the source is to be found, the place where really needs to be intervened, against the backdrop of the message that one extremism can never be a justification or an answer to the other. To get to the root, we need to take the fear of large groups of people seriously, people who fear that their safety, their way of life and their social model will be compromised. We certainly don't do that by isolating or ignoring those people. Only feasible, concrete and effective measures can avoid further radicalisation. What these measures are is, of course, the subject of a political debate. There is no doubt that we will not agree on this, but let us have that debate with respect and in the same as, above all, decent manner. Our party's commitment is well known: guaranteeing the safety of those who feel threatened, actively protecting and monitoring our tried and tested social model, giving our citizens a sense of home. And yes, we can do that without falling into hateful extremism. Let us also be very aware of the danger of letting the three mentioned groups flow into each other: the hard-hitting diehards, the people who feel politically abandoned and the young tough-doers must each be approached differently. Wanting to drown them in one pot would be a huge mistake and play hard in the hands of the diehards. We are faced with a historic task, ladies and gentlemen: how to captivate the discontent without slipping and let others slip into extremism. When the centre avoids its responsibility, the extremists will emerge as winners from the cloud of smoke and our society as losers. Against this background, Minister of Justice, I have four brief questions for you. To what extent does the State's Security follow radical movements? There are already pieces of answer to that; you are the best placed. Is the State Security aware of any active or planned violations of law, such as the use of force, by the Shield & Friends Group? To what extent is the State Security's infiltration followed? It is about infiltration by left-wing and right-wing extremists, religious fundamentalists or criminals, who try to infiltrate political parties. We already have some clues about this. To what extent does the Security of the State have the opportunity to bring to the attention of a wider public established and disturbing developments in extremist groups, politically or philosophically? We can't expect State security to spread reports too widely. I am aware of the smoothness of the ice on which we then move, but it has now become clear that the security of the State may have to work with more limitations than journalists, with all the consequences. To what extent can the security of the State play the social role of a warning body, even if no formal offences of criminal law are detected?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u10	I would like to begin by expressing my horror and anxiety about the true face that Schild & Friends showed last week in the Pano-reportage, apparently unintentionally. I would also like to remind you of some quite shocking examples. There was the announcement of the creation of a mobile SNV brigade to tackle "brownbags and kechs," Arabic for whores. Minister of Justice, that sounds almost like a private militia, in particular the creation of a brigade, to deal with other people of different colors. Secondly, there is their vision of women in society. It's called "fat bitches who are gross." It is suggested that women should only be a good mother and take care of themselves to look good. These are all matters that they do not express in public but behind the closed curtains of the chat group. There we see and hear what they really stand for. Thirdly, we have all seen that this chat group is full of anti-Semitic hate messages against the Jewish community, with painful references to the Holocaust. Also members of Schild & Friends compare themselves with Hitler. That's shocking. Minister of Justice, the penal law is very clear. Sexism, unhindered racism, Nazi glorification and inciting violence are described in our Criminal Code as criminal offences. We cannot tolerate any kind of denial, minimalization and condolence of the Holocaust, as Mr De Roover has just said. I have seen a few statements that I will come back to shortly and which in my view try to condone what "those boys have done o charm." So let me be clear. Racism and sexism This has not yet been understood by the N-VA. They have nothing to do with free speech. They're a criminal offence. Denying the Holocaust and Nazi glorification is not an opinion. They are not subject to free speech. They're a criminal offence. Inciting hatred is not an opinion. That's a criminal offence. I have heard Mr De Roover say that his party has reacted strongly. That's right. The chairman of the N-VA then talked about "cleaning up." What did we see after that? I would like to make a few references on this point. On Facebook, Marc Descheemaecker literally writes: "A society must be young dogs" In those young dogs, it's about Schild & Friends and not about other youngsters "allowing to commit the stupidest stupidities and visit political extremes." This isn't about political extremes, it's about criminal offences. This is not condoning. Minister Homans in the Seventh Day: "Let's not run a witch hunt for a group of young people with their own opinion." Colleagues, this is not an opinion. It's about criminal offences. That's what's coming up in this committee today. Some people think this is about an opinion and an opinion. There's a line crossed here. We've all been able to see that that line has been crossed. The boys of Shield & Friends know that they have crossed the border. Otherwise, they wouldn't do that in a darkroom or a chat room where no one else is allowed. Let us not condone that here today as politicians with responsibility as 'boys who may seek out the extremes'. Our Secretary of State Francken then says: "I had a good conversation with one of those men. He can stay on the list with me." That too is surprising. It's all okay, pie over the ball and we'll move on. The cherry on the cake is then his retweet of a tweet by a notorious Swedish Holocaust connoisseur. That's not normal anymore. Then I hear the N-VA here today calling for us as politicians to take responsibility. I'd say wipe your own door first. The day after Pano's report, Minister of Justice, I heard you say on the radio that the legislation contains sufficient grounds for action. I hope so. At the same time, there were a number of others who said that it was not so certain that those concerned could be condemned. If that were not the case, I hope that is the case, let that be clear, then we in Parliament should consider extending our legislation on private militias. I refer here to a legislative proposal that I tabled years ago and which we discussed extensively in this House. The opinion of many was that this was not necessary at the time. This is the test to see if it is necessary or not. After all, it would be strange for members of such an extreme right-wing club, which incites hatred and calls on people to commit violence, to be a criminal offence, whereas we would say to the association to which they belong that it may continue to exist. Minister of Justice, I would also like to talk about the role of state security. A terrorist report by Europol in June 2018, just a few months ago, shows that in Europe, and certainly in Belgium, there is a great danger of extreme right-wing youth groups condoning themselves under the heading of counter-terrorism. It is always about groups which, of course, do not call themselves racist, but which clearly hold Nazi opinions and activities. Moreover, they are groups that also maintain international contact with each other and have close links. Recently, the Belgian State Security warned of extreme right-wing vigilantes patrolling the streets to guard their own people. Mr Vermeulen has asked you and the Minister for the Interior about this. I have them here because I think the answers are contradictory. Mr Vermeulen had asked a lot of questions, but the question I would like to address is the following: "How is there an increase in the activity of the extreme left and the extreme right as a result of the presence of migrants, asylum seekers and persons with illegal status?" The same question was put to both ministers. The Minister of Justice replied very comprehensively and I take this answer from what is important for this particular point: "As a result of the refugee crisis in 2015-2016, intelligence and security services in several European partner countries have reported an increase in mobilisation and the activities of the far right. Belgium does not escape this tendency either." A little further, he says: "In Belgium, too, the refugee crisis has led to an increased activity of the extreme right." That is the answer of the Minister of Justice. What is the response of the Minister of the Interior, a Minister of N-VA signature? By the way, I have noted that the leader of the N-VA has just stated here that anyone who condemns one and conceals another loses all credibility. Now, Minister Jambon of the Interior replied: "From the recorded figures there is an increase in extreme left-wing activities following the presence of transmigrants." He also refers to reactions to lectures by Theo Francken and continues: "From a far-right angle, no activity has been recorded in relation to this problem." Now explain to me how it is possible for one minister to speak about the activities of the extreme left and the extreme right, while the N-VA Minister states that there is no problem with the extreme right, that there is nothing wrong. Gentlemen, I would like an answer from both of you today. You represent both the same government and you have the same figures for the State's security, while you publicly declare things contrary. This again ignores what is really happening in our society. I would like to make that clear. Minister of Justice, I have a few questions for you about the role of State Security. Some of the questions have already been asked, but I want to repeat them. When was the first time you were informed by the State Security about the worrying development of the association being discussed today? What follow-up did you order? How big is the cell in the Security of the State that succeeds the phenomenon of the far right? How many employees does that cell count? Has that cell had to hand over staff since 2012 to support the consequences of the terrorist threat of foreign and homegrown terrorist fighters? Do the additional resources released by the government since the attacks also provide financial space to strengthen the service that follows extremism? Finally, after I mentioned the role of the State's security, our colleague will be discussing the role of the Court of Justice in a moment, a few comments on a broader approach to racism, hatred and violence. As politicians, we must take the lead in this and not speak condolences about it. We must condemn this and give it the necessary consequences. We must stop constantly polarizing our society, setting up groups against each other and demonizing people. Those who do that today create a breeding ground for those who think they can preach hatred and violence. We have been looking forward to the National Action Plan against Racism of N-VA Secretary of State Demir for some time now. The Secretary of State said on the Seventh Day last Sunday that there will be no action plan against racism. Instead, there will be a society plan. First of all, I regret, of course, that there will be no action plan against racism. After the Pano reportage, it is clear to everyone today that our society does indeed have a problem with racism. The Secretary of State announced in January of this year that it would come up with an inter-federal action plan against racism and discrimination. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State himself is not here to answer, so I am addressing the Minister of the Interior. In what way will the society plan, as it is now called, act preventively and curatively on phenomena such as Shield & Friends? Have any concrete actions been developed since January? In the meantime, we're nine months later anyway. When will the social plan of Secretary of State Demir be presented to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u11	It goes without saying that the idea is free and that, as far as we are concerned, freedom of expression must be filled in as much as possible. But that right too is not absolute. For example, inciting violence, racism, hatred and discrimination is a criminal offence in our legislation. That is logical, because the rights of one person, if they were absolutely fulfilled, would jeopardise the rights of the other. That is why we have clearly set limits through our legislation. If you ask me, we have witnessed, in the Pano-reportage, at least misplaced remarks and expressions of unappreciable, personal feelings and similar actions. But it is not up to the committee or us to assess whether the expressions revealed in the report are free expression, or to encourage the committing of crimes, violence, hatred, racism or discrimination. It is up to the judiciary and the competent magistrates to decide on this at some point. They will have to determine whether all the material elements of the crimes that are prosecuted are effectively available. They will also have to decide whether the particular design is present. That is not up to us, ladies and gentlemen, but to the judiciary. That is also the clear limit that we have set and which we want to protect at all costs. In any case, there are a few questions I would like to put to the Ministers. Shield & Friends was apparently in the picture of the security services, but was not assessed as a direct risk to public security. Is that right? How do you see this in the light of the training camps that have taken place in Hungary? In 2018, do we have sufficient legal means to deal with the crimes we are talking about? One of the points that worries me is the interpretation of the concept of public character, which has already been mentioned in the media. In the light of the current criminalisation of the inciting of hatred, violence and racism, this concept is apparently well understood by the courts. It appears that it is not enough to be a member of a particular group to speak of a private place, so that there could be no public character to the expressions which may be reprehensible and should be prosecuted. I refer very strongly to the case-law of the Court of Cassation, which held that conversations held in the presence of different persons in a restricted place, which is, however, open to a certain number of persons who have the right to meet or visit them, and who have been able to hear conversations of honour, do not take place in a private place but do have a public character. In other words, membership would not be enough to speak of a private place. However, Minister, I have heard a number of contradictions in the media. It would be impossible to prosecute the statements, which may involve criminal acts or offences, when those acts take place within a chat group that is supposedly private. This element would stand in the way of pursuing such actions. I believe that the best clarity is made about this. Is the current interpretation of the regulation satisfactory? Is it sufficiently clear to actually address such reprehensible behavior? Minister, in addition to our concern about the interpretation of the penal law, I would like to refer here to the Prime Minister's announcement that he has instructed the National Security Council to strengthen the operational means in the fight against anti-Semitism, racism and xenophobia. Does this mean that these resources are insufficient today? What can we mean by "strengthening these resources"? What's it gonna take? How can the requirements be effectively met? Thirdly, it is reported that Schild & Friends would not appear in the latest Europol report on terrorism, which highlights the danger posed by a number of extreme right-wing organisations in our country. Why is this group not mentioned? Was the group in the scope of the investigation? What were the conclusions in the report, if any? As far as you can tell, I would like an explanation. Finally, in spite of statements by a number of colleagues, reprisals and repressive legislation are for me only the second choice. At least they're not the only solution. We have repeatedly stated this in the past, and I want to do it again today. How can we provide people with an answer to what concerns them daily and rightly, namely the questions of how to deal with migration, how to stop terrorism, what about our prosperity, and how to provide relief for the fear that exists today among a broad group of the population? I really do not think that we will be able to provide this answer by politicising extremism and by accusing certain political parties of dealing with the problem. We just need to depoliticize. What people are asking of us is that we offer them appropriate solutions to their questions and concerns. We will not do that by pointing our finger at each other and blaming each other for what is happening in our society today. We must unite and work together, across the borders of majority and opposition, to find answers to the questions that concern people and that worry them day in and day out about their future. Minister for Justice, Minister for the Interior, if our group can make a contribution to this, it will certainly do so. We will both support you in what you will do to put an end to racism, extremism and hatred. These things are reprehensible and we would like to ban them from our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as most of you have already pointed out, there was, of course, growing amazement about inhumanity among many who have looked at Pano's reportage. In that inhumanity people think they are superior to others. The logical conclusion is that they want to turn against those others and build an exclusive society. Colleagues, the surprise may be great, but it should not be a surprise. It remains my conviction, even today, that, in contrast to a vast majority in our country, which gives the best of itself, which gives people confidence and strengthens, at work, within the family and at night, in association life, and which holds our democracy, a minority which, I fear, is doing the opposite. It has been pointed out that the two ministers present have answered a parliamentary question about growing radicalism. Mr Laaouej, I commend the detailed reading of the answer to that parliamentary question. I do not have Mr Jambon's answer. I do have the Minister of Justice's answer with me. That answer refers to both left-wing extremism and right-wing extremism. For me, extremism is detestable, no matter what angle it comes from. Besides, friends and colleagues, this should not surprise us either. We have to admit that we have a history in our country both on the left and on the right. We must beware of examples, which we also know in our country, of various forms of extremism, in which an individualized madman gathers around a small group capable of causing great suffering. That's why we can't minimize what we've seen. We do not have a monopoly on extremism in our country. If we see what is happening abroad, in the United States, in our neighbouring countries such as France and Germany and in the former Eastern bloc, then we must see that there is international organisation. Among other things right-wing extremism is professionalizing and has a phenomenal budget of resources, sponsored from whatever angle. This is a danger to society, including our country's. I hear some colleagues asking the government how in the name of God it is possible for an excellent journalist to discover what our security services have failed to do. At the first moment I also immediately had that reflex. After a few days and with the answers we have already heard and read in the media, we have to admit that the Security of the State had them on the radar, but spoke more about public actions by Shield & Friends. This did not happen as a result of research into those closed chat groups. My first question is then: to what extent can we say that word here, whether moderate or not, or more moderate, or a little more moderate? Watch Facebook pages? This also applies to chat groups where things are less moderate and very extremist: how can we get in there better? There is also the OCAD that has its working groups on the extreme right and services that deepen into radicalism. If I understood correctly from the chief of the OCAD, they had already discussed this before. There are lists of extremist groups in the police force that need to be followed, and you will confirm that this group was already on that list. Colleagues, the call for more and more supervision of Jan and alleman, no matter how horrible the images have been, deserves some nuance. I also fit for a country in which our police and security services fully understand the private life of the good, modal Belgian and understand its privacy. In this context, there are also limits. Even if we read, hear or see something terrible, that border should be kept in mind with lasting attention. I pass for a Belgian Stasi. Despite the increasing pressure on the subject, I believe that we should beware of this. A colleague said just now that banning is not a solution and that the restriction of freedom of expression was undoubtedly a restriction of freedom of expression within the current legal instruments intended to be excluded from the solutions. Well, then I fully agree with him. That ruling applies regardless of the group and regardless of the expressed opinion, even though I do not like that opinion. No form of extremism, either left or right, will ever appeal to me as a Christian Democrat. The approach and assessment of the honourable Member is therefore the right one, and that applies to any form of extremism. Gentlemen of Justice and Home Affairs, I was glad to hear very quickly that the Ghent Public Prosecutor is taking responsibility for this. I think it's a good thing an investigating judge has been appointed. The past has shown that legal action can be successful. In previous legislatures legislative initiatives were taken, for example in connection with motorcycle gangs and Sharia4Belgium, which prohibited or prevented such associations. The Council of State has already stated at that time that such legislation is not clear, since it conflicts with freedom of association and, where appropriate, with freedom of expression. Legally correct and constitutionally sound solutions are therefore not so easy to find. In addition, examples in our country teach that we can ask questions about the gains or added value obtained when an association is banned, but then resurrect from its ashes with the same leaders under a different form or name. In the cases of Sharia4Belgium and Blood & Honour, legal actions have been successful. It is important that associations with undemocratic intentions are tackled by targeting their leaders and having them assessed individually, and if they have committed crimes condemned, by the Justice Department with respect for the rights of defence. In the examples I quoted, Minister of Justice, these files were federalised. That is not the case here. There may be no reason to do so either because there are no indications. Are there any grounds for federalising the files or not? This is a file that is now in Ghent, but it is also a file that may have been a sneaking poison for the whole of Flanders. To what extent can the court of Ghent, the investigating judge and the services in the district of East Flanders be supported? I would also like to talk to the two ministers about the new technologies that have also been used by Shield & Friends. We have learned in the committee of inquiry following the attacks that new technologies are not necessarily the cause of radicalism, but can often play a strengthening role. We have unanimously argued in Parliament that our country should play a leading role in investigating the links between these new technologies and radicalism. What has happened around here in the meantime? We have also advocated joint intelligence centers with a collaboration between the various services. This applies, of course, to Muslim extremistism but equally to other forms of extremism. Among other things, there has been talk of greater cooperation between public and private services, in particular between the government and operators. There was talk of a liaison officer and an online platform where extremist messages can be reported on platforms. There was talk about the organisation of a counter-discourse, whereby the security services and the government would be given access gates to play faster on the ball. What is the state of play on this matter? Apart from all this, I do not think we should see this independently from the brutality of our society, from flat populism and the lack of nuance. In my opinion, this is a collective responsibility. This should not be limited to politicians or the media; it should not be limited to education. This is a collective responsibility, but a large part of it lies with us. Complex problems deserve nuance. We have to stop scaring people. We have to stop turning people against each other. We must remember that what we say is important, but how we say it is at least as important. I do not wish to point a finger at anyone or anything, but I ask everyone here to look in the mirror. I ask everyone around us to encourage others, neighbours, relatives, friends, when faced with extremism, to point them out and ask them to stop. The challenge is not only to speak nuancedly, not only to debate nuancedly, but also to conquer the hearts of those who today are too receptive to a superiority feeling towards others. If we cannot regain those hearts, then that society will remain under pressure and then extremism will be at risk of growing. That's what we need to fight.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u13	Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to go back very long to the particularly ignoble facts that have sadly come to light in recent days. The essential thing has already been widely mentioned by my colleagues. Of course, a judicial investigation is under way, as are disciplinary proceedings. It will be up to the bodies concerned to shed light on the facts but also on the responsibilities of each other. However, what this VRT report has shown to us is deeply shocking. My party, the MR, obviously strongly condemns racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism, sexism, homophobia and any other form of incitement to the rejection of the other. This report has once again highlighted the fact that racism and anti-Semitism are unfortunately still relevant in our country. Combating such behaviour must be a priority from an early age. No, racism is not an opinion! This is a crime, which must be severely punished. The Prime Minister, Charles Michel, reacted directly on Thursday 6 September and denounced the ignoble behaviour of the extreme right-wing organisation Schild & Vrienden. He had already indicated that he had instructed the National Security Council to strengthen the operational instruments to combat anti-Semitism and racism. How can we combat these phenomena? Criminal policy circulars with a view to providing a priority and systematic response to the acts of denial, anti-Semitism and xenophobia, the adequacy of penalties, and a more effective and targeted approach to these phenomena on the Internet. This has been mentioned by my colleague Verherstraeten. These are many avenues, as many challenges to be met in order to guarantee but also to preserve our democracy. I think it is also essential to recall now, here, the importance of education in order to fight, as I said, from an early age against discrimination and, in particular, against racism and anti-Semitism. As part of this struggle, the MR has just tabled, on the initiative of my colleague Richard Miller, a proposal to combat the liberticide parties. The aim is to insert an article 27bis into the Constitution which would read as follows: "Political parties shall form themselves, shall operate freely under the conditions laid down by law. They shall not affect the free and democratic fundamental order of Belgium." This new article would complement existing Article 27 which enshrines freedom of association, but I will leave it to my colleague Richard Miller to tell you more about it. Ministers, I will conclude by asking you two questions. What short- and medium-term measures do you intend to take to improve our tools to combat racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism, sexism and homophobia? Can you clarify how the State Security provides surveillance of extremist groups active in our territory? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u14	Madam President, I have a few more questions for the Minister of Justice. Mr Minister, on Thursday morning you announced that the Ghent court would open an investigation into the matter. Even if the investigation is classified, I still have the next question. The court of Ghent and not the federal court was elected. This seems somewhat strange and quite inexplicable to us. Schild & Vrienden has members and sympathizers all over Flanders and the organisation also has clear plans concerning our Belgian state structure. The organisation introduced a member stop at 800 members because it was no longer able to strengthen the administration. It has 25 000 likers and 28 000 followers. Then why is the investigation actually being led by Ghent and not by the federal prosecutor? Has an investigation been initiated against the Schild & Friends organisation itself or only against certain members of it? What are the charges? Are they suspects who have a judicial history of spreading or inciting racism, negationism and sexism? Or are they suspects against whom a complaint has ever been made in the past, but which has never been followed up? Since the reportage and the opening of the judicial investigation have new complaints against the organisation or against the members of Schild & Friends been received? We hear all kinds of questions from every group here. It is very good that we do this on a rainy afternoon. Can you also tell us, Ministers, how we are going to proceed with the subject after today? After all, it won't stop. It is very important that we draw up structural laws that can act forcefully and quickly, so that we do not have to hear stories again that, for example, an organisation, such as Shield & Friends, cannot be dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u15	I would like to say a word about my initiative and that of my group to introduce a bill shortly ago. I will listen to the ministers' answers very carefully on this point: we are all aware of the difficulty of addressing the issue of freedom of expression. It is a Liberal who says so, it is an extremely sensitive subject on which no provision can be made. I heard my colleague Mr. De Roover insists on freedom of expression and ideas. This is obviously an essential part of our democratic system. In view of the anti-Semitic acts and statements that have been included in this report, I believe that we should reread the Reflections on the Jewish Question of Jean-Paul Sartre on the right to express ideas. Indeed, he explains, which is essential to me, that anti-Semitism is not an idea, but a bad passion, a sad passion, a crime. It seems to me that among parliamentarians, among democrats, we must try to think about rationally addressing this concern. I have therefore tabled a text with the sole wish that it bring the debate between us and that together we can find the best possible answer against these liberticide groups that we are seeing growing. That is also why I plead for us to try to resume the debate in public on the inclusion of the values we want in our Constitution. The aim is to give more foundation, constitutional means to our forces of law and order, to the public authority to fight against such acts in a democratic way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u16	Mr President, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I reject and strongly condemn any form of racism, sexism, discrimination, xenophobia, anti-Semitism, in short, the propagation of hatred in any form. In an open, liberal society, that can never be tolerated. For the sake of clarity of the debate, I will outline how the services for which I am responsible, namely the integrated police and the OCAD, operate in cases of extremism and hatred. Any kind of hatred and inciting hatred, extremism and terrorism, whether on the right, the left, religious or anything else, must be combated. For the answer to the party political questions of some of you on the list of my party, I refer to the party chairman's reply, which I am one hundred percent behind. That does not need to be repeated here. I think my competence as Minister of the Interior is different. First of all, how do the police work? First of all, I would like to remind you of the specific training courses which have been dealt with in the questions raised by MM. Laaouej, Dallemagne and Hedebouw. Education in the fight against racism, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance is part of the basic training of police officers. In particular, they learn to collect, process, analyse and disseminate information on the above phenomena. In addition, they are taught what constitutes anti-discrimination and anti-racism offences with a view to verbalizing them. In addition, specific training on these topics has been organized for staff already in place since 2007. Similarly, other specific training courses are intended for reference persons in matters of discrimination and hate crimes, which are active in police areas. The European Union Agency for the Training of Law Enforcement Officers - CEPOL, the European Police College - is responsible for developing, implementing and coordinating the training of law enforcement officers. It has made available educational material on hate crimes through online and physical courses. Local actions are organised according to the sensitivities of those responsible. The Federal Police has a "Equality and Diversity" service, which also provides related courses. The i2-IRU also participates actively in the European Commission's work on combating hate speech. At the moment, there is not yet an exact definition of what hate speech is, so not yet a criminal offence. The Commission, the Member States and various partners have set themselves the task of drawing up a correct and legally applicable definition which, at the end of this work, should lead to a recommendation. To answer Mr. Laaouej's first two questions, as well as those of Mr. Hedebouw, which dealt with the slogans within the Federal Police: the Directorate for Combating Serious and Organised Crime (DJSOC) has an i2-IRU (Internet Reference Unit) section, which deals autonomously with the detection and surveillance of freely accessible information on the Internet - hence open sources - relating to propaganda, terrorism, radicalism and violent extremism. This section i2-IRU is designated as a national operational IRU SEO contact point, with a view to requesting the removal of illegal content and accounts. In addition, since November 2016, the i2-IRU has independently detected and monitored open-source information related to hate crimes and hate speech, i.e. hate crimes and hate speech. The criteria used are the elements constituting infringements of: 1. The Act to Combat Certain Forms of Discrimination (Act of 10 May 2007); 2. The Act of 30 July 1981 on the punishment of certain acts motivated by racism or xenophobia; 3. the law reforming regimes relating to transgender persons with regard to the mention of a change in the registration of sex in civil status documents and its effects (Act of 25 June 2017). Measures were being taken to combat racism. It is common for Unia to react to such events and, having legal competence, to be brought to justice. The police and the judiciary are also active in the fight against racism on the basis of the Act of 30 July 1981, as amended by the Act of 10 May 2007 to punish certain acts inspired by racism or xenophobia. The perpetrators identified are prosecuted. Victims can file a complaint with the police, who will prepare a report and forward it to the territorially competent judicial authorities. In November 2016, at the joint request of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice, the i2-IRU section of the Directorate for Combating Serious and Organised Crime of the Federal Police was designated as the "single point of contact" (SPOC) in the area of IRU listing, with a view to soliciting withdrawals of content and accounts meeting the criteria for online hate speech and crime. This alert shall be sent to the relevant platforms which are invited to remove the discovered content. In 2017, the section reported 267 illegal content and 103 were removed by the platforms. In 2018 (including August), the section reported 114 illegal content and 84 were removed by the platforms. If, in the course of its IRU tasks, section i2-IRU discovers a Belgian interest (i.e. a legal or natural person, a place or institution connected with Belgium and situated in the national territory or not), it will contact the territorially competent police service. According to the wishes of the department contacted, section i2-IRU will denounce the facts found by the writing of a report or minutes. Since its inception in early 2016, the i2-IRU has handled 43 hate speech cases, providing support to integrated police or judicial units. What has been done? The explanation of what the judicial police have done will be left to my colleague Geens in a moment. A judicial investigation is currently being carried out by an investigating judge. However, I can explain what the administrative police have done. Schild & Friends started to be in the spotlight of police forces last year following some posts on their Instagram account. More specifically, the coordination and support service of the DirCo Antwerpen created the group Schild & Vrienden in the administrative database BEPAD on 27 October 2017 following a student demonstration. A brief description was added, which reads as follows: "Want to profile as a'securer' at meetings of KVHV, NSV and Jong-N-VA and also participate in events of those groups. They will not provoke or disobey the forces of order." On 10 November 2017, i2-IRU will prepare a report on the social media channels of Schild & Friends. That report contains no indications of any extremist intentions. From 15 February 2018, Schild & Vrienden will be listed under the item "General Identity." On 12 April 2018, the notification will receive feedback following actions by Voorpost and Schild & Vrienden with the clear indication "actions seemed good." The police did notice that the group was quite right-oriented and was rather provocative towards other groups, especially left-wing groups. This was also confirmed by last year's actions, in which Shield & Friends tried to thwart left-wing organizations in delivering their message. As Minister of the Interior, it is up to me to draw up an annual list of phenomena and groups to follow. That list is presented to me on a joint proposal from the federal police, the OCAD and the intelligence and security services. The last approved list dates from 24 July 2018. That list did not include Shield & Friends at that time. The justification of entities to be selected is essentially based on the following criteria. The grouping must be linked to one or more events or events, to persons or to messages which are disseminated and which represent a concrete interest for public order, or the grouping is part of a broader social phenomenon and is followed in the context of public order within that phenomenon together with its members. The analysis of the information obtained will have to show each year whether certain groups actually have a specific interest in maintaining public policy and should be retained, added or removed from the ministerial list. In view of the limited seriousness of the facts, the Schild & Friends movement was not proposed on the ministerial list of the groups to be followed. However, the open social media pages were regularly reviewed for public order and security incidents. However, following the reportage of Pano and the recent developments, the group will be added to the list of phenomena and groups to follow. How does the OCAD work? First of all, the inclusion of hate propagandaists in the common database has been possible since early 2018, in a trial phase, and legally regulated since the Royal Decree of 23 April 2018. Previously, a recording in the joint information box under similar criteria was possible. The purpose of the common database is to cross information so that a common follow-up and approach can be achieved. The definition of hate propaganda, a definition of 22 May 2018, refers to the Royal Decree of 23 April 2018. (a) to harm the principles of democracy or human rights, the proper functioning of democratic institutions or other foundations of the rule of law; The definition is based on the criteria previously used to include a person or organisation in the joint information box of the Plan R. As far as scope and method are concerned, the law on the common database makes the legal scope very clear: extremism can lead to terrorism. The definitions of extremism and terrorism are those of the law on intelligence and security services. There is no reference in that law to the nature of the phenomenon, religious, ideological or anything else. The inclusion in the common database shall be based solely on the information provided by the services. The possible inclusion of an entity in the common database shall be on a proposal from a basic service, in particular the Security of the State, the ADIV, the police or the OCAD, which shall produce an information sheet for that purpose. The other basic services may enrich the information with their own information. The validation of whether or not the entity is included as a hate propagandist is then done after an evaluation by the OCAD, after consultation and in concert with the services. But the OCAD makes the decision. The number of hate propagandaists included in the common database is ninety, including fifteen foreign preachers, sixteen hate preachers from the extreme left, four of which are linked to the Turkish problem, seven hate preachers from the far right, one of which is linked to the Turkish problem, and about forty of others, mainly Islamic. That was the situation on September 11, 2018. What did the OCAD do about Shield & Friends? No basic service I have just listed which one of them has created an information sheet about Schild & Friends on the basis of his own information. The OCAD did have information obtained from the police, which is a report from the police of East Flanders about the action of Schild & Friends on 3 March 2018 at the Gravensteen and a RIR of the police zone 5345 of 10 March 2018 with code 01, unauthorized security orders from Schild & Friends at lectures by the State Secretary. On 1 March and 26 April 2018, there were two consultations in the Working Group on Right Extremism of the Plan R, but they did not lead to a inclusion in the common database. However, it was noted that Shield & Friends and similar-minded people are referred to as Generation Identity............................................................................................................................................. They operate in a grey zone, do not use violence, are radical but not extremist, although there are a number of extreme right-wing figures. The threat posed by the extreme right-wing ideology was and is currently assessed as low by the OCAD. Extremely right-wing incidents, such as Germany, were almost unnoticed in our country, all the more so because the extreme right in our country is only weakly organized and has little coherence in terms of violence. That's the information that comes from the services. Before and after the reportage were prepared by the OCAD threat analyses, because the VRT-makers of the reportage felt threatened. Tim Verheyden, the programmer, filed a complaint for threats. Last weekend, the OCAD set a level 2 regarding the journalist on the basis of the latest information. Mr. Hedebouw, you asked about Generation Identity. The Identitarian Movement is a pan-European movement that advocates the preservation of national identity and a return to traditional western values. The movement has representatives in several European countries. The movement began in 2002 in France as a conservative youth movement based on the French Nouvelle Droite Génération Identity. The Identitary Movement is a separate collection of originally French ethno-nationalist political action groups such as Génération Identitaire and Bloc Identitaire. The movement has several groups with more or less similar names, depending on the region or country. Some of these groups have been identified in Belgium. Some have even been prosecuted by the court. Generation Identity has a website, a Twitter page and a Facebook page. The content of those pages, although targeted, remains legal. The profile has been in existence since 6 May 2016. The announced meeting places are mainly in Ghent, the city where the movement is located. The security of the State shall be responsible for the control and supervision of those groups. Minister Nothing will say more about that. Mr Vanden Burre, your first question is not within my competence. I therefore refer you to the reply of the President of my party. To answer your second question, which falls within the competence of Mrs Demir, I will give you the answer of the Secretary of State. I would like to take this opportunity to answer Mr Dallemagne's various questions, which are also within his competence. With regard to equal opportunities policy and the adaptation of anti-discrimination laws, normally the evaluation of legislation was to take place in 2012. Finally, the commission was composed through the Royal Decree of 6 July 2016. A first report was sent to Parliament in June 2017. A hearing session was held in November 2017 and March 2018. The final report is scheduled for 2021. The draft law on various anti-discrimination measures is currently being drafted on the basis of the interim report. The work undertaken by the Secretary of State is more important than it should have been. Indeed, Ms. Demir was only required to make up the commission. Bills are discussed internally with the Secretary of State before a proposal is submitted to the Council of Ministers. With regard to the social plan or plan of action against racism, in the wake of the 2001 Durban Conference, Belgium undertook to draw up a plan against racism, which is not yet the case today, in particular because previous Governments have not been working on such a plan. The Secretary of State made the deliberate choice to first develop the LGBT action plan and then the social plan or plan against racism that she is currently working on. In the light of social developments, it is important to extend it to all forms of racism and discrimination. It will therefore be a fully-fledged social plan. What has been done in this regard? At the level of the Department of Major Cities Policy and Social Integration, the SPP Social Integration organized a study day on the prevention of radicalism that took place on 20 September 2016. The same will apply in October 2018. Home Affairs also organises a day on 18 October 2018. With regard to the training which falls within the competence of Mr Ducrame, the SPP Social Integration has released 100,000 euros to organise training on radicalism in CPAS. As far as scientific policy is concerned, there is an ongoing survey entitled 'BRAIN'. On the one hand, there is an assessment of the impact of Belgian deradicalisation policies on social cohesion and freedoms. This project runs from 1 January 2017 to 15 April 2021. The budget is EUR 718,000. Coordination is provided by a UCL professor, Fabienne Brion, and the promoters are Sofie de Kimpe (VUB) and Charlotte Vanneste (INCC). The second aspect is the study Populations, Authorities and Radicalism: between polarization and social construction. This project also started in early 2017 and will end on March 31, 2021. The budget is €690,000. The coordination is carried out by Professor Jean-Benoit Pilet of the ULB. The promoters are Nadia Fadil (KUL), Benjamin Mine, Patrick Jeuniaux and Isabelle Detry (INCC). There is also a constructive analysis of attitudes, policies and programs with respect to radicalization. The project ends on December 14, 2018. The budget is 700,000 euros. The coordinator is Ivo Aertsen (KUL). Another study: Public opinion, mobilizations and policies concerning asylum seekers and refugees in an anti-immigration context. This project started at the end of 2016 and will end at the end of 2020. The budget is also in the order of 700,000 euros. There's the future BRAIN investigation. This theme offers opportunities in the future BRAIN-2 programme, in order to deepen the topic of migration – the flow, the legal framework, societal issues. On the security side, it is the tension between security and individual rights and freedoms. In the theme of 'power and democracy': distrust in current democratic institutions and increasing polarization between social groups. All these initiatives are taken by the Secretary of State to achieve this corporate plan. This may still be part of an exchange of views with the Secretary of State. Questions have been asked on the basis of my answers and those of Mr None of them to Mr Vermeulen's written question. This is about two different things. In my reply I mentioned the recorded events in the police database, the ANG. I only replied to the question about the recorded data in the police database. I conclude by saying that last Friday the Strategic Committee on Intelligence and Security, in preparation for the National Security Council, examined the matter. They concluded that the services gave a correct follow-up and paid attention to the group in question, Shield & Friends. The legal arsenal is adequate and the structures established have been correctly used. Structures mean the operation of the services and the means of joint monitoring.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u17	I would like to join with all of you, and of course with Mr Jambon, in condemning the elements revealed by the Pano reportage. I've done that publicly in the media. Many of you have asked what more can be done. I will, of course, try to address most of your questions in detail, but my basic conclusion remains the same, namely that we have reached the limit on banning certain forms of expression. As you know, the government has tried to introduce a more stringent provision in the field of the glorification of terrorism than the one that preceded it. Despite the pressure of many parties to go further, the Constitutional Court has made us bite in the sand. This means that there is a tendency, from a European point of view, in both the case law and at the level of the Commission and the Council of Europe, not to go further in this area. Our legislation is quite efficient in terms of the description of the crime and allows much to be done by the public prosecutors and our judges. My personal opinion after the experiences I have had with regard to terrorism, where the Constitutional Court has flagged us back, would be: let us not go further in this respect. However, I would like to say that in the draft new Criminal Code, all these facts, whether they are inciting racism, discrimination, negationism, xenophobia or sexism, fall into category 2 and are therefore, in any case, punishable by imprisonment from one year onwards. It is not, therefore, the case that the government underestimates the crimes of opinion, as one might call them, or the crimes of opinion. On the contrary. A second point on which I will go into more detail later is whether additional information methods or research methods are necessary. Should we go any further? I would like to remind you that during 2016-2017 we adopted important legislation to bring the new research and intelligence methods to a full technological level. We have gone further in this respect for our judicial services than for the security services. We have at the moment, before the facts of Schild & Friends have become known for all clarity, a draft containing various criminal provisions under investigation at the Council of State and which gives the State Security a number of additional possibilities in the field of internet infiltration, for example, which do not yet exist. That is not to say, and I will try to make that clear, that the fact that the State's security did not follow that chat group from within is due to a lack of methods. I'm not the biggest fan of flame politics. If I tried, some members of the opposition would certainly blame me. We are simply trying to bring our methods to the right level and to the right level. We are still working on that. I do not dare to comment on the methods used by journalists to find out in this case what happened in that chat group, but we can also use informants. Since recently, Parliament has passed a law which would also allow the civilian infiltration of the judicial police. It is therefore not the case that the means do not exist to do what should be done if necessary. The question of why this did not happen is a question which concerns you. I want to try to answer that. However, it is a little too easy every time something comes to light that the light had not yet seen, to ask why we did not know it. In that case, we would know everything. If our society is completely transparent, it would be particularly unpleasant. If you could look at me that way, I wouldn't like that. After all, I have all kinds of things that I would rather you had no knowledge of, some minor defects, which would then become apparent. We must therefore be careful to ask immediately why something had not been known. During the summer, Mr Jambon and I replied as sincerely as possible to the question put by the chairman of the Committee on the Interior. Because it was cucumber time then, the question received more attention than usual. However, the answers were very sincere. I understand from the extreme right that I must leave the extreme left to Mr Jambon, which is a joke, ladies and gentlemen, because we are so serious... I'm sorry. I apologize, Mr. Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u18	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u19	Not at all! You're trying to argue at a time when it's not allowed. That's it! Mr Laaouej, you have tried to sow the discord between the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. I answer it with a little joke that you can't stand. I apologise for that. To tell you everything, what we did in response is a little what Mr. De Roover asked earlier, saying, "What publicity gives the State Security to what it finds and what could be communicated to the public?" We do so, among other things, through parliamentary scrutiny. If you read this response from the Minister of Justice, you will find all the far-right facts that have taken place with violent attacks in Europe, Canada and the United States recently. You will see that the State Security is vigilant with regard to the far right. For the far left, our vigilance is the same, it's obvious. You will also see the condemnation that one may have in relation to the facts that have been committed. All we do in this report is to say, in this very extensive answer, as the mayor of Lommel, Mr Vanvelthoven, said, that all we find in this is that there is indeed a threat. There is indeed something that for the moment does not work. The cause of all this for all of us is quite clear. There is an escalation of opinion that has become a war of opinion through terrorism and migration. As Mr. From Roover, we go further and further, and at some point, that's what I said when I replied to the VRT: "Listen, it can't be astonished or surprised - as Mr Verherstraeten said - that this takes place after everything that has been said in public, after all the communications that we have allowed ourselves. At some point, people are overreacting and it's a shame that this has happened." Then I come to the knowledge of the security of the state. For the sake of clarity, since 2012, Shield & Friends have been noted by the Security of the State. I mean that the founder has since been followed, because Shield & Friends only existed since 2017. The group has been succeeded since May 2017. Why has the State Security not used the special methods it could have used, if any, because the legislation allowed it to do so? State Security didn't do that because she didn't have an indication of criminal offences. If she doesn't, she's not gonna break into the Internet either, which makes sense. It was also the reason why the State Security did not inform the federal prosecutor. Many of you are members of the 'Terrorist attacks' committee. You know that this is dealt with in Article 29a of the Code of Criminal Procedure and that it is only when criminal offences could have been committed that the Security of the State informs the public. That didn't happen. There are arrangements for that. I come to an important point. As you all know, we have set up local task forces per district, where all the services speak to each other: the federal police, the local police, the public prosecutors. At that level, which is an answer to a question from Mr De Roover, the information is shared, but only if there is a reason to believe that there could be an incentive to violence or a threat. As far as the extreme right is concerned in general, I refer to the answer given by the Minister of Justice to the question put by the chairman of the Committee on the Interior, Mr Vermeulen. At that time I indicated that there was an Ideological Extremism cell in the Security of the State, which deals with both the right and the left and which, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 7 and 8 of the Law of 30 November 1998, follows concrete instructions regarding the follow-up of those services. The organigram is classified. I cannot give you this, but the Security of the State has played a leading role at European and international level by presenting in September 2007 in the context of the Bern Club the question of how these new identity groups such as Schild & Friends in Belgium, Génération Identitaire in France or Identitäre Bewegung in Germany in Western Europe can be tackled. After all, European intelligence services are all struggling with this new form of extreme right-wing bespoke suit. The security of the State has therefore warned against this and that has come out in a number of clear contexts. I cannot say much more about this, since it could jeopardise the secrecy of the work of the State's Security, which is certainly not the intention, but it is clear that initiatives have been taken in this area. About the weapons, they were asked whether there has been sufficient control. Well, recently we in the Chamber reviewed the legislation on arms. When issuing permits, the local police will certainly take note of the ANG database and of the Criminal Register, which will be incorporated into the opinion. Secret information from the State Security cannot be consulted. That seems relatively obvious, because this consultation would jeopardise the functioning of the State's own security. The existence of photos of people with firearms, to partially respond to MM. Vanden Burre and Van Hecke, do not mean that these people possess the weapons in question. The investigation will show what's going on. It is possible that some photos were taken at shooting stands in Belgium or elsewhere. In this respect, it should be recalled that Belgian legislation has long allowed every citizen to experience the use of a firearm once a year in a shooting booth and under the supervision of a monitor, without the need for a permit. I would like to give you these elements to say that the photographs do not necessarily involve offences, because we do not know whether the person concerned was in possession of those weapons and because we are not sure whether there was repeated use. I cannot go into the operational details of the investigation and comment on specific images involving the presence or even use of firearms. As far as the criminal investigation is concerned, I am, once again, held to great silence, considering that the secret of the investigation must control my communication to you. I am informed by the Public Prosecutor's Office of East Flanders that several searches have been carried out. To answer your questions on criminality, I can confirm that the offences retained at this stage by the Public Prosecutor's Office are incitement to hatred, discrimination, violence, negationism, certain offences under the Arms Act and the association of criminals. It seems to me important to note that our criminal law is already equipped in terms of criminality, which have been discussed at length and maintain a balance with freedom of expression and association. I'm not sure someone asked me a question about the legislation on private militias. In any event, it will be up to the prosecution to decide whether or not to prosecute on that basis. The condition for the implementation of this law is the existence of an organization of individuals whose purpose is to resort to force, to replace the army or the police, to interfere in their actions or to substitute for them. Mrs Lambrecht, on the competence of the federal court, I would point out that if the proper administration of justice so requires, the federal court is responsible, inter alia, for the investigation and prosecution of terrorism, for the import, export and transit of arms, ammunition and materials specially used for military use, and for the related technology, as well as for crimes which are, to a large extent, different jurisdictions or have an international dimension, in particular the dimension of organised crime. In the present case, the facts which so far appear are not such as to qualify them as terrorism or as other facts for which the federal court is competent. The facts are not such that the federal court could bring added value in terms of the proper administration of justice. The arrondissementan prosecutors have a great deal of experience with the issue of arms, racism, discrimination and negationism. Moreover, the District Court of East Flanders is competent to investigate crimes committed in connection with the crimes committed in East Flanders. So we will see if it will be later this will be decided by the federal attorney himself if it is appropriate to federalise the investigation. After all, nothing prevents the federal court from drawing the file to itself. The joint consideration of such matters by the various security services within our State is, as I have just said, the subject of, among other things, the National Plan Radicalism or the Plan R, which the parliamentary committee which succeeds the Committee I or the Committee R knows. This is, of course, followed up in the context of the national and local task forces in which the various services meet. In particular with regard to the fight against racism, which was the subject of the questions put by Messrs. Vanden Burre, Laaouej and Hedebouw, the College of Attorneys General was not in a position, within these short deadlines, to provide statistics on the number of cases opened to the prosecution. With regard to criminal policy in this area, I would like to draw your attention to Circular COL 13/2013 of 17 June 2013 on research and prosecution policy on discrimination and hate crimes. The latter prohibits the classification without further action for reasons of opportunity. In the most serious cases, the referral to an investigating judge for a warrant of arrest or the direct summons of the author to the correctional court is recommended. Other possibilities for reaction, including criminal mediation, are referred to the magistrate. At its meeting on 17 October 2017, the College of Attorneys General repeated to the Public Prosecutor's Office that, on grounds of expediency, there should be no prosecution of acts of discrimination and racial hatred. With regard to the incidents at the Pukkelpop festival and the prosecutions initiated by the Public Prosecutor's Office, I can inform you, on the basis of information provided by the Public Prosecutor's Office, that the perpetrators of this incident have been brought before the prosecutor's office and have been subject to conditions. These are really tailor-made according to the facts and personality of the suspects. Besides the classical conditions - do not commit new facts, react to the invitations - they must make a accompanied visit to the Dossin barracks in Malines, which was a gathering camp of the Jews during the German occupation, and draw up a detailed report for the prosecutor's office. A question has been asked about our efforts to combat "hate speech" on the Internet. This subject is vast. Three aspects deserve our attention. First of all, cooperation with providers who manage key social media and who must be able to remove hate speech content. In this respect, I am very much in line with the monitoring carried out by the European Commission on the basis of the code of conduct to which the main players have acceded. It is necessary to maintain pressure and dialogue in order to increase efficiency without, however, falling into censorship, with always the German example repressive towards providers as a possible solution if cooperation does not work. The second aspect again concerns cooperation with the providers, but this time in the identification of the authors of hat speech. I have already had the opportunity to stress the Belgian efforts to obtain European legislation and a partnership with the United States in this regard. Belgian legislation (the Yahoo legislation) has been adapted but a European framework is needed in this area. The Cloud Act was voted in the United States extremely quickly. As far as we are concerned, we are slow. We should be faster to keep up with developments. Indeed, it can arm us to fight the anonymous use of social media. The third aspect relates to investigative measures. Both in terms of intelligence and the judiciary, the latter were perfected under this legislature. Moreover, Belgian law is one of the most modern in this field. Mention should also be made of the creation of a specific unit within the Federal Police for the removal of content on the Internet and for social media investigations. I refer to my colleague Mr Jambon. The tools at the repressive level therefore exist. We continue to improve them, but the development of social media and hate speech on the Internet means that the problem goes far beyond the question of repression. This is one of the aspects that must undoubtedly be addressed in the action plan on combating racism announced by the Secretary of State, Mrs Demir, which we fully support. If this initiative falls to her, we intend to contribute to this plan within our jurisdiction. As regards the description of the offence, to which Mrs Van Cauter referred earlier, the inciting of discrimination, the inciting of hatred or violence, the inciting of discrimination or segregation against a group, a community or its members, the inciting of hatred or violence against a group, a community or its members on the basis of one of the criteria protected is governed by the legislation of 1981, as amended in 2007. Mr Jambon also referred to this. It is important to make it clear that an element of openness will always be required. It is dangerous to talk about this, Mrs Van Cauter, in the context of an ongoing criminal investigation, but you asked the question. I feel that, according to the case law, closed chat groups can indeed fall under Article 444 of the Criminal Code and are therefore considered public. The case law in this document seems to be sufficiently broad. I would also point out that membership of a group or association which clearly and repeatedly declares discrimination or segregation on the grounds of racism is a separate crime, which is sanctioned by our legislation, regardless of the initiation of hatred or violence against a group. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that I have answered many of your questions in this way. Finally, let me mention the various methods of investigation available to the State's security. The use of informants is already possible for the State Security, such as hacking to enter a group cat, for example. Since 2017, we have extended this possibility to extremism. Previously, it was only possible in cases of terrorism or espionage. It is a means now available to the State Security to combat extremism, which is a good thing. The various provisions that I was talking about at the beginning of my presentation will clarify the competence of the State Security to maintain contacts in the virtual world through some kind of infiltration on the Internet. I have noted a few more questions that may deserve an answer. Mr Van Hecke, I am not sure whether a human rights institute will make a huge contribution to better prosecution, but I am glad that you keep pointing out my shortcomings. We are currently preparing the legislation on this subject together with Mr Demir, who has not been here as long as you have just given the impression. The deadline for the government is early December; you can be sure that the Human Rights Institute will be set up. Colleagues, I would very much like to endorse what Mr Verherstraeten has said. I have been completely in favour of free speech for a long time, but it is very important how we express our opinion. Everyone has to take that into account; no one has to teach others in this respect. I don't want to argue for the youth. I would certainly like to speak in favour of youth in general. I certainly do not want to argue in favour of being too generous in relation to what is happening here, quite the contrary. As I said on the radio: I saw it when I was young, in similar groups and in an equally terrible way. The language we use, not just politicians, but everyone who addresses the public, is very often not the right example for those young people. Without being paternalistic in any way, I think we all have an exemplary role to play in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u20	Mr President, we were expecting political answers to the problem. We have had statistical answers, not to say bureaucratic answers, with descriptions of organization charts, missions of the different services, which we could find ourselves on the various websites. You will understand that we are particularly disappointed that two representatives of the authority of the State, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice, do not come to Parliament today before this committee to recall the importance of the principles that underpin democracy. Beyond just a condemnation of the few facts that we have mentioned, which is the least of all, we must remember that in the face of the proliferation of facts, and given the seriousness of the facts, there is the need for mobilization at the highest level of the State of our institutions, in order to ensure that evil is eradicated. No: we had descriptions. I am not going to put the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice on the same level. But the Minister of the Interior, as I asked him the question of his impartiality, today demonstrates to me that he is not impartial in the exercise of his function as Minister of the Interior. And we understand why, in view of what we learn from day to day about the presence in his party of neo-fascist elements, which are clearly derived from this ideology, with explicit references to "great figures", if I may say, fascism in Europe. Mr President, this clearly means that we have a second point to make: everything we have been seeing for a number of months, not to say years, has not come from anywhere. Mr Jambon, you and your colleague Mr Franken have created the moral conditions, or should I say immoral, of the soil on which these extreme right-wing movements, these fascist movements thrive. You have a direct political responsibility! Some take us to the field of legalism and legal controversy by saying: "Finally, racist speech still remains an opinion. But what is criminally condemned - we are being made to believe - is incitement to hatred." Go and read the Penal Code again! It clearly states that the dissemination of ideas on the "superiority of races" – a questionable concept – is in itself an offence. This means that someone who posts on social networks a post affirming "racial superiority" is a criminal offence. We need to be clear about this. Mr. From Roover, I see that you are trying, through the reference to several fundamental principles enshrined in the Constitution, to tell us that there is a tension between individual freedoms - freedom of expression in particular - and racist discourse. No, freedom stops where the law states an exception. When the latter provides that a speech that affirms "racial sovereignty" constitutes a criminal offence, freedom stops. Thus, when Theo Francken relayed, on social networks, statements establishing a hierarchy between certain groups according to their so-called "added value", he was in racism and engaged in its dissemination. It was already a criminal offence! But all this has gone blue, if I may say so. There lies the fundamental vice, the original sin, if I may say so, Mr Geens; and you will certainly understand me about it more than any other. That is the problem, Mr Geens: you have let it happen, you have accepted this trivialisation of the ignoble. Some, of course, are inspired by it. Indeed, when the example comes from above, it confers legitimacy on racist speech. What we want to know today is not what each department in the organization chart does. Moreover, Mr. Jambon, the figures relating to the number of cases opened and transmitted to the prosecution are not very impressive. Let's say it! Today we want to hear the affirmation of the mobilisation of the State's resources for the eradication of the problem, i.e. a genuine plan of action. We are currently talking about a great investment pact, but we need a plan to invest democratic values! That is what we need, gentlemen of the government. It must also be accompanied by close cooperation between the authorities of that country. I'll tell you frankly. I hear the Minister of Justice. I take note of what he's telling me, but at the same time, Mr. Jambon, I'm going to tell you things as I think they are. Today I will rely more on the awareness of another power which is not yours and which is the judiciary. I hope he does his job. You're telling us that you're taking matters into your own hands, but I don't expect much from you, Mr. Jambon, and I'm not going to pour in the ease of talking about your past, which is also a liability. No! I stick to your ambiguities in measuring the problem of the resurgence of extreme right-wing and neo-fascist formations. This is where I doubt your credibility and impartiality. That, Mr President, is what I want to say to you, but you will understand that I am leaving this committee without being reassured. I think that, clearly, today, with Mr Jambon, the far right has good days ahead of it, but days that will be tragic for the whole country!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u21	Gentlemen, thank you for your answers. Not all my questions were answered, I will come back to them at the end. I am not reassured by the answers when it comes to the substance of the matter, in particular the role of our security services. Minister Jambon explained that the last update of the list the police used for the groups to be followed dates from 24 July 2018, and that Shield & Friends was not included in that list. For me, it is clear that the security services have missed it because they, and we come back to this every time, have only looked at what is known to the public in, for example, a Facebook message or during a manifestation, making an assessment of whether a group is dangerous or risky enough to be included in a list. If the Minister of Justice says that the Security of the State had no data or indication of criminal offences, then this is only true when one looks at a public site. This is a circular reasoning, because as long as we do not know whether criminal offences are being committed, we will not go on. But the offences are only committed in the non-visible part. So one can look forever and ever at the Facebook group and never discover a crime unless someone makes a mistake... because one is so smart to commit the crimes in a closed group. So what lessons do we learn from this? These organizations are smart. You have referred to other international organisations such as the Alt-right movement. They know very well what one can or cannot do on the public forum. In the meantime, we also know what is happening on the non-public forum. A strategy for this will therefore have to be developed, because if we continue to look only at the Facebook groups, we will wait for Godot. You're saying we don't need any new methods. I fully agree with you. I didn't argue for it either. However, every time you come to Parliament, you say how necessary it is to use additional methods in the police or intelligence services. Parliament always allows us to move forward. I note, however, that it has not been used in this case, because there was a wait for evidence of a crime, whereas it is only by applying these methods that this crime can be discovered. It is therefore necessary to think about a strategy for these and other associations, in which we have no idea what is happening behind the scenes. I had asked questions about the role of the local task forces, because they should also follow extremism. You replied very briefly in the sense that there was some information there, but that it was not quite clear to you what information was circulating there. My question is: how concrete was this information? The Security of the State sits at the table with the local task forces, there too information could be obtained that could have been useful. To what extent has everything been shared with all services in order to arrive at a proper analysis of the situation? Finally, and before talking about the unanswered questions about weapons, I remember the last amendment to the arms law well. There is an important task for the local police: in particular, the district agent will have to give advice because he has knowledge of the person concerned. Of course, the local police will have no knowledge of people moving in those groups. The district agent or the local police have no knowledge of this, but the policemen working in the local task forces at another level will have more knowledge. The facts that are circulating there will not yet be in the ANG, because they are not yet crimes or no CV has been made. Just saying that there is a check by the local police is not enough, we know now. We will therefore have to consider how certain knowledge that is present at other levels of the police can flow through local task forces with the federal police and possibly the security of the state in a practical way and go along with the advice to the governor when a decision is to be taken. This crucial exercise must be made. Finally, I had also asked how many people in the Security of the State are actively involved in the succession of extremist organizations, other than Muslim extremists, as Muslim extremists are being followed very closely. It is therefore a question of left-wing and right-wing extremism. You did not reply, although I had already put my question to you last Thursday. So I expect an answer to that. I also asked how many groups are actually being followed. The Minister for the Interior replied that ninety groups were followed by the police and the OCAD; these groups were listed. I would also like to know how many groups are being followed by the Security of the State. It would also be useful to know whether these are the same groups or whether there are differences, i.e. whether groups are followed by the Security of the State which are not included in the list of ninety groups discussed by the Minister of the Interior. Those data allow us to re-examine whether the information actually comes together and does not remain fragmented. After all, perhaps the most important lesson from the Committee of Inquiry into the attacks is that information was still too often disseminated. Sometimes information is only available in one place, but the services would have been much more aware if information had been viewed together at a certain point. I hope that the same mistakes will not be made in the issue we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u22	Needless to say, I am not reassured by the interventions of the two ministers. A few points of thought. Minister Jambon stated that on 27 October 2017 a fact sheet was opened against Schild & Vrienden. I'm a little surprised at this late date. The attack on one of our activists, committed on behalf of Schild & Vrienden, took place on 16 May 2017. It was an offence in a house, a photo showing her as being raped, intimidation because of her involvement in anti-racist actions. There was an explicit reference on the poster to the assassinations committed under the Pinochet regime, which was supplemented on social media by Schild & Vrienden officials: I quote: "Too many communists, too few helicopters." "Too many communists, too few helicopters." This is a reference to the fascist coup in Chile in 1973: helicopters with left-wing militants fly over the sea and the militants are thrown into the sea. This gives you an idea of the political material used by Schild & Vrienden activists on 16 May 2017, with the filing of a complaint. Minister, I am surprised that I didn't hear anything because it happened five months before the opening of information. We underestimated what happened at that time at the political level. I also referred to attacks by trade union delegates during strikes, particularly in Ghent. The case continues to be minimized by saying that it is only a few young people who have exaggerated. But there is a movement that is being built. Let's stop being naive! An international movement is being built with the Alt-right, which, in countries where it is more structured, is becoming an act of violence. It does not yet do so fully in Belgium because it is not yet at that stage. But that is the danger before us. It is an international obedience and, dear colleagues of the N-VA, you cannot not know! I'm not saying that everyone shares these ideas, but you're with them, those young people who come out with their jokes and their ideology. You know this construction. We know her because we campaign, but you know her too! I am not saying that it is shared by everyone, but there is at least a great passivity. That's a real problem. You know that, don't you? We are not talking about banal racism; we are talking about world-viewing on the model of Alt-right, intertwined with racism, anti-women's politics and anti-marxism. Because when we talk about the history of our country - I heard Mr Verherstraeten talk about the history of our country - I recall that anti-Marxism is a very important part of the Nazi and fascist ideology pre-Second World War. I mean, for Adolf Hitler himself, that was a cardinal point of his policy. There is not just anti-Semitism and racism: there was this anti-Marxism, the fact of considering as subhuman someone who was actually a member of a Marxist or communist party. I remind you of our story. As much as an important part of our elite, whether royal or political, collaborated with German troops when they entered, both these communist militants led an illegal fight for the restoration of our democratic rights. It is also the history of our country. I want to argue politically to stop saying that all this is extremism in general. This is - and this is my third point - racism. We are saying that it is an opinion, that we need to understand a little bit, that they are young people, etc. Why has racism entered our Criminal Code? That is a question that can be asked here, ladies and gentlemen. Why had racism entered the Criminal Code? Because it's not just an opinion. Because this idea automatically implies the drastic restriction of rights for part of our population. That is why racism has been integrated into it. Because the racist idea implies that someone is not entitled to an apartment or less entitled to an apartment than someone else. Because the racist idea implies that someone is not entitled to one job compared to another. Because the racist idea justifies, at some point, acts of violence against other parts of the population. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we have not talked about extremism in general, we have talked about racism. In this sense, we have the entire legal arsenal today to pursue organisations that openly advocate racism. The arsenal's here. I did not feel today, in the response of the two ministers, a willingness to say that racism is not simply an opinion and that it must be pursued. It is obvious that this is not limited to this! No, no, Minister, I don't have enough. I will make my fourth point on this point. Yes, I agree that this is not enough and that there is a political debate to be held. I totally agree. For colleagues who cannot be restricted - and indeed there is a question of repression - there is a political debate to be conducted against racism. The demon's gone. I said it in my introduction to go, because the economic crisis is there. We know that these are propitious moments for simplistic explanations to come up again, which will put responsibility on the weakest in our society. We know that. It is a matter of having a common fight today. This is not the monopoly of certain parties. I agree with the challenge raised by all parties to actively combat racism. We have just presented the various events of the last few weeks showing, among other things, a weather presenter harassed during a year for the simple fact that it is black,... But what are we doing, ladies and gentlemen? What are we doing against that? When a young man at Aarschot station is thrown on the tracks... And the only reason he's just a different color. Colleagues, what are we doing? That's what this is about. There is no compromise to make. Some political parties play on this because it reports from an electoral point of view, saying that there are different cultures - the Berbers, the Arabs,... - and that racism is relative. Racism is not relative, ladies and gentlemen! Either you judge someone because they have such a color of skin, or they don't. This is not a question of relativity. When ministers express such opinions, it does indeed encourage this kind of current in the population. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that an anti-fascist fight is necessary today. I hope that we will take up this fight with civil society as a whole because we know what history has brought us in this country, we know the dangers that are there and that are not finished. History can be repeated and I really hope that all democratic militant forces will be able to fight not only against fascist organisations, but also against fascist ideas. Because we know how much there is first of all a leading role that is played by certain organisations. This has been the case in all forms of fascist coups d'état. There were first some organizations that seemed marginal. This was the case in Chile. I was yesterday commemorating the 45th anniversary of the coup d'état in Chile. It is clear that small proto-fascist groups first did the work to be able to carry out this coup d'état which, afterward, allowed all the fascist forces present in Chile to do their coup d'état. This cannot happen in Belgium, ladies and gentlemen! So we need a much more radical policy against these groups. Criminal, but above all political, measures are needed to win this fight.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u23	Ministers, thank you for your answers. Firstly, I wanted to react to the repressive aspect developed by the State and the various services, with a view to identifying and sanctioning such behaviour. The calls for hatred and racism made by Schild & Vrienden highlighted by this report are, as was pointed out in our questions, contrary to the law. They must be prosecuted and punished. A very strong will to go to the end must be firmly affirmed in this regard. Obstacles such as privacy and social networks were cited. However, they cannot be a hindrance to the State's action, as the offences in question are very serious and must be punished. You have provided statistics and re-described the working methods of the Sûreté, OCAM and federal and local police. However, we note that while Schild & Vrienden sometimes found himself in the police radar, the OCAM and the annual list received annually by the Minister of the Interior did not mention this extremist organization. This obviously raises a question. Secondly, while the repressive side is absolutely fundamental, it is not the only answer to be given. I am of course thinking of the National Plan against Racism and All Forms of Intolerance, because we need to go further. Honestly, I feel a great disappointment. Mr Jambon, you have recalled what the Secretary of State has undertaken since she took office. We are talking about ongoing studies and hearings on anti-discrimination legislation proposals, but that seems quite inadequate to us. I will not teach you anything by telling you that we do not have much time left before the end of the legislature. Indeed, we must develop a comprehensive arsenal. Prevention is a fundamental aspect. Racist discourse and hate speech cannot be combated by resorting only to repressive actions. It is necessary to be able to work at all levels: in education, associations, etc. Pedagogy is absolutely essential. Otherwise, we can't do it. Once again, I want to say, it is urgent to put in place this inter-federal or national plan against racism and all forms of intolerance. Sincerely, when I hear you, I do not have the impression that this is the priority of the Secretary of State and I doubt that we will be able to do so before the end of the legislature. That is absolutely regrettable. I link my third point to the conclusion of Minister Geens in the tone of the political debate. It's obviously connected. The expressions used by each other free the words of our fellow citizens. I want to tell you, Mr. Geens and Mr. Jambon, that everyone has to put a stone in his garden about it. On the federal side, it's much more than a stone. That must really be a real concern. I do not understand that you put this forward without yourself asking yourself the question about some of your colleagues. I'm sorry, but your Secretary of State posts on Facebook about how men should or should not dress or what it is to dress normally for a man. The same Secretary of State posted on Twitter that Matteo Salvini's work in Italy is great. He says we have to clean up Maximilian Park in Brussels. At some point, we all have to look. As I said, we are all responsible, as politicians, for the political speech we carry and for the cleavage we make or not. But sincerely, ministers, you really have work to do at the federal government level. I believe that I do not teach you anything by reminding you that one of your colleagues in particular, gives an incredible freedom of yours by his word systematically borderline. Obviously this frees the word of those who are not borderline, and who think that if a secretary of state goes there, they can go "to the bottom of the box", if I can say so. Frankly, I agree that everyone must be attentive to the public word in his or her garden, in his or her party, as a political leader. That's true, all parties combined. We pay particular attention to this as ecologists. But several members of the federal government, and in particular Secretary of State Franken, have public statements that are increasingly unacceptable and release a word that today carries nausea and leads us to such meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u24	I propose that the Pano program be included in our intelligence services, as it has succeeded in doing what our intelligence and security services have failed to do. She managed to conduct an investigation that, obviously, our security services were unable to do. I find it amazing, Mr. Minister of the Interior, that you concluded by saying that the follow-up was correct. But no, the follow-up was not correct. The evidence is that now there is a charge and judicial follow-up and that this grouping is placed on the list of the OCAM and the groups to be prosecuted. There has been no correct follow-up but a good state failure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u25	I'd like to make a correction. It was the conclusion of the Strategic Committee on Comprehensive Security that met on Monday, not mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u26	I'd like to know your conclusion, then.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u27	I have made it clear that I am transmitting the conclusions of the Strategic Committee, which brings together the services that have met with the National Security Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u28	What about your conclusion?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u29	What I had to say earlier...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u30	That's the government I'm asking, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u31	You questioned the government and I answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u32	There is no response from the government. There's this response from the National and Strategic Committee that I can't... No, I don't! I asked the question three times and he didn't answer. It is clear that the government has no answer. The conclusion we draw, I think - at least I draw - is that there has indeed been a failure, since today we are taking measures that have not been taken and that an investigation carried out by investigative journalists has not been carried out by our security, police and intelligence services. I want to go back to the debate that you are opening, Mr Geens. You say - and others like Mr. De Roover also said - about the debate and opinions and about the freedom that must be there,...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u33	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u34	Yes, others have held it, but you have referred several times to Mr. From Roover, I was surprised. On this debate, on divided opinions, on excessive words sometimes or on a debate that sometimes becomes extremely violent, I can, for part, join you. But in this case, we are far beyond that. I regret that the facts and the organization have not been sufficiently qualified. This is a neo-Nazi organization that refers to Hitler. They do it discreetly in this famous chat room. They evoke concentration camps, the Shoah and a whole series of elements like these.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u35	Did you ask me about the paramilitary? You didn't. I answered although you didn't ask. So I answered the paramilitary question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u36	Minister, I didn't interrupt you. I simply said that this whole organization, in my view, has not been sufficiently and clearly qualified by your government. We are in a political, European and international situation which is extremely worrying in relation to neo-fascist and neo-Nazi movements. We see him in Germany. We can see it somewhere else. I think it is important for the government to appreciate that this is not a usual debate on issues of populism or ultra-nationalism. This really is a debate on a grouping that is not acceptable, that is not tolerable, that needs to be pursued diligently, on which our intelligence services should have acted with priority, with diligence once again, on which, as soon as there were warnings, there should have been close follow-up. When I see that there was indeed a first alert from the State Security in October that did not finally give anything about the follow-up of the OCAM and the inclusion by the OCAM of this character, this leader of this organization in the list of hate preachers, I am indeed concerned, like my colleague Stefaan Van Hecke, that there is, once again, information that exists on the one hand and that is not reflected on the other. It is also a matter of concern to me. There was not an alert on this side that was important enough for this character to actually be placed on the list of hate preachers. This is only going to happen today when, in the end, the facts date back a long time ago. No, there was no proper follow-up. No, we are not in debates about freedom of opinion or the limits of freedom of opinion. We are really in a debate that engages the future of our fundamental values, of what I think is of concern to us all: racism, hatred of the other, violence, paramilitary combat over people who are different from each other. All this is a matter of concern. I think we need to go back to that in a clearer and clearer way than we do today. You say, minister, that there is also a legal arsenal that is sufficient. I think that this legal arsenal today, as we have heard, presents us with difficulties in some respects. You admitted it yourself. We had worked under the previous legislature and had tried to ban Sharia4Belgium. We were prevented from acting as we wished. There was an opinion of the Council of State that clarified the limits. At the CDH, we resumed this work, we continued this reflection. We have tabled a text which should make it possible to prohibit groups and associations which, clearly and repeatedly, make racist and discriminatory statements. You said there was already a legislative arsenal but it concerns racism and not homophobia or sexism. We are indeed proposing to supplement this arsenal in order to be able to better tackle such groups and to criminalize and penalise them with prison sentences or financial penalties in order to prevent them from harming them. It is important not to make excessive statements systematically and to measure what is happening well. We don't have to make one movement like another. It has already infiltrated some political parties and there is obviously a form of continuity between nationalism, radical nationalism and forms of ultra-right extremism – which is unacceptable. One must be able to say that there is a grey area there and this grey area must be cleaned, Mr De Roover, otherwise the whole movement will be carried in the same bag. It must be radically cleaned, there must be no doubt about it. I would remind you that the acronym they bear – 1302 – refers to the massacre in their beds of 1,000 French nationals. I don't know if this is really an extremely glorious episode in the history of the 14th century. It was a massacre, it wasn't a fight.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u37	Madam President, I can only stress what I have already said, namely that we want to see the judiciary acting independently and applying criminal law, as it should be. In addition to this, I would like to say to Mr Laaouej that he will no doubt only be satisfied with our condemnation of right-wing extremistism by taking over his story. However, I must disappoint him. We will continue to pay attention to the concerns of many citizens, without falling into extremism ourselves. We are not convinced that Mr Laaouej's story can create a credible dam against the extreme right. If I was not very friendly, I would even dare to say the opposite. Freedom of expression seems to stop for some Members here when an opinion is expressed with which one does not agree. For example, I heard a very different tone and wording from the green side when we were talking about Charlie Hebdo, for example. What I find particularly strong in the replies is that we have heard anti-marxism mentioned here as a danger by someone who calls himself Marxist. Mr Hedebouw, antimarxism is not only a very legitimate concept. I also wish to endorse them. You have indicated that history can always repeat itself. That sounds from the mouth of a communist rather as a warning than anything else. That danger is indeed very great. However, Mr Hedebouw, as long as you comply with the law and the criminal law, I will continue to defend your right to freedom of expression here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u38	Madam President, I have a few brief comments and reservations. Firstly, I had asked some questions about Mrs Demir's competence. I have heard the Minister say that the Secretary of State is no longer talking about an action plan against racism, but about a social plan. This once again indicates that it seems that people do not like to talk about racism as such. So I can only regret once again that the plan has to change its name, to pretend that the problem does not exist, and that until today we cannot hear anything about the plan. Secondly, on the security of the State, I have asked Minister None a number of specific questions about staff and the budget. Minister, I suggest that you return to that at a later date and that we get the data. Thirdly, I would like to refer again to the Pano reportage. In my view, what was particularly worrying was that members of that organization were encouraged to buy weapons, that they were called upon to set up a brawl crew, and that they were preparing for the day of violence, which would inevitably come. I have heard you both present the actual data of the OCAD and of the State Security, which indicate that the members of that group were a little known but that there were insufficient indications. From the Pano-reportage, however, it emerged that they wanted to set up fight teams, that they wanted to buy weapons because the day of violence is coming, and that we did not see it. I understand we can't see everything. But the journalist who did the reportage did at some point feel that he had to dig further. That's his credit. We have to ask ourselves why all the police professionals, the OCAD and the State Security did not feel the same way, why they did not feel the same urge to dig deeper than what was visible. What is the conclusion, gentlemen ministers? If we could not see it ourselves, if our three bodies have not noticed it, then we must be concerned. In other words, these organizations, because there will probably be others, will do everything to stay out of sight of the security of the state, of the police, of the OCAD. They seem to succeed and remain hidden. We must be concerned about that, and we must try to do better in the future. You would have reassured me, Ministers, if I had heard today that we had noticed them, that we were following them. But no, you said that they were in the spotlight, but that there was actually not enough going on to dig deeper. That's what I got from your explanation. While that journalist is digging deeper and has found that there are things that we are worried about today. That's my point. I would have been more reassured if I had been told by you today that the security of the State was following a number of members of that club. That would have reassured me. That is not the case now. Once again, I am not blaming anyone, because I believe that everyone is doing their best, but in the future we must be able to explore such matters more quickly in order to nip them in the bud.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u39	Thank you, Ministers, for the very detailed answer. With regard to criminalisation, Minister of Justice, you said that the description of the offence and the interpretation of public access and the public place are sufficient. What you said is in line with what I myself have found in my interpretation of the case law, but fortunately it is different from what we have read and heard in the media. At least I am reassured on that point. Minister of the Interior, if we are allowed to interpret the criminalisation as we know it today, I wonder why the detection and patrol on the Internet is limited to completely open social media? Why does that not extend to semi-public media? In this way one can dig deeper than what is visible on the surface. Unless I have misunderstood you, if we do not, we are dependent on investigative journalism and on chance to detect such crimes. That cannot be the intention at all. I hear you now saying that we are moving on. Looking at chatboxes could be part of the police patrol mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u40	It also concerns non-open source, the darknet, and as for everything, capacity is limited. Not every lead is tracked.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u41	Then I'm reassured. We can do that, we do that, but there is still the issue of capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u42	Capacity is always limited. The IRU has the opportunity to explore the darknet, whatever happens, but apparently not in every file. It's an appreciation of the investigator to decide in which file he does that and in which file he doesn't.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u43	Thank you for this clarification, because there are some misconceptions about this too. Finally, I would like to make a brief comment on the security of the State. I believe I understand that there has been no notification of criminal offences by the State's security. However, a report has been prepared by the OCAD on several occasions in response to certain indications of possible criminal offences. Where there are indications of criminal offences, it is up to the State Security to make a notification. That didn't happen. I understand that, at a very early stage of a state security dossier, people are hesitant because they are afraid of contaminating their own files or of making their own investigations impossible. Where there are indications of crime, it is important that they are at least passed on to the services responsible for assessing whether or not further detection is being carried out and which investigative orders should or should not be issued. Here too, it is important to know and that after that there will be consultation between the State Security and the Public Prosecutor to see who does what and when. That makes sense, but saying that one will not report because one is afraid that... that would be wrong. I am not saying that this has happened here, but I can only conclude that there was apparently for one indication of crime, that the court now finds that the same thing is known and that no notification has been made by the State's security. Quid? If there's any evidence of a crime, there's still a need to report it. Let's agree on that. It seems logical to me that we should consult after consultation, who does what and when, but there is a danger that things will escape the attention of those who should know. That is not a reproach, I understand that everyone is acting as best they can and that no one is perfect. We do not have to look back on the future, but things can sometimes be given to us from the past, so that we can deal with things even better in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u44	Mrs Van Cauter, in relation to the latter, we have suggested that the joint intelligence centres can provide a partial response. Everyone bears his responsibilities in this, albeit by mutual agreement. Mr President, I am a little concerned about statements made by some of my fellow Members, since I believe they are in favour of allowing politics to decide what to say or not and also to decide who to unite or not. They use as a criterion that what the politician concerned does not like to hear or like to see united, should not be said or unite. That worries me. I am in favour of such statements. In my view, freedom of expression and freedom of association should not be hollow slogans. Of course, there are limits to freedom of expression, determined by the European Convention on Human Rights, by our Constitution and by our laws, which were also referred to during the debate. That is not the end of the matter, because there are limits on the human dimension as well. I am talking about respect, integrity and accepting that people have a different opinion. I am concerned that my request for nuance and my request not to make caricatures from each other or not to turn people against each other, but rather to unite them, has apparently fallen into deaf ears, in order to prove the replies. [[From that I can only conclude that the extreme left and the extreme right are each other's allies.]] The result is that society is under pressure. That's what I'm afraid of. Brecht Vermeulen, President: Mr Calomne is no longer here. Mrs Lambrecht and Mr Miller are no longer asking for a reply. Everyone who spoke in the round of questions has thus been given the floor again in the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u45	Mr President, a few more questions were asked. The Rules of Procedure do not allow a minister to speak last, but I would ask you to speak. I'm a little disturbed by the fact that if we don't use the tone of indignation enough, we can't hear you. I made it clear that the State Security has been following this gentleman since 2012. I made it clear that since 2017, she has been looking at the movement that is under discussion. I also said that, according to the State Security, there was not enough evidence available to hack on the Internet. It may be a judgment, an appreciation, but you must want to hear it. It was me, Mr. Dallemagne, who talked about the private militias. You didn't ask me about that. It was I who said that, among other things, it could be criminalized and that the prosecution could perhaps investigate in that direction. Should I say it with as much noise as I do now? It's not because we don't use the tone of indignation that we're not indignant. It is the tone of moderation that gives strength. That's how I wanted to proceed. You mentioned Nazis. I have not heard a question about this. As far as I'm concerned, I said that the prosecution could investigate a private militia with a view to criminalization. As far as Mr Van Hecke's questions are concerned, to be clear: the Extremism Working Group set up under the Plan R has knowledge of the elements which the State's Security has in this respect. Those services were thus informed by the State Security. No, Mrs Van Cauter, the file was not judicialised on the basis of 29a. The OCAD is present at the meetings of the Extremism Group, for the sake of clarity. The OCAD was aware of the existence of that group, but it is only after the facts of the Pano report that the evaluation of the OCAD came, not before. You all know the debate of judicialisation enough to know that as soon as the State Security informs the federal court, a piece of confidentiality could also be lost, as could some of the possibilities for the State's security for further investigation. We have had this debate a hundred times in this committee. Finally, how much? You can be informed of this in the parliamentary follow-up committee of the R Committee. How many of these groups of the extreme right and the extreme left and what exactly we are following, I cannot tell you here. As far as the number of hate preachers kept by the OCAD is concerned, what has been said here is quite clear. For the people here who carry the heart a little more on the left, I would like to make this very clear. The moment that I said, after the incidents of Liège, that no radicalized person was allowed to leave prison on penitentiary leave, a person known as the far right was treated in the same way as extreme left. The answer was: are you going to deal with this now? It is not because I am not so high on all these matters that I am not serious, as far as the left, the right and religious extremism are concerned. I should like to add this, Mr President, because since we are moderate in our tone and even occasionally afford a little humor, one might have the impression that we do not take things seriously. If it's about speaking to tremolos, so can I.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-12-54-commissie-ic958x.u46	Mr. Minister of Justice, I appreciate your last comment. I think she was important. Don't get me wrong, I know your work and your convictions. Simply, I find that at times you have to be able to say certain words and say them clearly. I find it a pity that you take this for yourself because I wanted above all to point out that, on the basis of the information you provide to us, I cannot agree with the conclusion made by the Minister of the Interior, not on his personal behalf – he tells me – but on behalf of the security bodies. That's what deeply disturbs me. We cannot agree with such a conclusion. There has indeed been a very clear lack of follow-up and, in my view, more than that. We can ask ourselves why this organization has not been followed more seriously and whether there has not been a form of trivialisation, if not worse, of this type of organization.
