ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u1	The following questions will be converted into written questions: 21788 by Mrs Jadin, No. 21788 by Mrs Jadin, No. 21788 by Mrs Jadin, No. 21788 by Mrs Jadin, No. 21788 by Mrs Jadin, No. 21788 by Mrs Jadin, No. 21788 by Mrs Jadin, No. 21788 by Mrs Jadin, No. 21788 by Mrs Jadin, No. 21788 by Mrs Jadin, No. 21788 by Mrs Jadin, No. 21788 by Mrs Jadin, No. 21788 by Mrs Jadin, No. 21788 by Mrs Jadin, No. 21788 by Mrs Jadin, No. 21788 by Mrs Jadin, No. 21788 by Mrs Jadin, No. 21788 by Mrs Jadin, No. 21788 by Mrs Jadin, No. Mr Van Hees, No 21870 No 21923 by Mrs Onkelinx, 2-1988, by Mr Crusnière, No. 22011 by Mr Dedecker and No. 22227 by Mr Crusnière. Debates of the European Parliament 22737 by Mr Blanchart was postponed. The answer to question No. Mrs Pas 22874 will be given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u2	Prime Minister, I have a short but very important question. We are almost celebrating the second anniversary of the 59 recommendations we made in the Dieselgate Committee. In 2017, in response to a question from Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, you provided a follow-up table to these recommendations. There are a lot of ministers in charge. I therefore split this follow-up table by minister and interviewed every minister about his or her share. I questioned the ministers De Block, Marghem, Bellot and Peeters. Several members of your government promised each time that a follow-up committee on Dieselgate would be organised to coordinate the whole. Minister Peeters, in particular, had done his homework in detail. For his powers I received a large, detailed table. He confirmed to me that you are working hard on the coordination and follow-up of the whole. Prime Minister, do you take the role of coordinator seriously? Have you discussed the succession at the government table, because the members of your government are now putting the ball in your camp? Will you organise a follow-up committee Dieselgate? When will that be, because we're two years away? Can you also provide me with an updated table of follow-up to all recommendations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u3	Ms Dedry, following the diesel gates scandal at the end of 2015, the Chamber set up the special research committee Dieselgate, with the task of following up the Dieselgate dossier and regularly informing the members of the Chamber of Representatives on the state of play, hearing the various actors, making recommendations, where appropriate, and submitting a report the conclusions of which will be put to the vote. On the basis of these assignments, the committee held hearings, focusing on different topics. The relevant federal ministers took part in this work. At the end of April 2016, the Chamber adopted almost unanimously 59 recommendations. Under these recommendations, the government was asked to submit an action plan by the end of 2016 which translates each of the recommendations into concrete measures and actions. Each competent chamber committee was asked to put the item on the agenda regularly, within six months and then once a year, to discuss the state of play. At government level, this succession was well done in the form of a follow-up table. This table is regularly updated and delivered to the representatives of the people who ask for it. In view of the many aspects of the problem and in order to facilitate follow-up, I have asked my cabinet to coordinate regularly the updating of the table. This coordination will enable a complete overview to be provided. I can add that the Ministers responsible regularly keep themselves at Parliament's disposal to answer the questions on this subject. They are also available to present a state of affairs if Parliament makes this question. I shall keep a copy of the updated table available. I also propose that this table be sent by e-mail to the secretariat and the chairman of the committee, so that the table is available for those Members who wish to consult them. As far as the creation of a follow-up committee is concerned, I do not think it is up to the government, but to Parliament to decide on this. I will leave Parliament to decide on this. Finally, in substance, the government has taken several initiatives, including to better protect consumers and encourage soft mobility. A draft law on the introduction of a mobility allowance was submitted to Parliament. EUR 1 billion was also made available for the completion of the GEN. At the beginning of September 2017, a preliminary draft extending the class action was adopted by the Council of Ministers at first reading. This draft will soon be submitted to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u4	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your detailed reply. I will carefully study the coordinated follow-up table to see what progress has been made. I have a short question. You are right, the chairman of that chamber committee is Mrs Jadin, a party member of yours. I have asked her several times informally whether she would like to convene this committee again for the follow-up. She promised me that, but nothing has happened so far. She's your party mate. If you ask her, she'll be fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u5	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u6	She's a party member. You're guaranteed to have more influence than I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, as you know, there has been a lot to do in recent years about cyber security. Rightly so, because the digital space is becoming increasingly the area where fraud, serious crime and terrorism are nestling. However, Belgium was late in adopting a national cyber security strategy, namely in 2012. However, at KB on 10 October 2014, the Centre for Cyber Security Belgium (CCB) was founded in the womb of the Chancery. This was a first very important step in cyber security. I think it is absolutely a good thing that our country has jumped on that cart. After all, our citizens, businesses and vital sectors need maximum protection against cyber attacks. In an article in De Tijd a few days ago, cyberexperts predicted that cyberattacks in 2018 could have a financial impact for companies bordering on these of major natural disasters. That is a very remarkable statement. That is why I have the following questions for you, Prime Minister. How many staff members does the Cybersecurity Centre employ in Belgium? Is that the desired capacity? The website states that the CCB is currently recruiting for the CERT, the Federal Cyber Emergency Team, multiple cybersecurity analysts and experts. Can you explain how many people are involved, how long these vacancies have been open and what are the possible difficulties in filling these places? What is the cost of the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium so far, please split by year and by item of expenditure on staff, infrastructure and so on? Where do the budgets come from? Will there be an additional budget for 2018? Meanwhile, does Belgium have an elaborate cyber security policy? Can you explain that to me? Can you also give an update on the earlywarning system developed by the Cybersecurity Centre Belgium with regard to the protection of vital sectors in Belgium? An international report in February 2016 showed that Belgian nuclear installations were far too vulnerable to cyber attacks. Can you explain whether the CCB is also committed at European level? Can you tell us what happened in 2017? Can you also give me information about the planned projects for 2018? What is on the programme in this respect? Mr Prime Minister, I did not include the following in my questions. I'll give it to you, though. The answer may also be given in writing. The Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium has called on Internet users to send suspicious e-mails, such as phishingmails, to the website safeonweb. I'd like to get the numbers of them from you. You can do that in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u8	Mr Yüksel, for your last point, you can just listen to the next question about the phishing part, which I will ask, and so you will hear the answer immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u9	Mr President, Mr Yüksel, the CCB currently has 10 staff. There are two procedures for statutory relations provided for in the Staff Plan. It concerns 1 attaché A1, in charge of international relations for the CCB team and 1 attaché A2 communication for the CERT.be team. CERT.be, which was integrated into the CCB in January 2017, currently employs 18 staff, including 3 statutory staff and 15 e-gov officials. These are 24 officials, including 4 statutory staff and 20 e-gov staff. The recruitments are ongoing. In this context, in October 2017, the CCB published on its website the recruitment of analysts and experts cited by you. These recruitments did not create any particular difficulties, apart from the advanced skills that the candidates must have in order to be able to work at CERT.be. For cyber security, the government has allocated a total budget of 12.9 million for 2018, excluding any additional increases for new initiatives. Standardized loans for the CCB amount to 8.6 million, for cyber commission that is 1.1 million and for terrorist commission 3 million. The commission for new initiatives could be increased to 0.2 million. The national cybersecurity strategy consists of three strategic objectives. Firstly, the search for a secure and reliable cyberspace, with respect for fundamental rights and values. Secondly, the aim is to ensure optimal security and protection of critical infrastructure and public systems against the cyber threat. Thirdly, developing its own cybersecurity capacity for an independent security policy and an appropriate response to security incidents. The CCB's Action Plan in October 2015 makes this strategy operational. The development of the earlywarning system (EWS) has been completed. The CCB is currently starting to implement the rules for the use of the instrument in cooperation with the sectoral authorities. Users will have access to the system immediately afterwards. This system will better inform users of relevant threats and vulnerabilities. As far as your questions on nuclear installations are concerned, they fall within the competence of the Minister of the Interior and the FANC. Regarding the other achievements of the CCB, I refer to my general policy paper for 2018 which was presented and discussed in the Committee for the Interior on 21 November 2017. As far as the European aspect of your question is concerned, I can say that the CCB is actively participating in all the work of the peer meetings of the European CERTs. In addition, the CCB is also a member of ENISA, the European Network and Information Security Agency. In addition, the CCB participates in the European SMART programme led by the European Commission. The aim of this programme is to create a European platform for the development of cyber security projects and to encourage cooperation between the different CERTs of the Member States. The CCB will continue its commitments and activities at European level in 2018. As far as your last question is concerned, a further answer was given in the context of another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u10	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your comprehensive reply. It is good that we have started with the CCB and the CERT and that the roll-out is complete. Our country must take a leading role in this issue at European level. The overview you gave reassures me in that regard. Digital security and cybersecurity are elements that we need to incorporate as a new pillar in our security structure. That is far too often underexposed. In the coming months and years, we must emphasize this in particular. In addition, of course, to the security of our businesses and citizens and terrorism, cyber security is an important dimension that we must add to it. I hope the vacancies will be filled in soon. Prime Minister, one final point. When I hear that all these things have been completely rolled out, it's time for realizations. I therefore hope that we will be able to achieve a number of concrete things in 2018. I also hope that the attacks we experienced in 2017 with regard to the companies will not repeat themselves. It's time for delivery .
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u11	The following two questions are actually related to Defence, one about the future and the other about the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u12	Mr Prime Minister, in order to avoid possible misunderstandings, I would like to say that my group and I are not in favour of buying any fighter aircraft. My question concerns the most important government order for the next few decades, and we are in the last straight line here. If we look at investment and operating costs over a period of 30 years, we are talking about a dossier of EUR 20 billion, a huge amount. Our group would like transparency and clarity on the conduct of this procedure. We know that there are still two fighter aircraft left in the normal procedure of Request for Government Proposal, but a little over four months ago France sent a letter with an offer to allow the Rafale to compete. To that offer, the Minister of Defence replied that France had actually put itself out of play by leaving the Request for Government Proposal procedure. In their letter, the French had proposed a whole series of compensations. The Secretary of Defense has said that it is too good to be true. So the Secretary of Defense takes a negative attitude. We see that the Foreign Minister asks the Minister of Defence, after his statements, to continue to talk to everyone, with whom he meant to talk about the Rafale as well. Prime Minister, for the umpteenth time you must act as referee in your squabble cabinet. We would like to see clarity and clarity from you today. Is there any consensus within your government as to whether or not there are still three or two aircraft available? The procedure initiated by the Minister of Defence provided for the best and final sacrifice to be presented on 14 February. Can that timing be maintained? Will we hear from the government soon after 14 February what position is being taken, so that we can be clear on that very serious financial dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u13	Mr President, Mr Van der Maelen, I will, as always, give as much clarity as possible on this dossier. Firstly, we opted for a transparent procedure a few months ago. Unfortunately, that was not always the case in the past in our country, as you know. That is a clear choice, including with a role for and information for Parliament. It is no secret that we have only received two offers in the context of the transparent procedure, the RfGP procedure. That is public information that we have already had discussions about in Parliament. After the deadline, France did indeed make a written offer to the government. It is therefore a complex legal situation, not just in political terms. As a lawyer, I am very careful not to make legal mistakes, because they could be a serious political problem in such a delicate dossier, given the financial aspects and the strategic choice for the future of our defence. That is why we are still working on the legal analysis: what are the possibilities for the government, given the complex situation? After all, there is a transparent procedure, with clear criteria. The government wanted to obtain strong dossiers in substance, the various elements of which will be taken into account in order to make a correct and correct decision. In the transparent procedure, therefore, there were only two offers. Two agencies have made an offer. In addition to the procedure, however, there was also a letter from the French Minister of Defence. I do not intend to express a definitive appreciation at this time, because we need some time to clarify the legal situation. After that, the political assessment will follow. However, I would make a mistake if I were to express my appreciation too quickly without the situation being legally clear. The aim is therefore to continue work on the dossier in the next few weeks and to obtain more legal clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u14	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'm still hungry. I note that the letter is almost four months old. I also note the story, on the one hand, that we know classically in this government, with two ministers expressing their views on the same dossier in a different way. Four months later, the Minister of Defense said he was questioned before Christmas that there hasn't even been any contact with the French Minister of Defence. There is still uncertainty as to whether compensation can be made at European level. I note that this government is once again muddling into this dossier. Prime Minister, I hope that this government will manage to clarify the legal situation before 14 February. Who can be a candidate for the most important purchase of the coming decades, which will be financed by Belgian public money? We are waiting for transparency in this. Prime Minister, you have equally made an allusion to a painful history for our country. It is our group that has been insisting for two years that, as in the Netherlands, the Court of Auditors should follow up the dossier from the start of the procurement procedure. We have already had at least twice a vote on our initiative in the Defence Committee where this majority refuses to give full transparency in the dossier, as the Dutch example, by involving the Court of Auditors in the follow-up to this dossier. That is something we regret. I hope that later we will not have to say to your ministers: you would have listened better to the sp.a and involved the Court of Auditors in this dossier from the start.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, at the end of 2013, an open letter was published in which relatives of Belgian soldiers who were executed by the army during the First World War called on the federal government to apologize for the soldiers who were sentenced to death in suspicious circumstances and executed for desertion or insubordination. The scientific literature on this subject indicates that the warrior's court at the time of the First World War did not work properly. It dealt with 87 805 cases in that period, almost half of which were referred to the court, resulting in 37 557 convictions. In 222 cases this resulted in a sentence to the death penalty, of which 20 were carried out. Some condemned soldiers were a model for the others, others were denied a fair trial to prevent general desertion or insubordination. Scientific literature indicates that in these cases the case law can be separated from the crime. In fact, justice was used by the army as a means of discipline, making the individual subordinate to the objectives of the army. However, this is questionable from the point of view of human rights today. Moreover, eyewitnesses from that time indicated that the course of justice did not always follow the rules and laws. At the request of the King and Queen, this resulted in, among other things, a reform of the disciplinary system in 1915, in which the death penalty was pronounced only for murder and no longer for desertion or insubordination. During the discussion of the general policy paper 2014 of the Federal Public Service of Chancery of the Prime Minister on 19 November 2013, then Prime Minister Di Rupo indicated that he had taken note of the open letter and to the Scientific Committee, established to accompany the government and the Federal Organization Committee for the Remembrance of the First World War for historical and scientific work, had given the order to draw up an opinion. That opinion, which could be expected by March 2014, would then be submitted to the federal government and the organisational committee. Parliament would also be informed of the results. So far, however, we have had no follow-up. So, Prime Minister, my questions to you are as follows. Firstly, what is the state of the research conducted by the Scientific Committee? Secondly, was the opinion of the Scientific Committee delivered to the government and to the Federal Organization Committee for the Remembrance of the First World War? Thirdly, what conclusions will the government draw from the opinion of the Scientific Committee, particularly as regards apologies for soldiers sentenced and executed in suspicious circumstances? Mr Prime Minister, will you submit the results of the inquiry to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u16	Mr President, Mr Bogaert, I would like to thank you for your question, which enables me to take stock of the situation in the case, which involves all the shots fired from all the regions of our country, namely Brussels, Saint-Jans-Molenbeek, Forêt/Vorst, Farciennes, Ghent, Kanne, Lanaken, Neerharen, Lokeren, Daknam, Dendermonde and also Klein-Spouwen, now referred to Bilzen. With regard to retroacts, I refer to the answers I gave to Parliament in November 2014 and June 2015 respectively. As a reminder, specialists from the Royal Military School under the direction of Professor Stanislas Horvath, who holds the chair, were asked for a multidisciplinary study. The study's report has been postponed several times, partly due to problems with access to sources. Professor Horvath recently informed my policy cell that he is working on the final rereading of the report in Dutch. His draft in French is also being reread. The report contains about 70 pages. I have already indicated that we must avoid that, after the investigation, we are reproached that we have not consulted all possible sources or drawn all possible conclusions and have therefore distorted the conclusions. Professor Horvath therefore wishes to add an analysis of the opinions and criticisms of some authors on this complex issue. I hope that the report, as I was informed, can be submitted to the Scientific Committee set up by the Organisational Committee for the Remembrance of the First World War at the end of February 2018. The committee will then be able to give its opinion to the government. At the moment, it is therefore premature to anticipate final decisions, as you say in your question. As I have already said, I have nothing against the final report being forwarded to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u17	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the answer. We will wait until the end of February 2018, and I will come back to this important matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, we remember that in 2014, the centenary of the Great War occupied the minds and news of the media in our country, throughout Western Europe and far beyond. He has been in the news for many months, except for almost the entire year of the centenary because a centennial is still a symbolic landmark that allows us to remember and commemorate. Is it worth recalling that the Great War of 14-18 has greatly affected the population in the country's three regions, Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels? There has been an occupation and deportation, massacres and abuses, unfortunately. The civilian population has suffered. We also know that cities and municipalities were recognized as martyr cities of the massacres of 1914. The loss of life has been considerable. We're talking about nine million dead and eight million invalids. We're talking about 6,000 deaths a day during this dramatic period. It was therefore normal for the centenary of this war to be particularly monitored by the people of our country. I believe that this memory is important for knowing our past, building the future, defending peace and our democratic values. In 2014, events of international significance were organized to commemorate these highlights of Belgian, European and global history. The Government, at all levels, has contributed to the multiple events held throughout the country. Local initiatives and others taken by the Communities, the Regions and the Federal Government have emerged. A resolution was debated and adopted by the House on 7 March 2013. It was not unanimous because there was a debate on the federal role in these commemorations. However, Parliament voted on this resolution. The latter, addressed to the federal government, asked him to play a coordinating role in two major events: one took place in August in Cointe, in the province of Liège; the other in October in Nieuwpoort, in West Flanders. Prime Minister, this year we will be commemorating the centenary of the Armistice of 1918. What role will the federal government play in this memory work? What follow-up will he give to this parliamentary resolution? Two events were organised in Wallonia and Flanders, and another was planned in Brussels. Is it envisaged for this year – for example, on the occasion of 11 November, which is of course a key date? If so, what is the federal budget for this commemoration? Will this event be well organised in Brussels, as envisaged in 2014? In addition, will other initiatives be undertaken by the federal government to commemorate the centenary of the end of the Great War, particularly at the initiative of the Royal Army Museum and through the development of federal archives in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u19	Mr President, we share your view on the importance of the duty of memory. It is essential that the federal government actively contribute to the commemorations of the end of the First World War. In this context – as was the case in the past – we take into account the proposals made by the Organizing Committee for the Commemoration of the First World War. For 2018, these proposals focus on three areas. The first is the holding by the War Heritage Institute of a large exhibition entitled "14-18 Heritage" on the end of the war and its political, social, economic and cultural consequences, not to mention its consequences for international relations. This exhibition will take place at the Royal Army Museum. Secondly, we are considering setting up a major ceremony for November 11. Third, concerts by the Belgian National Orchestra entitled "For a human world" will take place in four major cities across the country. The first of these will take place in Liège on November 8, 2018. Then, three performances will be given on 9, 10 and 11 November at the Bozar in Brussels. As you mentioned, these events require a budget. It is valued at 840 000 euros; it will be passed on to 2017 and 2018 and financed in particular through the profits of the National Lottery. The costs of a larger ceremony on 11 November will be borne by the regular budget of the Prime Minister's Chancellery.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u20	Prime Minister, I thank you for sharing my vision and that of the majority of this Parliament, which in 2013 indicated that the federal government should take its part in these commemorations. This was the case in 2014 and you tell us that events are planned for 2018. I'm glad. That is in line with my question. I would also like to thank you for the answers which already give us some clarification. It's early 2018 and so far, I haven't heard of it. Such events take time to be put in place. I imagine there will be a communication on this program. That would be a good thing. We will not fail to look at the details of the concerts and this major ceremony. At this stage, this is a very positive intention. We will see how this will happen. I assume that the major event of the commemorations of 11 November will take place in Brussels. You're giving us some budget items. I am delighted that we will be able to commemorate not the end of the war – in fact, it was 2019 – but in any case the cessation of the fighting, the armistice that was a very important moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u21	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Gilkinet (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. There are two further questions on the agenda from myself. Mr Yüksel, may I ask you to observe the Presidency so that I can ask my questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u22	Prime Minister, my oral question on ethical hacking is a follow-up to a question I asked the Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice's reply showed that ethical hacking under Belgian law is not punishable if certain conditions are met. The hacker or internal hacker must have no deceptive purpose or purpose to harm. The external hacker must have been allowed to act by those responsible for the computer system and must comply with the conditions. Those conditions have been published through the press, because they changed the position of Belgium vis-à-vis ethical hackers. The Minister of Justice also stated in his reply that the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB), which operates under your jurisdiction, was preparing a standard declaration for companies, so that they can post it on their website. This would enable companies to declare to outsiders that they, of course within the chalk lines outlined, agree to a hacking of their system for their own safety and without malicious intent. That standard declaration would be made public after it was submitted to the government parties. Prime Minister, how many companies have already been involved in the preparation of this standard declaration and the possible manual on the responsible disclosure of computer vulnerabilities? What cost is associated with this? Since when is that manual available? Are there any figures available on the number of companies using that standard declaration in the meantime? In what way was the availability of that standard declaration made public to companies in general? I assume that the Cyber Security Coalition is certainly involved, but I also assume that smaller companies will have more difficult access to that information. That is why I ask you in what way that communication took place. Is it intended that certain public undertakings will also benefit from this? Finally, if the standard declaration were not yet public, what problems would have caused the delay? What is the current state of affairs? Is there a new deadline for that standard declaration to be made available?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u23	Thank you for your question. In 2017, the CCB prepared a first version of a draft guide on the policy on co-ordinated disclosure of vulnerabilities. This draft was submitted to the various stakeholders for comments. These include the Cybercrime expert group of the College of Attorneys General, the Committee for the Protection of the Personal Life Area, university researchers, companies that already have such policies, organisations representing companies and representatives of ethical hackers. On the basis of the comments received and the discussions, the CCB improved the draft guide. This guide consists of four parts: a good practice document, a document with legal aspects, a summary brochure and a model of responsible disclosure policy. At present, some companies are already using a policy of coordinated disclosure of vulnerabilities, such as Proximus, Telenet and SNCB. Some companies also participate in pay programmes to find vulnerabilities. The draft guide will shortly be submitted to the Inter-Kabinette Working Group. I can inform Parliament after the government has given its approval.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u24	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. It is a good thing that we proceed very carefully, but correctly and qualitatively and not too quickly from a design that we need to re-shape afterwards. There are also a lot of parties involved. You referred to the College of Attorney General and experts from universities. That's very good. It is also good that it is extended, that there are four parts. It is, of course, regrettable that it is not yet operational, but I assume that it will not be long. The ethical hackers can make a strong contribution to the cybersecurity of small and large companies and to private individuals through expansion. They can do their job well without running risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u25	Mr President, my question follows on from the oral extension of your original oral question. It concerns actions taken against suspicious phishing e-mails. In October 2017, the Centre for Cyber Security Belgium (CCB) launched a major campaign to teach the population to identify suspicious phishing email messages. The campaign lasted the whole month of October. There were pamphlets, spots in newspapers and television, advertisements on public transport and a video via social media. Those are the CCB's usual communication channels. There was also a window for companies to raise the awareness of employees, customers and professional contacts. The company's own policy and the negligence of employees sometimes cause phishing e-mails to cause damage. In addition, there were also two interesting tools. On the website www.safeonweb.be, all Internet users were able to test how well they could distinguish false from real messages. All internet users were also called to forward suspicious phishing emails to suspicious@safeonweb.be. This would allow the CCB to automatically examine the e-mails and take action if necessary. As far as the latter is concerned, I have long argued for specific attention to be paid to this issue by the police forces, including the Minister of the Interior Jambon. When the action is coordinated at national level, it is of course always better to include a national campaign and awareness raising. After a month, the CCB had already received, screened and processed more than 85 000 suspicious messages. The CCB automatically scanned the links and attachments of the suspicious messages with advanced antivirus technology. According to my information, at least three new phishing websites would be blocked daily. Unfortunately, I made this suggestion even before I put my question, the message is not repeated enough. That's what happens all the time, even in the police's actions. Attention is paid to a particular action for a week or a month. After that, it's like those actions wouldn't be necessary anymore. Repeating the message is necessary to ensure continuity in behavior and that there are not only peak reactions at times due to, for example, messages on social media. On a recent message of 6 January 2018 about false messages from department store chains, the message was no longer repeated on the website of Safeonweb to send the suspicious messages to suspicious@safeonweb.be. That was the repetition that could have strengthened the case. I have the following questions. First of all, how do you evaluate the campaign? Secondly, to what extent do Internet users continue to send suspicious e-mails to suspicious@safeonweb.be? Are there unique users or are the same people who always report new suspicious e-mails? I sent an e-mail myself for the first time in January. Last week and this week I did it again. I am not with those 85 000 messages, but I am with those that were sent later. Thirdly, does the CCB succeed in blocking phishing websites? It used to be three a day. How many are there now? Do they include mirror sites? Sometimes websites are created to do the same with a little bit of change. Fourthly, would it also make sense to launch such an action together with local police areas and with schools? The younger one starts to sensitise people, the better that in the future will be incorporated into behavior for the whole population. Fifth, is there international coordination of the different types of phishing emails, their threat, their impact and their origin? Finally, will there be a follow-up action after the October action?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u26	In my view, Mr Vermeulen, both the scope and the results of the CCB's awareness campaign are very positive. I agree with you when you say that it is important to repeat a message. The same applies in politics. That is why we will certainly start a campaign again in 2018. That's my intention. With the advertisements on Facebook and Instagram, we were able to reach 1 million people of all ages in both country languages during the campaign month. 830 000 people saw the advertisements in the cinema and over 1 million in the Metro newspaper. More than 130 000 people visited the website safeonweb.be and 4 000 of them did the large phishing sprees. One month after the launch of the campaign to send suspicious messages to suspicious@safeonweb.be, the CCB received more than 85 000 messages. So far, 140 000 messages have been forwarded. The links and attachments of the messages are automatically scanned with advanced antivirus technology. This way at least three new phishing websites are blocked daily. The impact of the campaign was evaluated. An evaluation of the campaign took place in December 2017 and was concluded on 20 December 2017. The final evaluation report is scheduled for the end of January 2017. After the campaign month in October 2017, people continue to send emails. A thousand messages are still sent daily. For the sake of privacy, the origin of the messages is not registered. People must be able to send such messages to us in confidence. The CCB also tries not to miss opportunities, to announce our phishing test and the email addresses, for example following phishing emails during the period of Black Friday and the holidays. The CCB publishes the campaign to many different partners as well as to the police. It is referred to on the website of the federal police. The different local police zones also use our materials continuously and share our messages. For education all our materials are constantly available on the website safeonweb.be. It is the intention to further develop this good cooperation in the future, taking into account your suggestions. As regards international coordination, the CCB is working closely with the European Phishing Initiative project, coordinated by the European Commission, to solve the problem of phishing at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u27	Mr Prime Minister, I am naturally pleased that the campaign has been positive and that we can strengthen our cyber security at any level, especially among the citizens. Of course, from 85 000 suspicious messages received to 1 000 per day, it is not a bad development. This figure is, of course, much lower than in a campaign period. This means that we will have to keep the actions warm to ensure that these phishing messages, which are always sent by criminal groups, large or small, local or international, are omitted. These groups are very inventive with very strong technical means to cause damage. We must remain vigilant and ensure that safety is guaranteed. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-16-54-commissie-ic796x.u28	We shall conclude the committee's work on this matter. Thank you all for being here.
