ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u1	Mr President, Mr Minister, after months of discussions in this committee, the resolution on the segregation of the Métis from Belgian colonization in Africa, of which I was a co-signatory, was adopted unanimously in plenary session at the last sitting in March. Several requests to the Government are made in this resolution in different areas, such as the granting and/or recovery of nationality, access to colonial archives or compensation for damage caused. Mr Minister, has the implementation of these various measures already been discussed in the Council of Ministers? What is the timetable for the rapid implementation, I hope, of these measures? Will any additional resources, as requested by the resolution, particularly in the field of scientific research, be released?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u2	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, I obviously welcome the adoption by this House on 29 March of the resolution on the segregation of the Métis from Belgian colonization in Africa. Through this text, which followed an in-depth debate, the Chamber recognized "the targeted segregation of the Métis under the colonial administration of the Belgian Congo and the Ruanda-Urundi until 1962 and following decolonization, as well as the policy of forced abduction". I welcome the solemn and consensual nature of this resolution on a dark page in our history. Several requests were addressed to the federal government. These are currently the subject of discussions between the relevant cabinets to see how they can be followed up before this can be discussed in the Council of Ministers. A meeting was also held on 2 July between representatives of the various cabinets and administrations and the Métis Association of Belgium. From now on, I can tell you that we are, on the whole, very much in favour of this approach and consider what means are needed to implement the resolution adopted by the House of Representatives. I would therefore like to tell you more about the timetable and the resources allocated for the return to school, I hope, since the work is under way but with a favourable approach to the various demands made on the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u3	Mr Minister, I thank you for these answers and, above all, for the welcome which is clearly reserved for this resolution and for the requests made in this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u4	Mr President, thank you and my colleague Mrs Fonck for your kindness and flexibility. Mr Minister, by signing the Council of Europe Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities in 2001, Belgium has two reservations: the Convention cannot prejudice the constitutional provisions, guarantees and principles or the legal and decretal norms governing the use of languages; and the concept of a national minority will be defined by the Interdepartmental Conference on Foreign Policy (ICFE). To achieve this objective, CIPE established a working group in 2002 consisting of French- and Dutch-speaking university professors who are specialists in constitutional law. As you declared on 28 February last, at the UN rostrum in Geneva, "to work so that the working groups on the definition of the concept of minority can work", it appears that no more meetings have been held on this subject since 14 June 2016. This information demonstrates the inertia of the "minorities" working group, where its mandate as such is critical of resolution 1301 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, for which the reservations made by Belgium run the risk of "priving most of its provisions of effect and depriving the convention of its meaning", in violation of the law of treaties. The Venice Commission for Democracy through Law also defined the concept of national minority by stressing that, at regional level, in Belgium, "French-speaking people in Flanders and the German-speaking region can be considered a minority, as can Dutch-speaking and German-speaking people in the French-speaking region." Mr Minister, why is the working group on minorities no longer meeting? What follow-up is given to the latest decisions and recommendations made by this working group?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u5	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, my colleague has just listed a number of elements. Let us recall this request in 2016 from the coalition of French-speaking associations in Flanders to meet the CEIP expert group. You chair this group of experts, which brings together different representatives. Since 2016, APFF's request to meet with experts has remained unanswered. However, this group met on June 14, 2016. The report of that meeting had taken that request into account. This report, entitled "Possible contact with the associations concerned", reads as follows: "With regard to the APFF, members consider it necessary to be aware in advance of their views and questions as well as, where appropriate, of those of other relevant associations which would request it". This raises a number of questions. Two years have passed. The Association pour la Promotion de la Francophonie en Flandre has not been approached or questioned on these particularly important issues. Mr Minister, you are, through this presidency, the one who must give concrete effect to the decisions taken. Why was there no solicitation by this panel of experts and by the Chair you are? Why has the association not yet been invited? What about the decision made? Are you now planning to invite the Association for the Promotion of La Francophonie in Flanders? If so, when? If not, it would be a shame to note that the whole process that should lead Belgium to ratify the Framework Convention for the Protection of Minorities, seventeen years after its signature, would be blocked. If it's blocked, what's the reason? Was there any discussion about this at the federal government level? Are there partners of the majority who do not accept that the Association pour la Promotion de la Francophonie en Flandre be invited to the CIPE? How many meetings of this expert group have taken place on this subject since June 14, 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u6	Dear colleagues, I thank you for this question, which allows me to take stock of the work of the working group. I would like to say again that I am not chairing this group. I chair the Inter-Ministerial Conference, but not the working group on the definition of the concept of national minority. Given the sensitivity of the subject matter, much attention was given to the composition of the working group. It wants to be equal and respectful of the various political movements present in our country, at all levels of power. When a member of the working group withdraws, a replacement must be found that meets all these criteria; this may take time. Similarly, special attention is paid to the person who assumes the role of chair of the working group. To answer your question, this group has not met in two years. This was first related to the fact that a member had to be replaced and then to the fact that we could no longer find a suitable person to take over the chair of the group. In fact, the last Chair left his office a little unexpectedly shortly after the last meeting of the Expert Group in June 2016. To be precise, he was appointed head of the European delegation in Kinshasa. Follow-up to the decisions taken by the working group is the responsibility of its chairman. The absence of a new chair obviously has an impact on the progress of the discussions, on the follow-up of the discussions in this working group and on the implementation of certain conclusions. I can reassure you that a president should be appointed shortly. I expect the work of this working group to resume after the summer. The first task of the new president will be to follow up on the operational conclusions of the June 2016 expert meeting, including contacting APFF to ask the association to forward its views and questions in writing. I hope that as soon as we get back to school, we will be able to take stock of a working schedule for this group, whose full membership we are trying to ensure, by asking the various federated entities to appoint their representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u7	Minister, thank you and I hope that what you are announcing will come to fruition. The only thing we will do is come again to question you about the evolution of the work because such a long immobilism is worrying. As you know, in our small country, many problems arising from these minority issues are constant in various sensitive areas. This case really needs to move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answer. I quote: "Works must resume after the summer." We will see whether this will be the case and, above all, whether the APFF will be invited and concerted on this issue. I would simply like to recall how many times you and your party have already said that a broad consultation of civil society should be organised. This is therefore an opportunity since this expert group decided on a consultation and an invitation from stakeholders in June 2016. We'll see if that happens. Beyond that, I would like to quote you since in February 2018 you made statements at the UN rostrum. I quote: "More than ever, it must be reaffirmed that human rights are not a favour that States grant but an obligation to all". You had also clearly expressed yourself to reaffirm, you said, the encouragement to ratify, including the issue of minority concepts. In this case, the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe, to which the framework convention is owed, has not only already defined the concept of national minority but has also designated the national minorities to be protected in Belgium, namely the French-speaking population established in the Flemish Region and the Dutch-speaking population established in French-speaking regions. I therefore hope that there will no longer be bad blockages for bad reasons in this committee of experts and, beyond the work to be done in this committee, I hope that you will, next time you speak at the UN, be able to say how much progress Belgium has also made on minority issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u9	Mr President, Minister, on 13 June, the Parliament of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation voted in favour of a resolution on the organisation of the 19th Summit of La Francophonie in Brussels in 2022. The resolution asks the government of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation: "To consult with the federal government in order to ensure its clear commitment and willingness to take responsibility, in collaboration with the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, for its part in the organisation of a summit of la Francophonie, taking into account the financial capacities of each entity; to initiate the necessary consultations with the executive authorities which so wish to consider a joint organisation of a summit of la Francophonie; to set up, following the consultations, a committee of the various executive authorities responsible for assessing the candidature of the Brussels-Capital Region to host the 19th Summit of la Francophonie and to organise it afterwards; to act on the diplomatic work necessary for the organisation of such an event and to make the necessary contacts and decisions in connection with this internationally renowned candidature. Minister, what is the position of the federal government? Could he support the organisation of the 19th Summit of La Francophonie, in collaboration with the government of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Caprasse, I have taken note with interest of the resolution of the Parliament of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. The Prime Minister was referred to him by the Minister-President of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. The federal government is expected to consider this issue in the near future. If I am not mistaken, a summit will be held in Yerevan, the capital of Armenia, at the beginning of the year. I would like to stress the importance of the International Organization of la Francophonie, not only in the promotion of the French language, but also as a place for dialogue and the defence of values. This explains the interest in La Francophonie in countries whose first language is not French or who have turned away from it. Our commitment to the Francophonie is therefore part of broader support for multilateralism. Without commenting on a specific date, a city like Brussels – which is one of the main diplomatic capitals in the world – is undoubtedly destined to host a summit of La Francophonie. Depending on the timing, it is clear that I will support this approach, especially since the prime ministers have always been very anxious to participate in such summits. I remember the participation of prime ministers like Wilfried Martens or Yves Leterme. I believe that it was only in 2012 that a Belgian Prime Minister did not go there, since I had to represent him in Kinshasa. Otherwise, whatever the political majority, support is, in principle, important. In this case, an approach will be taken in favour of a Brussels application.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u11	Minister, thank you. We can only encourage you to support the organisation of such a summit in our capital. La Francophonie is indeed the flower of our culture. Knowing you, I know you're also very sensitive to this event.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u12	Mr President, Minister, a few months ago, a journalistic investigation told us that three Belgian companies had exported chemicals, including isopropanol, the potential component of sarin gas, to Syria while an international embargo prohibited it. Indeed, in 2013, the United Nations International Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons banned exports of chemicals to Syria. However, the investigation shows that 24 deliveries were made. It is known that in April 2017, a chemical attack was carried out using such a substance. This is indeed one of the OPCW's conclusions, which cannot, however, determine the source of the substance. In hindsight, Minister, could you explain to us the procedures to be followed in the event of an embargo decided by the United Nations? How do the authorities ensure that the embargo is respected? Who issues the specific authorisations required under this specific framework? Who issues export permits? How could these companies have led them to believe that they were sending these products to Syria for civilian use? How could they ignore the embargo? How could they not know that they are dual-use goods destined for the worst? How could we let these exports pass?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u13	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, I share your concern about this type of export. I mentioned it as soon as we heard the news. There is a need to clarify such situations. First of all, for information purposes, I would like to point out that there is no United Nations embargo against Syria, particularly because of Russia's position. It is impossible to reach an agreement at the level of the Security Council to sanction President al-Assad's regime. On the other hand, the European Union has approved an extended sanctions regime. Since July 2013, a number of chemicals have been subject to an export licence, if they exceed a given level of purity. The export of these products, which have multiple civilian applications, some of which are medical, is therefore not prohibited. The granting of licences for such products falls within the competence of the Regions; in this case, for the undertakings mentioned, the Flemish Region. According to the press, these companies did not apply for a licence. I would refer you to my colleague in charge of customs to obtain more information on the legal proceedings initiated by the customs authorities against the companies mentioned. An investigation is therefore under way and the judicial procedure will determine the procedure that has been followed. Was there a licence application or not? Was it granted or not? Has this been done within an acceptable framework, depending on the sanction decisions and regulations, or have these rules been exceeded, with the risks that this could entail? I do not have any other information at this time. I'm sending you back to the Minister of Finance, in charge of customs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u14	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u15	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the establishment of a European electoral threshold for the next European elections in May 2019. The Foreign Ministers discussed at a joint meeting the amendments proposed by the European Parliament to the European electoral law. One of the proposed amendments concerns the introduction of an electoral threshold of 3% in the forthcoming European elections. While all Member States apparently supported this proposal, Belgium expressed some reservations. Minister, can you explain to me the government's position on this issue? Can you explain to me the reasons why Belgium has been reluctant to this proposal which is thus isolated from all the other Member States?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u16	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, Belgium has indeed taken the decision to abstain on this proposal, as has Britain. During the negotiations, we had consistently advocated the establishment of an optional threshold that would allow each State to make the appropriate choice. That was the reason for our abstention. Furthermore, if I recall correctly, we were not directly concerned by the arrangements put in place since there were a minimum number of MEPs per State to apply this threshold, and we did not meet the conditions. This was a request from one of the major European States to resolve an internal problem, which led us to believe that there was no reason to make this mechanism mandatory, but to leave it to each of the Member States to decide on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u17	I thank the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u18	Question No 25203 by Mrs Pehlivan is transformed into a written question. We turn to the following question, by Mr Crusnière, concerning Belgium's candidacy for a non-permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u19	Mr President, this is no longer an issue, so I will withdraw it. However, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Minister on the success of this candidacy and, of course, all diplomacy and services. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u20	Let's turn it into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u21	Question No 25210 is therefore transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u22	I have informed Mr Dallemagne that these questions are now on the agenda and that he must hurry to our committee. Mr Luykx, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u23	Mr President, Minister, I have raised three questions on the Democratic Republic of Congo. In recent months there has been a lot to do in the DRC. I will try to keep the introduction to my questions brief. My first question concerns the mandate of the UN peacekeeping mission MONUSCO, which was renewed, but the Congolese authorities immediately announced that they would like to see that peacekeeping force leave in 2020. This happened in May 2018. During that period there was no Belgian ambassador present in Kinshasa. There were some incidents at the closure of the Congolese Consulate in Antwerp and then the Schengen House in Kinshasa. Those things are still dragging on. On this issue, Minister, I would have liked to have heard from you the views of the federal government on the repeated extensions of the mandate of the MONUSCO. In practice, that peacekeeping mission is working pretty well, so it's actually odd that the DRC should call it off. Two journalists who wished to enter the DRC were refused entry on the basis of an invalid visa. Has that ever happened? In what way are our compatriots protected from this and informed about it preventively? In the Chamber, you informed us that the Schengen States that had joined the Schengen House representation also wish to maintain consular cooperation. What steps are being taken to counter the deactivation of the Schengen House? The diplomatic vacuum may be a little inconvenient, given the bilateral tensions. In what way will this be corrected and in what way will efforts be made? A second question concerns the meeting of your former colleague François-Xavier de Donnea in Kinshasa with the Congolese Foreign Minister Okitundu. He left a few messages there. We hear from your administration that this was not a formal mandate but that Mr de Donnea was appointed facilitator du Partenariat pour les Fôrets du Bassin du Congo (PFBC). As a result of his presidency of this committee, I know that he is very much in the Congolese situation. Should we see that formal conversation with Okitundu framed in the absence of a Belgian ambassador? Do I have to read an effort to rekindle this bilateral cooperation? What was the outcome of that discussion with Mr de Donnea? At the beginning of June, Mr de Donnea also said at the end of the meeting that the situation of bilateral relations was such that a solution could be reached fairly quickly with regard to the closure of the Schengen House. I would have liked to have some explanation about this. In mid-June we heard that the Congolese presidential candidate Katumbi had been stopped in Zaventem with a forged passport. He has not been sent back, but has been given some time to obtain a valid ID through the embassy in Brussels. There are rumors that this would have been a Kabila trick to sideline his opponent, whether temporarily or not. A second player in the run-up to the possible elections is former Deputy Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Bemba, who has been acquitted of war crimes by the International Staff Court's appeal chamber in The Hague. The man has been given permission to stay in Belgium after his provisional release, where his family lives. A third dramatic event was the death of Congolese activist Nkulula in dubious circumstances in a fire in his home. Can you explain Katumbi's temporary residence permit? How do you see the release of the Bemba politician for the Congolese elections in December? Can he play another part? Is he a possible game changer? What is your response to the dubious death of the opposition figure who worked for La Lucha, la lutte pour le changement, at the fire in his home?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u24	Mr Dallemagne also raised questions on this subject. I will therefore also refer to the Virunga National Park and the presence of Mr de Donnea in Kinshasa. Thank you for your questions on developments in the DRC. I will first answer the questions concerning the declassification of the protected areas in the Salonga Park and the Virunga National Park. Then I will talk about politics and the elections, and I will decide on a state of our bilateral relations. With regard to the project to relocate the protected areas of the Virunga and Salonga Parks, the issue of the decommissioning of certain protected areas was worrying. At this stage, a decision of the Council of Ministers of 8 June concerns the establishment of two inter-ministerial committees to consider the oil issue and protected areas in order to prepare a dossier for the Council of Ministers. At present, we cannot prejudge the decisions that will be taken. I am, of course, talking about the Congolese Council of Ministers. Belgium is part of a very strong joint response by the European Union. Oil exploitation and exploration are not compatible with UNESCO's World Heritage status. Although UNESCO has not responded formally, the World Heritage Committee has always been clear that oil and mining exploration and exploitation are incompatible with the status of natural sites on the World Heritage List. Donors are following this very closely. The Belgian facilitation 2018-2019 of the Congo Basin Forest Partnership (CBFP), which is part of a commitment of the countries of the subregion to work within a regional framework of enhanced cooperation, encourages dialogue. In this context, the Belgian facilitator of the CBFP, the Minister of State François-Xavier de Donnea, mobilizes political representatives both at the level of the countries of the subregion and at the level of their international partners to take greater ownership of the guidelines discussed within the CBFP and enhance its impact on the ground, in particular through the relevant regional institutions. The annual meeting of the Parties to the Partnership, to be held in Brussels on 26 November, will also allow for this dialogue. In a communiqué issued by the Minister of Cooperation and myself on 5 June, we regretted the worsening security situation which led to the temporary closure of the Virunga National Park. A reopening is important not only for tourism and the resulting income but also for the protection of the unique biodiversity of the Virunga, for the development of the local economy around the park and for the living conditions of the four million inhabitants. I now turn to the political situation. On 15 June, on behalf of the Belgian Government, I responded to the decision of the International Criminal Court on the release of Jean-Pierre Bemba. The court asked our country to let Mr Bemba stay in Belgium after his provisional release, where his family lives. Our country has accepted this request and practical steps have been taken to make this possible. In its foreign policy, Belgium has always supported the international criminal courts. As far as the political impact of this decision is concerned, I do not wish to speculate, especially as long as the person concerned has not made a decision on his political future. I have been in contact with Mr Bemba after his arrival in Belgium and have been informed that it may be possible for him to return to Kinshasa at the beginning of August. He's trying to get a passport from the Congolese authorities. Mr Bemba's release and possible return to Kinshasa will change the political situation in Congo. Also in the case of Mr Moïse Katumbi's passport, you will understand that it is difficult to comment on a personal situation which is not within my competence, let alone to speculate on who would have played a role in certain complications that Mr Katumbi would have had to deal with. I can only conclude that there is often a difference between what I read in the press and the facts. In the final agreement between majority and opposition in Kinshasa, a long time ago, to hold elections last year, it was possible to take some positive measures. One of these is the possible presence of Mr Katumbi in Congo. Until now, this has never been the case, but I hope it will be possible to facilitate relations between the government and the President of Congo and some members of the opposition, such as Mr Katumbi. What is clear is that, almost two years after the election period and less than six months before the new date announced, many uncertainties remain. First, on a technical level, since an audit of the OIF electoral file detected major flaws. The voting machine is always contested. The lack of transparency in the preparations for elections by CENI remains a major obstacle to the credibility of the electoral process. The international community seems to be largely excluded from the electoral process. As far as public space is concerned, the picture is also bleak. In order to restore confidence in the process, concrete progress is needed: the implementation of the descriptor measures (I mentioned one in relation to members of the opposition); the participation of all persons in elections in the same spirit; respect for the right to protest and all fundamental rights and freedoms; the end of the duplication of opposition parties; the opening up of all private media and equitable access to the public media. Other measures are still to be taken. I would also like to pay tribute to Luc Nkulula, one of La Lucha's leading activists. We hope that the specific circumstances of the fire at his home in Goma that led to his death will be clarified. In terms of security, the beginning of 2018 was also marked by increased insecurity in the East, with the most recent crisis taking place in Ituri. There has been an increase in the activity of armed groups, with significant humanitarian consequences. This will need to be closely monitored in the context of the implementation of the new mandate of MONUSCO, which was unanimously adopted on 27 March for another year. United Nations Security Council resolution 24/09 calls for an exit strategy linked to the successful holding of elections and sustainable progress towards reducing the threat posed by armed groups. Protection of civilians and support for the electoral process are identified as key priorities. At the United Nations level, the Security Council will continue to monitor the situation closely, as the matter will be discussed on a monthly basis. At a European level, at a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council on 28 May, I insisted that there should be an inclusive and credible presidential election process to be held on 23 December this year. The European Union will also remain seized of the matter in the coming weeks. My recent discussions with the representative of the region, such as the Chairman of the African Commission, Mr. Faki, the President of Angola, Mr. Lourenço and President Kagame, indicated that there was broad convergence of views between the European Union, the United Nations and the African Union. The priorities of the region do not differ in any way from ours: sustained pressure for the implementation of the Saint-Sylvestre Agreement, elections no later than the end of 2018, the opening of the democratic space, a credible electoral process allowing a result accepted by all. We fear that problems will arise until the beginning of the process. The elections in December 2018 are already being prepared. For example, we are already in the process of introducing the various candidates at provincial and parliamentary level and then before the presidential elections. There are, however, several bad signals, such as President Kabila's refusal to meet the Secretary-General of the United Nations, António Guterres, in Kinshasa, nor the chairman of the African Union Commission, Mr Faki, with whom I have been in contact, although both gentlemen are representatives of the international community. A possibility of contact with the United Nations and the African Union is already excluded before 15 August. Just before this committee meeting, I had contact with Smaïl Chergui of the African Union's Peace and Security Committee. He has confirmed to me that so far it is impossible to have contact on the ground. We are now waiting for a possible statement from President Kabila on 19 or 20 July, but nothing is certain of that. On a bilateral level, we have often discussed the Congolese measures, such as the recall of the ambassadors. As I indicated earlier, the Congolese measures are primarily affecting the Congolese people, but indeed some Belgians who had obtained a visa from the Congolese Consulate General in Antwerp, which was also closed by the DRC. We advised our fellow countrymen to obtain a visa from the DRC ambassador in Brussels via the travel advice on the Foreign Affairs website. We continue to make efforts to speed up the recovery of relations. Following the mission of a delegation from the relevant cabinet in February, our embassy in Kinshasa continued to maintain contact with all political actors. On the occasion of the Congolese national holiday, I also informed my homologist that I wanted to continue the dialogue in order to solve concrete problems. A reopening of the Schengen House would be highly desirable. This is also the express wish of our Schengen partners, who have been partly affected by the measures taken to close it. Mr de Donnea's recent visit to Congo represents, as I said, his facility for the PFBC. So it was mainly about natural resources. My Congolese colleague used that conversation to talk about bilateral relations and send out a constructive signal, which is very positive. Minister of State de Donna is of course in close contact with the embassy and with my cabinet. I am always ready to take new initiatives to engage in dialogue. My employees also have regular contact in this area. In addition, we will of course continue to follow closely the electoral process. We are also trying to help all the countrymen in difficulty in Congo. You have set the example of the journalists. We always try to provide consular assistance and take immediate action. I would like to add that I have sent a permanent invitation to my Congolese foreign minister. I think it would be useful to send a new mission to Kinshasa with some of my cabinet's staff and the Prime Minister's staff in order to make sure that we have a concrete evolution on the ground. It seems very useful to me to get a positive message about the Schengen House or the flights from Brussels Airlines to Kinshasa. There are a lot of possible topics to talk about. In any case, I think it would be useful to send a positive message to Kinshasa for dialogue. We have not taken any measures, we are merely asking for relations to be restored on the basis of a number of decisions to be taken in Kinshasa, including on the Schengen House. We will monitor the situation. There are still a number of uncertainties. Perhaps a speech from President Kabila could shed light on the next few months. We are in close contact with our partners in the European Union. Today I have been in contact with my colleague from the African Union. I am also thinking of the Presidents of the neighbouring countries. During the Development Days, I was in contact with the Presidents of Angola and Rwanda. We pressed for elections on 23 December 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It seems to me that it is difficult to find a diplomatic balance between, on the one hand, the pursuit of results in the promotion of democracy and the organisation of elections and, on the other hand, the workability of bilateral relations and dealing with problems arising in the margins of these relations, for example, the Schengen story. I have known Mr de Donnea for years as chairman of the committee, and I know that he is very much involved in many files in DRC, such as the Virunga Park. I think all the little bits contribute to achieving results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u26	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Bellens' 25620 and 25621 have been converted into written questions, as well as Questions No. No 25622 by Mrs Bellens, Point 25775 by Mr Flahaux and others: Bull. 25923 by Mr Crusnière.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u27	Mr President, Minister, my combined questions concern the situation in Burundi. The constitutional referendum of 17 May was, not surprisingly, adopted by more than 70% of the votes. It was feared that President Nkurunziza would use the change to increase presidential power and extend his term of office, thus remaining in power until 2034. It was therefore somewhat surprising that President Nkurunziza himself indicated that he would keep his word and not use the constitutional change to perpetuate his power. Consequently, he will resign in 2020. Everyone expected, however, that he would use the amendment of the constitution to remain seated and thus destroy the spirit of the Arusha agreements. At the time, the campaign for the referendum was conducted in a repressive and violent context. In particular, the youth section of the president's party and the security services intimidated the people who opposed the constitutional change. Journalists and opposition also had a very difficult time in the climate of the referendum. Radio stations like the BBC were suspended. Human rights violations also persisted. Thus, at the end of April, human rights defender Germain Rukuki was sentenced to 22 years in prison for rebellion. In this tense political climate, the consequences for the needs of the population are, of course, also serious. According to the United Nations, 3.6 million Burundians are now dependent on humanitarian aid. How do you estimate President Nkurunziza's statements on the constitutional referendum? How do you estimate the risk of President Nkurunziza using the constitutional change to increase Presidential power and his party's power and to maintain his own power through possible successors after 2020? How can Belgium, in cooperation with the international community, ensure that the President keeps his word and does not extend his term of office? What is your analysis of the current situation, including humanitarian developments? How did you react to the suspension of the various radio stations by the Burundian government and the conviction of Germain Rukuki?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u28	Mr Flahaux and Mr Dallemagne are not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u29	Mr President, Mrs Van Hoof, I also have an answer for the other two colleagues. So I have a bilingual answer. The situation in Burundi remains marked by many uncertainties and questions after the referendum on the amendment of the Constitution, followed by the announcement of President Nkurunziza. I spoke on the referendum and the constitutional review in a press release on 23 May. I noted that, although the opposition was finally able to campaign, it was held in a climate of tension and intimidation and the constitutional review process was not sufficiently inclusive. The new constitution is problematic, as many of its provisions are not in line with the spirit and letter of the Arusha Agreement. This agreement guarantees the right of ethnic and political minorities and thus the stability of Burundi. Despite the news of President Nkurunziza's announcement, we must not forget these threats to Arusha. As such, our Permanent Representative to the United Nations is in contact with our Dutch colleagues for a possible meeting of the guarantors of this agreement. Turning to President Nkurunziza's announcement on 7 June, the day of the promulgation of the Constitution, I have of course welcomed this news, although we still have to consider its consequences. We must take the president at the word but observe this as a starting point. If we want credible elections in 2020, we must of course respect the commitments and agreements reached, but above all open the public space and allow a dialogue that creates the conditions for the opening of these elections to all political forces. As far as the international community is concerned, it has not remained indifferent to President Nkurunziza's announcement. The African Union proposes a roadmap to accompany President Nkurunziza's decision and prepare the conditions for free elections by 2020. We are also waiting for news of the EAC mediation that has not organised a meeting since December 2017. Finally, the Burundian crisis is still on the UN agenda. UN Special Envoy Michel Kaphando should soon travel to Burundi and from January 2019 Belgium will be able to follow this closely within the Security Council. Of course, we continue to be very concerned about the human rights situation, in particular the intimidation of civil society activists such as Germain Rukuki and Nestor Nibitanga. The case of Germain Rukuki and the attack on freedom of the press were mentioned by the EU in its statement of 8 May 2018. As I said, Belgium has endorsed this declaration. Our embassy is following this case on the ground in cooperation with its European colleagues, the UN and the African Union. Observing human rights on the ground is very delicate. The UN has a human rights agency on the ground and the African Union sent an observation mission, but in both cases no headquarters agreement has yet been concluded with the Burundian authorities. At the General Assembly last year in New York, I received a message from my Burundian Foreign Minister to say that it was almost settled. Two more paragraphs were needed to decide. Now, almost one year later, there is still no seat agreement with the two institutions. The four human rights experts sent to Burundi under the African Resolution of the UN Human Rights Council of September 2017 were expelled after only a few days. As far as the UN Commission on Human Rights in Burundi is concerned, it has never had access to the territory. The committee will present its final report at the Council's meeting in September. This report will also deal with the economic and social rights of Burundians, because here too the situation is very worrying. We will monitor the situation over the next few weeks and months, but the only solution to this crisis is a dialogue between the majority and the opposition. That is not only a question from us but also from the African Union. Before our meeting, I was in contact with Smail Chergui of the African Union's Peace and Security Committee. There is now a real map of the African Union. We must put strong pressure on the Burundian government to enter into this dialogue. Until now, there has been an internal dialogue, but without openness to the opposition. I hope that after the President's announcement the dialogue can be established, but that is not yet certain. I have told Mr Chergui that we are also prepared to take initiatives. We are thinking not only of the political situation but also of the humanitarian and security situation in various parts of Burundi.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u30	Thank you, Minister. The situation remains worrying. I have the impression that Nkurunziza is at the wheel and that the African Union and the UN are looking at that. It is good that concrete instruments such as the road map will be used. That element can be very concrete in order to restart the dialogue in this way. Moreover, it is also a good thing that, from 2019 onwards, we may be able to send more via the Security Council, in order to exert some pressure on the regime.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u31	The following questions will be converted into written questions: No 25732 by Mrs Pehlivan, Mr Dallemagne, No 25735 Mr Van Hecke, No. 25745 Mr De Vriendt, No 25747. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. Mr De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u32	Minister, in June Brussels welcomed many heads of state, politicians, NGOs and representatives of international organisations for the European Development Days. One of the Heads of State at the meeting was the Rwandan President Kagame. As President of Rwanda, this man occasionally drives a somewhat questionable course. Thus, through a controversial referendum, he was able to extend his presidency and maintain a very strict regime, with little democratic space. That's what we've been notified by NGOs. They also mention a lot of human rights violations. Kagame is also President of the African Union this year and thus plays an important coordinating and dialogue role on the African continent. That meeting has taken place in the meantime. What themes were discussed? Have any positions been expressed to the President on behalf of the government? What were the conclusions? Was there any mention, for example, of the possible pressure that could be exerted on the DRC and a way out of the political crisis there? Did you talk about that? Have you talked about the situation in Rwanda itself? Have the lack of democratic space and human rights violations been addressed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u33	Mr President, Minister, I also wanted to ask you about your meeting with the President of the African Union, Mr Kagame. I will not repeat everything that has just been said by my colleague. He was indeed present in the framework of the Development Days. Minister, can you give us the record of your meeting with Mr. Kagame? I imagine that you also discussed with him the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. If so, can you tell us a little about his position in relation to the situation in this country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u34	Mr President, Kagame's visit, on the occasion of the European Development Days, raises similar questions to those of my fellow Members. Minister, did the situation in Congo come up in your conversation with the President? Were the situation of the Rwandan refugees and the armed groups in Eastern Congo also discussed? Since he is President of the African Union, I wonder how he sees his role in the Congolese crisis. Has the human rights situation been discussed in Rwanda? I have already asked Minister De Croo about the new cooperation agreement with Rwanda. If you have any additional elements in this respect, we are of course interested in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you recalled, President Paul Kagame took part, from 5 to 6 June 2018, in the European Development Days. It was on the margins of these meetings that a bilateral component was organized with the President of Rwanda, who currently holds the presidency of the African Union. President Kagame was received for dinner on June 4, 2018 by the Prime Minister and an interview at the Royal Palace was scheduled for June 5, 2018, which I attended. The main topics raised during these discussions were bilateral relations, the situation in the region, the internal situation in Rwanda and multilateral cooperation. As far as the Democratic Republic of the Congo is concerned, I was able to note that there was strong convergence, as I mentioned earlier, with the other countries in the region. Having met the previous day with the President of Angola and, a few weeks earlier, with the Chairman of the African Union Commission, Moussa Faki, and the Commissioner for Peace and Security, Smaïl Chergui, I have also noticed a willingness to act in a concerted manner and within regional and multilateral frameworks. The countries of the region are concerned, want open elections and that President Kabila respects the Constitution and the existing agreements. They fear, above all, serious destabilization if otherwise. The current situation in the areas of security, refugees and political space is already worrying. The situation in Burundi, which concerns both Rwanda and Belgium, was also discussed. It is for Rwanda to skip the desire to stay out of the conflict and to minimise the negative impact of the situation in Burundi on Rwanda. The human rights situation in Rwanda was discussed and I raised a number of individual cases which were discussed in detail several weeks before in the framework of the bilateral dialogue between the senior officials in Kigali. For us, the human rights context is of great importance. Furthermore, in the framework of the Universal Periodic Review at the Human Rights Council, we made recommendations to Rwanda. In May, a coalition of NGOs whose activities are partly financed by Belgium issued a mid-term evaluation report on the implementation of these UPR recommendations. We must, of course, follow that closely. As you know, we have already taken decisions in the past on development cooperation in the light of the evolution of human rights in Rwanda, which I believe you have already discussed with my colleague, who is responsible for development cooperation. For now, I'd say it's a bit of a sense of stagnation. Some progress has been made in the legislative framework, but the implementation of these legislative advances and the interpretation of laws are weak. There is also a series of individual cases that are problematic and that we regularly talk about, as I did with President Kagame during his last visit. That is the whole meaning of the ongoing dialogue we have with Rwanda. It is important to be able to say things frankly when we do not agree, but also to work together on what unites us. It was in this spirit and in a very constructive way that all bilateral relations were mentioned, even though it was not the ideal format for discussing in detail relations in the field of cooperation. I invite you to ask my colleague in charge of development cooperation the questions on this subject. We have, on the other hand, spoken of multilateral cooperation. Rwanda has nominated Louise Mushikiwabo for the post of Secretary-General of la francophonie. This candidacy has since been endorsed by the African Union. The Belgian seat on the Security Council and the reform of the African Union were also mentioned. I myself spoke about this candidacy with Louise Mushikiwabo herself, just before the meeting we have just held at the Egmont Palace about Somalia. In your questions, you compare the three countries. There are certainly similarities: they are all partners in Belgian cooperation to varying degrees and, as I mentioned, there are concerns about rights and freedoms and political openness. However, there are also significant differences in compliance with the texts and agreements reached. Belgium is not in a position to give lessons on constitutional changes, but when agreements are reached, I am thinking of Arusha for Burundi or the agreements of the Saint-Sylvestre for the DRC, we must stick to them. It can be seen that, when this is not the case, it causes strong tensions. There is also a difference between the three countries in governance and economic management. Finally, it cannot be denied that Rwanda plays a leading role in the African Union. That is why political dialogue with all the countries of the region is absolutely essential, even if opinions sometimes differ. That is what an efficient policy in Central Africa means. The principles of engagement, coherence, respect, efficiency and multilateralism in the 2016 Central Africa Strategy Paper remain our guiding principles. In recent years, we have had difficult times with Rwanda. I am thinking, for example, of the situation with M23 in eastern Congo. Then we had a difficult relationship with Rwanda. For some time now, we have had a better relationship when it comes to regional problems. We can have multilateral talks in different fora, but we remain very attentive to human rights in Rwanda, not only in general matters but also in individual cases. We will continue our approach, including for individual cases, in all bilateral contacts with our Rwandan partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u36	Minister, we sometimes put the three countries side by side, but there are many differences. I have seen this myself with Mr van der Maelen and Mr de Donnea on a visit to Rwanda. It is good that you give your comments openly and honestly at those meetings, even though that is not in the most ideal format. We certainly appreciate that you are giving those points of criticism. That must be done, but this must go hand in hand with cooperation and the maintenance of these contacts. I am pleased that you confirm that human rights were discussed during that meeting. Our note on Central Africa and its policy in recent years is certainly a success. There is indeed a certain change, a more rigorous approach, a certain objectification and the linking of policy to results on the ground. This is an attitude which we certainly appreciate and which we hope will be maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u37	I thank the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In the context of human rights, the main challenge for Belgium is to be credible in relation to Rwanda. From the answer given by Minister De Croo, I understand that an innovative project on democratic space will be launched. I'm sure the State Department will be involved. In this way, we can see how we will deal with these countries in the future in terms of human rights and how we can adapt our programmes if necessary to give signals on this issue. It remains a focus and we need to look for ways to deal with it, and not just support regimes that we know are affecting the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u39	The following questions will be converted into written questions: No 25827 by Mr Luykx, Mr Van der Maelen, No. 25837 Point 25866, by Mr Flahaux, points 258 to 25866, by Mr Flahaux, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 25839 and 25925 by Mr Luykx.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u40	Mr President, Minister, according to a report by the Belgian NGOs on the financial relations between the Israeli banks involved in the Israeli settlement economy and the banks operating in Belgium, it appears that by investing in these Israeli banks, financial institutions operating in Belgium support the Israeli settlement economy. They would also violate their own corporate social responsibility policies and the United Nations guidelines on business and human rights. Among the banks operating in Belgium, Deutsche Bank would hold or manage shares in five of these Israeli banks, for a total amount of €21.96 million, and BNP Paribas would be linked to an Israeli bank for a total amount of €6.08 million. However, Belgium and the European Union have an obligation to put an end to the economic and financial ties which encourage such violations of international law. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you about this point. What measures does Belgium intend to put in place, on the one hand, to prevent companies from investing in the Israeli settlement economy and, on the other hand, to support the publication of the United Nations database on enterprises involved in colonization? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u41	Mr President, Mrs Grovonius, my services have been informed of this study. The issue is obviously not new and the European Union has for years developed a policy of differentiation in relations with Israel, between the territory of that country itself and the settlements in the Palestinian territory, in order to avoid any confusion between the two. However, this policy does not seek to impose a blockade aimed at boycotting any economic activity related to the occupied territories, let alone Israel. A part of this policy is based on common messages or business guidelines approved at European level in 2013. They aim at discouraging the participation of European companies and citizens in economic and financial activities promoting colonization. Their attention is drawn to the economic and legal risks that may arise from such activities as a result of possible violations of international humanitarian or human rights law. Without omitting to highlight any implications for their reputation. In Belgium, in order to reach the widest possible audience, these messages were disseminated on the websites of Foreign Affairs and the SPF Economic Affairs. On the Foreign Affairs website, the travel advice section on Israel and the Palestinian territories also refers to these common messages. Some 20 Member States of the European Union have also issued these advices to businesses. We urge above all that all Member States do the same within a reasonable time. As far as the two companies mentioned in your question are concerned, I see two reasons to be cautious before drawing conclusions: although active in Belgium, none of them have its head office and their activities in Israel have no connection with their activities in Belgium. We have sufficiently criticized the United States for the extensive way in which it applies the effects of its legislation to any company active in its territory, to think twice before risking doing the same. In addition, the activities mentioned in the report relate to indirect investment in Israeli banks. Assimilating this, without any more, to support for colonization is very close to a plea for a boycott of Israel, which, I repeat, is contrary to the whole spirit of the policy of differentiation. As for the United Nations database on enterprises involved in colonization, I would like to remind you that Belgium has voted in favour of all the resolutions establishing and extending this mandate given to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. The database is currently confidential because the High Commissioner himself felt that it was not ready. I respect his willingness not to cast names of companies on the public prematurely without having verified the facts which might be accused of them and without giving them the opportunity to react beforehand. This issue will return next year to the agenda of the Human Rights Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u42	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. We see all the difficulty of sticking to perhaps superficial implementation of the policy of differentiation. I am well aware of the desire not to set up a form of blockade or boycott, even if I may doubt it. But what we see above all is that through this policy of differentiation applied as it is today at European level and in Belgium, unfortunately, we continue, in one way or another, to support the Israeli settlements. In doing so, we do not respect our obligations, particularly in the field of international law, not to promote this colonization and all economic and financial ties that encourage violations of international law. These are issues which we have already discussed many times in this committee and which we will continue to debate. There are points on which we do not agree. I think that if, in Belgium, we do not go further in the way in which we implement this policy of differentiation, if we do not come out of the purely informative aspect to move towards an obligation, unfortunately we will never achieve any convincing results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u43	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Luykx's 25986 and 25994 have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u44	Minister, at the beginning of the legislature, I worked on a motion for a resolution on the relationship between Belgium and Taiwan, which was adopted in the Chamber on 19 November 2015. The resolution underlined the international importance of peaceful relations between the areas on the banks of the Taiwan Strait and the economic added value of good relations between Belgium and Taiwan. On 16 May, the representative of Taiwan to the European Union and Belgium, Mr Harry Tsang, was invited to the External Relations Committee to explain the situation in the Taiwan Strait and bilateral relations with China. That hearing was very interesting. There was also a significant turnout of MEPs. As far as I know or could find out, that was also the first time we had a hearing with Taiwan's representative in the External Relations Committee. After two and a half years, it might be good to return to the 2015 resolution and evaluate its implementation. The authors of the resolution launched a number of requests to the government, which can be summarised in three key words: pacification, economic interests and international involvement. Minister, how does Belgium contribute today to initiatives that encourage dialogue between China and Taiwan? How does the federal government support the development of economic contacts between the European Union and Taiwan? What is the timetable and state of play with regard to the negotiations for a bilateral investment agreement between the European Union and Taiwan? Finally, how does the federal government support initiatives that increase Taiwan's international involvement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u45	Mr Luykx, unfortunately the number of contacts between China and Taiwan is currently limited. Like the European Union, the Belgian Government encourages both parties to take initiatives that strengthen mutual trust and dialogue. Better understanding would benefit not only many actors in China and Taiwan, but also stability in the wider region. Pending an improvement in the Cross-Strait relations, Belgium focuses on areas where it can work separately with both parties. Relations with Taiwan include technical contacts in the fields of trade, culture and academic relations. As far as economic relations between the European Union and Taiwan are concerned, Belgium is Taiwan's fifth largest trading partner. Together with regional export and investment services, the federal government is actively promoting our companies and improving market access for Belgian products in Taiwan. The government supports the activities of several companies in Taiwan, both those with a local location for years, and the newcomers who are coming to explore the market. A particular focus is on recent developments in the Taiwanese offshore wind sector, which attracts Belgian and European know-how. The European Union is the main investor in Taiwan, but unfortunately the number of Taiwanese investments in Europe remains very low. Taiwanese interlocutors are regularly reminded of this, but for the time being this has not led to a significant increase in the number of Taiwanese direct investment in the European Union. Belgium is also involved in the preparation and follow-up of the various economic dialogue mechanisms with Taiwan, such as the recently held EU-Taiwan Industrial Policy Dialogue. In addition, Belgian companies, encouraged and supported by federal and regional governments, participate in European initiatives that can create new commercial opportunities, such as the recent Europe Innovation Week and the simultaneous exchanges Computex and Innovex in Taipei. On 14 October 2015, the European Commission published the Communication "Trade for all: towards a more responsible trade and investment policy'. In it she indicated that she would like to investigate a possible future investment agreement with Taiwan. Since then, the Commission has had a number of contacts with Taiwanese interlocutors and is currently considering further preparatory steps. It is not clear whether it has a specific timetable for this. Like the European Union, the Belgian federal government believes in the context of its so-called 1 China policy, which differs from the Beijing 1 China principle, that Taiwan cannot become a member of organizations whose membership requires the status of sovereign country. However, Belgium, like its European partners, also believes that a significant Taiwanese presence at the appropriate level in specialized multilateral fora should be possible, if it is in the interests of our country and the international community. Taiwan and China are therefore encouraged to make concrete agreements on this matter. Unfortunately that hasn't happened since the beginning of 2016. The government continues to monitor the problem closely. In short, we are trying to support the many companies and organisations that want to connect with Taiwan. We are also aiming for more foreign trade and more investment from both partners. The only way to achieve this is to have a better relationship between China and Taiwan, which is still not there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u46	We can only welcome the efforts to develop closer relations with Taiwan in the field of trade and culture. As regards dialogue and communication between China and Taiwan, I recall that Mr Tsang said at the hearing that this is not excluded at all and is even open to it. We are also looking forward to the commitments and efforts that will be made at European level to involve Taiwan more in international trade.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I am informed that the disturbing noise comes from the air conditioning system in our Chamber. At present, this cannot be remedied.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u48	Mr Minister, the question I tabled is now somewhat outdated, because the elections in Turkey took place on 24 June. For the first time in history, both parliamentary and presidential elections were held. After almost sixteen years of Turkey's leadership with its AKP, Turkish President Erdogan came out again as a winner. With his oath at the beginning of this month, the reform of the Turkish state from a parliamentary to a presidential system is a fact. Erdogan is now also the leader of the government, in addition to the head of state of Turkey, which, if he wins the next election, he can stay until 2029. The reform that was implemented makes him more powerful than ever. President Erdogan promised a new beginning for Turkey. He wants to improve Turkey in all respects, and he hopes to be able to fulfil his electoral promise to make Turkey a major world economic power. When he first took office as Prime Minister, Erdogan managed to liberalise the economy. Over the past 15 years, he has also raised almost EUR 200 billion in foreign investment. Turkey's gross national product would have tripled between 2003 and 2013. Yet the Turkish economy is sputtering again today. The remarkable economic rise has made a very strong nod. Minister, how do you assess the new presidential system that entered into force and the authoritarian course that Erdogan is pursuing? How do you estimate the opportunity for President Erdogan to cope with the deteriorating economic situation, now that he also has political power? My final question is perhaps the most important question. Will relations between the European Union and Turkey possibly change as a result of these developments?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u49	Mr President, Minister, it is with pleasure that I find you. I participated on behalf of our Assembly in the observation mission to the parliamentary and presidential elections in Turkey; elections in which Recep Tayyip Erdogan was re-elected by winning the majority in Parliament with 52% of the vote. Like the head of European diplomacy, Federica Mogherini, the preliminary report of the OSCE and the Council of Europe highlighted the unfair campaigning conditions of the various parties, particularly in the media. On election day, procedures were generally followed, although important legal measures were often omitted during the count. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Minister, the following questions. What is the position of Belgian diplomacy on this electoral process? Should a common analysis of the European Union be adopted, including for the monitoring of these results as announced and the new presidential regime now in force? In the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, will our country take a clear position on the current state of emergency in that country since the failed coup and the issue of the protection of national minorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u50	Mr President, I have also had the opportunity on various occasions to take an interest in the situation in Turkey. A parliamentary delegation visited the country last September, allowing us to take the pulse on the situation in Turkish society and to exchange ideas with the various parliamentarians. My question goes in the same direction because, as a member of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, we have recently had an opportunity in Berlin to take stock of the situation informally. Various comments were made because, according to some of the mission's observers, the obstacles to fundamental freedoms were noted and had an impact on the elections. The High Representative of the European Union, Federica Mogherini, added that "the restrictive legal framework and powers conferred by the current state of emergency restrict freedom of assembly and expression, including in the media". These statements did not facilitate the campaign of some candidates. What were the elements referred to by the observers for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE)? What has been the impact of the state of emergency on the electoral process? Will this election mark a status quo in the relationship between the EU and Turkey or will it involve changes?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for giving me the opportunity to address the results of the early parliamentary and presidential elections on 24 June and their involvement in the future of relations between Turkey, on the one hand, and Belgium and the European Union, on the other. These elections were crucial for Turkey as they marked the entry into force of the new presidential system approved by referendum in April 2017. On the elections themselves, we must first welcome the extremely high turnout, and more than 86 per cent of Turkish voters went to the polls. This exceptional mobilisation, confirmed by the observers, deployed by the OSCE in particular demonstrates the Turkish people's strong commitment to the democratic process. As assessed by members of the OSCE Election Observation Mission, voters had a real choice among a wide range of candidates and parties in the run. However, the OSCE report also underlines that the election campaign did not offer all parties the same opportunities for access to the media and coverage of campaign activities. Moreover, by means of special powers in the context of the state of emergency, the executive has restricted freedom of expression. As the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Mogherini stated in its Declaration of 25 June, it is up to Turkey to address the main gaps in the rule of law and fundamental rights as soon as possible. Following Mrs Mogherini, I can also share with you the fundamental questions raised by the entry into force of the new presidential system. As early as March 2017, the Council of Europe's Venice Commission had made serious criticisms of this new presidential system and its implications for Turkish democracy. The Venice Commission had thus considered that the constitutional amendments introduced in Turkey a regime which would not have the necessary checks and balances to avoid slipping towards an authoritarian regime, the shortcomings in the separation of powers and the independence of the judiciary representing particular reasons for concern in this respect. What action should we take now? As the EU General Affairs Council indicated on 26 June, Turkey remains and remains an important partner for the European Union, but it can only be seen that Turkey, as the conclusions also point out, has moved further away from the European Union. The accession negotiations with Turkey have actually stopped. No chapter is considered for opening or closing. Preparatory work for the modernisation of the customs union has also been suspended. Belgium's position in this respect is very clear, both within the European institutions and in the Council of Europe's fora. We strongly urge the lifting of the state of emergency as a first step towards a return to the rule of law and democratic values. We also hope that Turkey will re-engage with the various interlocutors in the Council of Europe, which has the expertise and authority to support the country towards a return to normalcy and respect for its international obligations. We have already made a number of comments in the EU and NATO on the situation in Syria. We believe it is normal for allies in NATO to hold an open discussion on Turkey's actions on Syria's territory. I have responded to this in the EU and in the NATO meeting. I hope that we can achieve standardisation, but we have not yet received a clear indication from the Turkish President or the Government. Turkey is a very important partner for various reasons, not only for defence within NATO, but also for migration and other security issues such as foreign fighters who wish to return from Syria or Iraq to Turkey. At the moment, however, it is impossible to go further on the issue of Turkey's accession to the EU. It is impossible to have a normal relationship with Turkey without anything changing in Turkey. We are trying to conduct a dialogue, as are our European partners, but I must say that it is not easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I do indeed believe that there is still a great deal of concern about Turkey and what is going on there with the rule of law, the freedom of the media and so on. We also adopted a resolution on Turkey in Parliament two years ago. It is indeed important that there should be normalization, but the cessation of the state of emergency is only a first step. Much remains to be done in order to achieve standardisation and, where appropriate, to take further steps afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u53	Minister, thank you for that answer. I take note of Belgium's position that the state of emergency should be lifted. Turkey is indeed an important partner for Europe. As an observer, I must confess that I did not observe any irregularities as "control and detection" but I was in Ankara, which is not necessarily the most risky place, except that I stayed five hours in a counting office where I was really wanted to show that everything was in order. On the other hand, I regret that the European authorities have not insisted more on allowing the opposition to be more proactive and to have real visibility throughout the campaign. I want proof of what we've been through here, since it was the world: Erdogan propaganda, ten minutes before the game, ten minutes during the half-time and ten minutes after the game. This is a bit of a pity, but, despite everything, we have seen a fairly large opposition emerge with Mr Ince's personality, who led an extraordinary campaign and who, in two months, I hope, was able to demonstrate that there will be a real opposition to the new presidential system.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u54	Minister, I also thank you for the answers. I fully agree when you say that we must remain cautious, that we must continue to observe and that, despite everything, the partnership that we, Belgium or the European Union, must have with Turkey is obviously important in more than one way, not only in terms of our trade relations but also in terms of security policy. This remains important. A bond will of course continue to be woven. I note, however, that positive impulses have emerged, including ballot boxes, and the strong participation of the Turkish people attests to this democratic vigour. Let us hope that the situation evolves more positively!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u55	Mr President, this question was tabled some time ago. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the last G7, although on good bases, proved to be a failure. The G7 members had managed to draft a joint declaration on trade to facilitate international trade and to seek solutions to protectionist policies and rising trade barriers while considering the modernization of the World Trade Organization (WTO). Nevertheless, a few hours after this communiqué was concluded, US President Donald Trump decided to withdraw following a dispute with the Canadian Prime Minister. As a result, Trump again threatened to tax imports of cars into the United States. If it implements this, many fear the arrival of an open trade war between the United States and its partners. In particular, the US President targets European taxes on imports of cars from countries outside the European Union, which amount to 10% when US customs duties only amount to 2.5%. With regard to this overall situation, the French President recalled that there was no change in the European countermeasures announced on bourbon or on American motorcycles. Minister, what are the consequences of the withdrawal of Donald Trump's signature from the joint statement drafted by the G7 members? Should we really expect a trade war? I repeat that my question is already somewhat dated. Will the European Union retain its countermeasures? What can be expected as reactions from the international community? This is a very broad question, and I agree with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u56	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, the withdrawal of President Trump's signature from the joint statement drafted by the G7 members does not in fact have direct consequences. On the other hand, this regrettable act is in addition to a series of new American measures that directly or indirectly undermine the proper functioning and credibility of the rules-based international trading system. Belgium and the European Union deeply regret the American attitude in the two so-called "section 232" dossiers. With regard to the first of these cases, which deals with imports of steel and aluminium, we have already reacted firmly, but proportionally and in compliance with WTO rules. We have made a request for formal consultation with the WTO dispute settlement body. We have adopted without change the two lists of rebalancing measures covering a range of sensitive U.S. products. We have also reacted through the preparation of safeguard measures. U.S. companies are beginning to feel the negative effects of U.S. policy, such as Harley Davidson, who relocated the manufacture of his motorcycles to its subsidiaries outside the U.S., or General Motors, who said he wanted to do the same. Meanwhile, on 23 May, the United States decided to launch a second study on imports of cars, car parts and trucks. We are following very closely this worrying new development whose impact on our economies is likely to be quite different from the impact of tariff measures on steel and aluminium. Although the investigation is still ongoing, we reserve the right to react, if necessary, proportionately and in full compliance with WTO rules. On the other hand, we believe that we must not lose sight of the main cause of this problem, which is that of overcapacity and the lack of level playing field in global markets. From this point of view, it is important that the European Union continue to engage in dialogue with the United States in order to resolve these problems. In this context, European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker will meet with US President Donald Trump at the end of this month in Washington. Reactions within the WTO and countries such as Canada, Mexico and Norway were very similar to those of the European Union. As shown in this context, inter alia, through the initial reactions of countries such as India and Russia that are in the same direction, the defence of the rules-based international trading system continues to be a priority for the international community. It is important that we invest in our relations with our partners, including discussions on the desirability of reforming certain aspects of the current trading system in order to ensure its proper functioning. I even tried to have this discussion with Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross at the OECD ministerial meeting in Paris a few weeks ago. Clearly, the approach is to want to act unilaterally rather than to programme reform from within organizations. For our part, we will continue to work towards reform and reform of organizations in partnership with the international community as a whole. That is true of the WTO. This may be true in other instances. It is clear that the accumulation of unilateral American decisions – I am thinking of the decisions on the Paris Climate Agreement, the JCPoA Agreement with Iran on the nuclear side, the situation in the Middle East, the trade debates we have – indicates that we will have to think, in the European Union probably, about how to reopen a broader dialogue with the United States. I would like to point out that this country is a very important partner of the European Union, from various points of view. This is the case, as has been pointed out recently, in NATO in terms of security, economics and many other areas. However, we are currently experiencing difficulties with the US administration. We must respond to this in a united way within the European Union. That is what we are trying to do, as I have just explained to you, with regard to the trade debates, which will again give rise to this meeting or to this meeting at the end of the month in Washington between the American President and the President of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u57	Minister, thank you very much for this very comprehensive answer. It remains to be hoped that the European Union will speak more and more with one voice, not only in areas as important as the economy or trade relations, but also in the field of defence. Indeed, this is our chance for long-term success.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u58	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the focus on human rights during the economic mission to Uruguay and Argentina. Fortunately, as has been the case since these last missions, human rights have been mentioned during this economic mission, both in bilateral contacts and in the organization of a debate on the subject of human rights. Minister, can you give us a debriefing of your bilateral meetings in Uruguay and Argentina? More specifically, have you addressed the issue of human rights with the authorities of both countries and with the leaders of Belgian and foreign companies, in accordance with the National Business and Human Rights Action Plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u59	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, as you pointed out, it was following the plan that we put in place that I launched this initiative to organise a section on human rights during economic missions. We had already done so in Côte d'Ivoire about the exploitation of children in cocoa plantations, with the participation of local authorities but also Belgian partners who are very present, since you know the importance of the use of cocoa in the manufacture of the best chocolate in the world: Belgian chocolate. During the economic mission to Argentina and Uruguay, the issue of human rights was addressed on several occasions. During my bilateral meeting with my counterpart Minister Faurie, I took care in particular to raise a series of human rights issues: the bill for the decriminalization of abortion recently passed by the lower house of the Argentine Parliament, which still needs to be approved by the Senate. I also invited Argentina to attend the 7th World Congress against the Death Penalty to be held in Belgium at the end of February next year. In addition, the state of human rights in Venezuela and Colombia has also been the subject of our discussions. I would like to add that this has also been the subject of many exchanges at the EU-CELAC meeting which has just been concluded, but in which I have participated both yesterday and today. The situation in Venezuela – but also in Nicaragua, for example – was the subject of many comments. It is always interesting to have regional exchanges on this subject. As you mentioned, one of the actions in our National Business and Human Rights Action Plan is to raise awareness, within the framework of economic missions abroad, of our companies on the question of respect for human rights in the context of their activities, by involving their local partners. During the mission to Argentina, on Tuesday 26 June, we organized a seminar on social dialogue in close collaboration with the local office of the International Labour Organization, the Argentine Ministry of Labour and our SPF Employment, Labour and Social Dialogue. Her Royal Highness Princess Astrid attended the seminar, while my colleague, Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters, the Argentine Minister of Labour Jorge Triaca, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Argentina Daniel Raimondi, and the Director of the ILO office in Buenos Aires, Petro Delivera, each addressed the opening session. These speeches were followed by a tripartite panel in which the FEB, the Union of Manufacturers of the Republic of Argentina and the Secretary for Human Rights of the province of Buenos Aires participated. Some 60 people from our delegation (ministers, civil servants and businessmen) and some 50 outside guests, invited by the ILO, mainly Argentine businessmen and trade unionists, took part in the seminar as well as some local journalists. As you have just mentioned, the awareness of our companies in the defence of human rights is ensured on a recurring basis. I recalled what we achieved in Côte d'Ivoire during a previous mission that had been organized with the International Labour Organization and with UNICEF, the United Nations Children's Fund, also in the presence of Her Royal Highness Princess Astrid and the First Lady of Côte d'Ivoire, Ms. Dominique Ouattara. During the next princely mission to Morocco in November, we intend to organize an event on women's entrepreneurship in close cooperation with the Moroccan authorities. What is particularly interesting in these initiatives, including these seminars, is the contact between the public authorities of the two countries, but also with the international organisations responsible for the sector under discussion and the managers of companies on both sides. This, in my view, is the best way to try to raise awareness of the subject. This sometimes gives rise to the explanation of effective measures to combat the phenomenon mentioned. To cite just one example – I come back from Côte d'Ivoire – compulsory education, especially for girls, has obviously had a direct impact on the development of the use of children in cocoa plantations, if only alongside this use in families, there is still trafficking and the sale of children, especially in cross-border relations. This is another debate that requires much stronger security measures and measures. Developments are discernible in a number of partner countries through this type of discussion. I hope that this will further strengthen these measures and raise the awareness of Belgian and European actors as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answers. As this is my last question, I would like to thank you for our discussions in this committee. It was a pleasure. I've already been able to tell our president. It was really a pleasure to work with you, Mr. President, and with you, Mr. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u61	Thank you. I hope that you will still have the opportunity to deal with international issues in future functions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u62	Mr President, let me also welcome our colleague Mr Crusnière. Mr Minister, at the end of May, the letter specializing in economic intelligence Africa Intelligence announced that you were planning to visit Tripoli on 20 June to meet Libyan Prime Minister Fayez al-Sarraj and discuss with him the problem of the Libyan funds frozen at Euroclear in Belgium, on which I asked you in plenary session on 8 March. In introducing my question, I attached the text of the Africa Intelligence dispatch. I don't want you to read it in English. According to the June 21 edition of the Vif/L'Express, you gave up your trip to Libya, which was organised, according to the weekly, by your advisor Pierre-Emmanuel Brusselmans, following this Africa Intelligence dispatch. According to the same source, the United Nations, concerned by Belgium's compliance with the rules on freezing these funds, sent a delegation of three experts to Brussels in mid-May to investigate this issue. This was confirmed to me last week by the Minister of Finance. Minister, can you tell me if you intended to go to Tripoli on June 20th? Did the adviser I quoted actually have the task of preparing for this trip? Who were you to meet on the spot? On which files and with what intentions? Was the question of the Libyan funds frozen in Belgium on the agenda? With what purpose? Why was this trip cancelled? Can you confirm that a UN delegation has come to Belgium to investigate this matter? With what motivations? Have you or your cabinet been heard by the representatives of the United Nations in this context? What are the results of this investigation? Should this delegation come back to pursue it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u63	Mr Gilkinet, thank you for the interest you seem to have shown in Libya, on which I again had the opportunity to speak with my European colleagues this Monday at the Foreign Affairs Council. It is within the framework of the exercise of my duties and taking into account that Libya is at a pivotal moment in its history, with great challenges at the political, security, humanitarian and migratory levels, that I planned to visit Tripoli on 20 June to learn the most fully about these various issues. In preparation for this mission, meetings had been requested with the Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, his Excellency Mr. Ghassan Salamé, or his deputy, Ms. Ribeiro, as well as with the President of the Government of National Accord (GNA), his Excellency Mr. al-Sarraj, and my counterpart, Minister of Foreign Affairs Siala. A meeting was planned with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the International Organization for Migration and the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. A meeting with European operators, the European delegation and the EU Border Assistance Mission in Libya (EUBAM). A visit to a refugee camp was also planned. The security situation in Libya requires certain precautionary and protective measures, including confidentiality on the date of such displacement. From the moment my arrival was announced in the press, I preferred to cancel my trip. The freezing of Libyan assets in Belgium is the responsibility of the Treasury and the Minister of Finance. This issue was not on the agenda and I did not intend to address it at my meetings. On the other hand, I confirm that on 17 May, our country received three experts from the group established pursuant to United Nations Security Council resolution 1973 in order to support the Libyan sanctions Committee in carrying out its mandate and to collect and analyse information on the implementation of the various resolutions on Libya. As part of its mandate, the Group of Experts regularly visits various Member States of the United Nations, as was the case recently for our country. The visit of these experts follows their own request and relates to the frozen bank accounts in our country, in accordance with the relevant United Nations resolutions and the European regulations that transpose the United Nations provisions into the European legal order. My services brought United Nations experts into contact with the relevant departments of the Ministry of Finance, in particular the Treasury, and facilitated contacts. Our country has answered all the questions of the expert group concerning bank accounts frozen in Belgium. This was done in full transparency, which the Group took note of. The Group's term of office ends on 15 November. The experts are therefore currently working on the drafting of their report. The group also made recommendations to the Security Council Sanctions Committee on Libya. For the rest, I am not aware of the expert group's travel plans or its possible intention to visit us again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic952x.u64	Minister, thank you for this fairly comprehensive answer. I was surprised by the lack of a forecast schedule for your visits and in particular the fact that you were not indicated as unavailable for the House on the date concerned. I take note of the security reasons that you set out and that I can fully respect. You have understood that I was interlocked by this question of Libyan funds frozen in Belgium and partly thawed. This subject deserves Parliament's attention and full transparency with the cooperation of the executive, if necessary to overturn the information published in the press. At this point, I am still hungry, but I will continue to ask questions on the subject to fully understand what has happened with these funds.
