ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u1	Mr President, I am the first to speak, but my question still dates back to August 14, 2017. This means that we have fallen behind a little bit, but it is because of the large number of questions. Minister, I will not elaborate on my question, because it is very technical. More and more companies offer services to us via platforms established in other countries. As a result, the profits recorded in Belgium by these companies are not subject to taxation, resulting in significant tax and budgetary losses for our State - and for the benefit of other countries, including within the European Union. The newspaper Le Soir detailed in July the well-known case of Booking.com, where the mother house earns more than 10 billion euros in turnover, but which pays very little tax in Belgium in terms of its activity, while it generates at least 60%, sometimes even up to 80% of total hotel reservations. This is a significant and significant development. In the Netherlands, Booking.com benefits from a tax niche, which would reduce the tax rate on its so-called "innovative" activities to 5%. This results in a loss of the added value recorded by our hotel sector. It should be noted that Belgium is not the only State to be the victim of this economic development, to which we must adapt. I would therefore like to take stock with you of this issue and of Belgium's position. The OECD has set up a technical advisory group - in which we are represented - on monitoring the existing standards of the conventions for the taxation of business profits in the context of electronic commerce. Several options are discussed. The first is to adopt rules similar to those governing the taxation of certain passive revenues, with the aim of taxing payments in respect of certain forms of electronic commerce at source. As a second option, the group recommends that separate entities be accounted for by a pre-established allocation of the benefits of a common group. This new method is quite similar to the European Union's ACCIS (Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base) project. A third proposal aims to create a "virtual permanent establishment" status. Minister, taking into account the new mandate issued by the G20 to the OECD to provide proposals in terms of digital taxation next April, what will be Belgium's position, both from a political point of view - Belgium being not a member of the G20 - and from the point of view of its technical representatives? Can you detail this position? How do you intend to act to encourage, as quickly as possible, fair taxation of services rendered in Belgium by electronic platforms located in low- and zero-tax countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u2	Mr Gilkinet, the issue of taxation of the digital economy is taken seriously by Belgium and receives the necessary attention from its representatives. Recognizing the growing importance of digital economy issues for our national tax base, we are following with interest the ongoing work and reflections within the OECD. Our Government is proactive in this regard, since, as part of the corporate tax reform, it has been decided to put in place a concept of permanent establishment more in line with economic reality. In 2017, the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union also put the issue of virtual permanent establishment on the agenda of discussions to be held within the framework of the draft CTCB Directive, making the issue of digital taxation one of its priorities. Belgium wishes to follow an ambitious timetable for the taxation of the digital economy. As a result, it supported the Estonian Presidency's approach from the outset. The latter led to the conclusions of the Ecofin Council of 5 December 2017 establishing the growing need to act on this essential issue, both from a fiscal and an economic point of view. These conclusions urge the OECD to find appropriate solutions for the modernisation of the overall tax treaty network, the amendment of the model tax convention and accompanying comments, as well as transfer pricing guidelines, as well as for the allocation of profits to permanent establishments, in order to meet this global challenge. They call on the European Commission to submit an appropriate legislative proposal to the Council by the beginning of this year 2018. Within this framework, the OECD Task Force on the Digital Economy met in December to present the progress in the draft report, which will be submitted to the G20 in April, and to further discuss the directions to be taken by this note. The next Task Force meeting is scheduled for mid-March. The current Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union plans to hold several meetings on the taxation of the digital economy once the European Commission's proposal has been presented. She confirmed this to me again yesterday morning at the Ecofin Council. The search for short- and long-term solutions is an important priority for the Bulgarian Presidency. The taxation of the digital economy will be on the agenda of the informal Ecofin in April 2018, following the presentation of the Commission's proposal and the submission of the interim report of the Task Force on the Digital Economy to the G20.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for taking a full look at the political aspects. You have been less specific about the solutions that will be preferred. However, a solution is needed. The sector in question represents thousands of non-relocable jobs in Belgium. This is a real danger for the financing of our social security, contrary to what I read this morning in De Morgen. Progress is too slow in this area, but I note that an agenda exists. Together with our European Green colleagues, we are waiting for the Commission's proposal on this. I hope that at Ecofin level Belgium will be the driving force behind a solution. We have one advantage: that of not being, by far, the only country concerned by this development and this problem. I hope that you will find allies and regularly inform us of progress. This is a great challenge for 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u4	Minister, this issue dates back to August, but it is of great interest. The federal government would consider selling an additional tranche of its shares in BNP Paribas Bank, according to information published by Le Soir and De Tijd. He gave his green light to the Société fédérale de participations et d'investissement (SFPI) in order to extend the contract concluded with the twelve banks that are taking part in the resale of a new tranche of BNP Paribas. I would like to take stock with you of this issue and the government's position on it. Do you confirm this information for the month of August? What exact mandate was given by the government to SFPI regarding the resale of an additional part of the BNP Paribas shares held by the federal government? Has a minimum amount per share been determined by the government in relation to this sale? What will be the allocation of the proceeds of this sale? Has the federal government also studied the possibility of maintaining a federal presence in BNP Paribas' shareholdership and of seeking a greater influence on the bank's strategic and management choices? Since BNP Paribas is 100% owned by BNP Paribas Fortis, how will Belgium's strategic interests be guaranteed in the event of the resale of these shares?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u5	Mr Gilkinet, we're talking about a publicly traded company. Caution is therefore required not only but also mandatory. The Belgian State has not taken a decision on the merits of the sale of a second tranche of its BNP Paribas shares. On the other hand, the SFPI has taken all measures to respond effectively and quickly to each situation. This reaction seems appropriate to me. The proceeds of this sale will come in debt reduction, as the European rules require, since it is a financial asset.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u6	Minister, the federal state is not listed on the stock exchange! As one of the 150 representatives of all Belgians in this federal parliament, I am responsible for ensuring as much as possible that the right decisions are taken, hence the legitimacy - I hope you feel so - of the question I have put. In terms of strategic issues, I have heard few answers from you. If a good financial operation can possibly be carried out, then we will be in a position to resell BNP Paribas shares and that will come in debt reduction. As for the federal state's ability to influence the bank's price, as to the negative impact on BNP Paribas Fortis of a possible resale, you have no answer. We manage financial assets in a speculative way but not as an entrepreneur who wants to have a positive impact on employment in our country, which I believe should be more of your concern. So that's to follow. Parliament must abide by the laws of the market and secrecy, which I regret.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u7	The next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Winckel's 21229 on the reduced VAT rate of 6% for female hygiene products. However, the authors are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens is suffering. Would you like to postpone his question?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u9	It's already been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u10	Then turn it into a written question?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u11	It'll be done. (...) : (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u12	We can translate both questions into written questions. That's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u13	Mr President, I have just one question. The colleague agreed that I could take the lead.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u14	Okay, no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u15	Mr Minister, Article 145/30 of the WIB provides for a tax reduction for expenditure incurred for the renewal of a property rented out through a social rental office. A thorough renovation of a house with a view to renting it through a social rental office takes a lot of time. Think about the building application, the contractors, starting the works. I speak from experience. It took me two and a half years. Apparently, this tax reduction is, after all, the interpretation I have received in writing from a financial expert from the FPS Finance, Brussels Control Centre 4, which is well known to us in practice only for the expenditure relating to the taxable period in which the taxpayer actually rents the property through the social rental office. In other words, one acquires a property in 2012, one starts the whole resem applications, one starts to remodel the property in September 2012. In this case, a store with above-the-counter residential properties from which apartments are made..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The audit centre's financial expert then says: the deduction may only be made for 2014 and not for expenditure, done in 2012 and 2013. In my humble opinion, this runs counter to the intention of the legislator, in particular to encourage the renovation of housing for the purpose of social rental. I therefore have the following question, Minister. Can the tax relief in Article 145/30 of the WIB be granted only for expenditure relating to the taxable period? This means that if you rent your property in January 2014 and you have done work in 2013, you will not be able to obtain any deductions, as the invoices of the year are before.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u16	Mr Van Mechelen, the poor interpretation you see is the one that is being applied. It's only about what's possible in that year. The most important thing I have to give you is that since 2015, the Regions have been competent to do so. I've had this checked twice myself, but it's true.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u17	It's about the 2015 attack year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u18	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u19	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u20	We come to Mr Vanvelthoven's question on fiscal consolidation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u21	Mr Minister, I asked a number of questions and asked for a number of figures during the discussion of corporate taxation. I can live with it if you give me those figures so that I do not have to ask a number of questions today. These are questions Nos 21721, 21722, 21723, 21724, 22399, 23108 and 23110.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u22	Minister, can you give those answers today? Those questions must be asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u23	For some questions I have the figures, for others I do not. For example, as far as losses are concerned, it will be a while before I have them fully available in table form. As soon as I get the tables, I'll get them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u24	Mr Vanvelthoven, I suggest that you ask the questions anyway and that the Minister responds to the best of his ability.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u25	No problem. I was just trying to get the work moving.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u26	Minister, a few weeks ago I questioned you about certain elements of corporate tax reform. You refused to reply and you stated that the government was finalising the corporate tax reform. You suggested that you give a detailed answer as soon as the government has finished doing so, so one of these days. In the meantime, you have made a note known to the world in which you explain a number of things. The government is ready and I expect an answer to my question today. The company tax reform plan decided to introduce a fiscal consolidation according to Swedish model from 2020. There is no fiscal consolidation in Sweden. There is, however, a system whereby within a group the profits of a company can be transferred to a loss-making company in the group, the sum transferred being deductible from the profitable company and taxable from the receiving company. I would like to hear from you whether Belgium will introduce such a scheme in accordance with the Summer Agreement and in the context of the corporate tax reform. Do you therefore confirm that such a measure is not really a fiscal consolidation? Could you explain something? What is the budgetary assessment of the introduction of such a scheme? Can you explain how the budgetary impact has been estimated? What is the number of companies with a negative result for the last year of assessment available for the taxable period? How many of these companies belong, under the new consolidation regime introduced by the government, to a group eligible for the scheme? If that data is not available, what are the numbers as estimated by the administration or your policy cell? What is the total loss of the companies for the last tax year available? What is the total loss of the companies eligible for the new consolidation scheme? If those amounts are not available, what is the estimate of the amounts according to your administration or your policy cell?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u27	Mr Vanvelthoven, the regime that is being designed in the context of corporate tax reform is indeed in line with the Swedish model. This means that, within certain limits, a group contribution can be made for the benefit of a related company, which allows the latter to offset its loss of the taxable period and only that loss, which is very important, because it is not about other subtractions at those amounts. The term fiscal consolidation is open to all kinds of interpretations, but the fact that it is only about losses and not about other tax deductions is very important in the context. The regime allows groups of companies within a strictly defined framework to reduce profits from the taxable era of a particular Belgian group company by the loss suffered in other entities of the same group. That's the basic principle. At cruising speed, the measure is estimated at EUR 500 million. You will certainly remember from the reading of the National Bank's evaluation of the measures that their budgetary impact has been carefully assessed. As far as the last two blocks of questions are concerned, the figures are currently in tables and are further verified. Where necessary, the necessary estimates shall be added. We will get you those tables as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u28	Minister, I understand that you will provide me with the tables as soon as they are ready, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u29	Mr President, Minister, this too is a repeat of a previous question. You indicated at that time that I would get the answer later. That is why I am asking the question again today. What is the planned budgetary impact of the reform of the negligence and moratorium residues? What amount of moratorium residues did the FPS Finance pay in the years 2014, 2015 and 2016? What amount of negligence was received by the FPS Finance in the years 2014, 2015 and 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u30	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, I have the figures here on paper. I would like to read the answer, but I think I should give it to you in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u31	Mr Minister, I have also asked this question before. I'm resetting them now. First, I would like to hear from you whether the new notional interest deduction will only apply to capital increases from 1 January 2018? Secondly, is there a transitional arrangement? In other words, will the old notional deduction fade out? Or will from 2018 onwards, irrespective of the transfer of the stock to notional-intrest deduction, only notional-intrest deduction will be charged under the new incremental scheme? Thirdly, what, according to the administration, is the budgetary assessment of the reform of the notional income deduction? On the basis of the corporate tax returns for the tax years 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, please provide me with the following information, which are important for further discussion: first, the deduction for risk capital, code 1435; Secondly, the deduction for risk capital transferred from the previous taxable periods, code 1438; third, the balance of the deduction carried over for risk capital, code 1711; fourth, the balance of the deduction for risk capital that is transferable to the next taxable period, code 1712.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u32	Mr Vanvelthoven, I give you the table for 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016. For the codes to which you ask, all the figures have been filled in. As regards the first question, the deduction for risk capital on the existing stock of corporate equity was abolished for the taxable periods starting from 1 January 2018 and, of course, linked to the 2019 tax year. For those same taxable periods, only a deduction of risk capital calculated on the increase in own funds compared to a moving average over five years will now apply. This is to level out all kinds of measures that one can take to manipulate own funds in one direction or another. This is done mathematically by multiplying the positive difference between risk capital at the end of the taxable period and risk capital at the end of the fifth pre-taxable period by 1/5. The cost of this new deduction was estimated at EUR 130 million at cruising speed on the basis of the average change in own funds over the years 2007 to 2014. The estimate is cautious, as the National Bank of Belgium points out, since the increase in own funds may be overestimated, given the higher rate of deduction at that time. For the rest, I'll get you the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u33	Minister, the reform of corporation tax will introduce a so-called minimum tax. The basket that will be deductible on a limited basis in a given year includes, among other things, the losses transferred and the DBI deduction transferred. You have indicated that the losses transferred will remain transferable indefinitely. The same applies to the DBI deduction. Can you give the budgetary estimate for the 2012 to 2016 attack years? I would also like to have some relevant information on the basis of the corporate tax returns. First, the income definitively taxed and exempt movable income, code 1433. Secondly, the costs relating to definitively taxed income and exempt movable income, code 1641. Thirdly, the deduction transferred for definitively taxed income actually deducted from the taxable period, code 1703. Fourth, the balance of the deduction for definitively taxed income that is transferable to the next taxable period, code 1704. Fifth, the previous losses, code 1436. Sixth, the balance of the compensatory previous losses, code 1721. Finally, transfer the loss to the next taxable era, code 1730.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u34	Mr Vanvelthoven, perhaps I will give you the figures first. I have the figures relating to codes 1436, 1721 and 1730 in table form. The figures relating to other codes 1433, 1641, 1703 and 1704 are in the answer to your oral question No. 23110. As far as the other questions are concerned, I can answer the following questions. The basket of transferred deductions included in the corporate tax reform limits annually the possibility of using the deductions included in this basket. On the part of the result exceeding EUR 1 million after applying the investment deduction, the deductions which form part of the basket can only be charged up to a maximum of 70%. The budgetary impact of this measure is estimated at EUR 521 million. Indeed, these subtractions remain transferable indefinitely. This is, for example, the difference with the German system, where at a certain point the subtractions are indeed limited in time. For most of those deductible losses, there is indeed a time limit. This is not the case in our reform. Your question was whether they are transferable indefinitely. The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u36	Debates of the European Parliament Ms Smaers presented 21832 on 10 November 2017 and deals with the European Commission's position on the draft budget plans. It is therefore completely out of line and will cease to exist. Questions Nos 21834, 21835, 21836 and 21837 by Mr Deseyn will be converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Terwingen. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 22218 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u37	Mr President, first of all, let me make it clear that it is always a pleasure to attend a meeting of your committee, even if it is to fill in. Minister, on October 4, 2016, I asked you about the collaboration between the Lafarge group and Daesh to operate its Jalabiya cement factory in northern Syria, when this area was controlled by Islamist state terrorists. These financial flows ceased on September 19, 2014, when the jihadists themselves took possession of the plant. The GBL group, managed by Belgian investor Albert Frère, is a shareholder of 9.4% of what has become today the LafargeHolcim group. Before the merger between Lafarge and Holcim, and at the time of the problem raised, the holding company of our compatriot owned around 20% of the shares of the French cement manufacturer. On 14 November, however, the Federal Police carried out a search at the Brussels headquarters of the GBL group, in its capacity as shareholder of the multinational company. These investigative duties were carried out at the request of a specialized investigating judge on terrorism to investigate suspicions of financing a terrorist group. It is now Justice – with complete independence, of course – and more than just an opposition parliamentarian, who is trying to check whether there is a link between the Belgian company GBL and the financing of terrorism. Minister, as you stated at the time, it is the general administration of the Treasury of the FPS Finances that is the competent national authority responsible for the implementation and application of restrictive financial measures. Since autumn 2016 and my last question, what concrete measures has this administration taken to combat the direct or indirect economic collaboration of Belgian companies with terrorist groups? Indeed, we may as well benefit from our experience in this area. Secondly, does the FPS Finance finally have a list of Belgian or Belgian companies active in Iraq and Syria? Thirdly, at the time, you also told me that the general administration of the Treasury did not have an adequate legal framework to prosecute the acts as analysed in detail by the Belgian Justice. Are you considering an amendment to the legislative framework to improve the fight against the financing of terrorism by companies or shareholders operating from the national territory? Does this, in your opinion, involve an expansion of the tasks of the Financial Information Processing Unit?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u38	Mr Hellings, as mentioned earlier in answer to your questions Nos 12681 and 13067 on the same subject, the General Administration of the Treasury of the FPS Finances is indeed the competent national authority responsible for the implementation and application of restrictive financial measures. With regard to restrictive measures against the Islamic State (Daesh) and Al-Qaeda, Regulation No. 881/2002 of 27 May 2002 adopted by the Council of the European Union pursuant to several United Nations Security Council resolutions prohibits the provision of funds or economic resources, directly or indirectly, to persons and entities associated with the organizations Daesh and Al-Qaeda. In addition to this regulation, there have been other European regulations against Iraq since 2003 and against Syria since 2012. I'm coming to your questions. First, the above-mentioned regulations are directly applicable and do not require further enforcement measures. Secondly, Iraq and Syria are subject to restrictive measures contained in European Regulations 1210/2003 and 36/2012. Apart from these measures, there is no prohibition on Belgian and non-Belgian companies from trading in these regions. There is therefore no legal obligation to identify Belgian or Belgian companies active in Iraq or Syria. Thirdly, as a reminder, an investigation is under way and the investigation in this case is under way. Article 6 of the Act of 13 May 2003 on the implementation of restrictive measures adopted by the Council of the European Union against States, certain persons and entities provides for penalties for the above offences, regulations and decisions. It states: "Without prejudice to the application of more severe penalties, infringements of the measures contained in Community regulations or decisions taken pursuant to those regulations under Articles 60, 301 and 308 of the Treaty establishing the European Community shall be punished by imprisonment for 8 days to 5 years and a fine of 25 to 25 000 euros. The provisions of Book 1 of the Criminal Code, without exception of Chapter VII and Article 85, shall apply to these offences." Article 7 of the Act provides that "without prejudice to the powers of judicial police officers and officials of the Customs and Excise Administration, officials appointed for this purpose by the competent minister shall have the right to seek and find, even on their own, violations of the provisions of this Act". A study is under way for the revision of this legislation in this field different from that of the Financial Information Processing Unit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for this good work in compiling the various legislations applicable in Belgium today. It's precious. I will read carefully what you have quoted because there are a lot of things. It is probably on these laws, regulations and other directives that the prosecution can rely on today to conduct the investigation. Like you, I respect the independence of the judiciary. So we'll see what it will do. What I remember - as you mentioned yourself - is that Regulation No 881 in question says that it is forbidden to make resources available to terrorist groups directly or indirectly. Very clearly here, in the case of the ongoing investigation, resources were indirectly given to Daesh. We are therefore in a kind of blurred area in the application of this regulation since a shareholder – obviously – does not play a direct role in the management of a company. In fact, the company played a role in enriching the terrorist group. What would be interesting, beyond the work – which your administration has done very well – of identifying the implementing legislation in this field, one could imagine, with the cooperation of the Regions, that Finance or Economic Affairs could list the various companies that are active directly or indirectly, via their shareholders, in the areas of conflict in order to be able to improve the control work. Thank you, therefore, for the first step we have taken today. It is much clearer about the applicable legislative framework for managing economic collaborations with terrorist groups. Now, I think that an evolutionary list would be interesting in order to be able to better combat terrorism not only on the ground, as our military have done recently but also, here in Belgium, through economic cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u40	Minister, according to the European Commission's estimates, in 2015 cross-border VAT fraud cost European public funds 152 billion euros, including 3.3 billion euros in Belgium. It is therefore a real threat to public finances. European Commissioner Moscovici recently presented a number of measures to combat this phenomenon, including online information sharing within the Eurofisc Anti-Fraud Expert Network and the setting up of unique anti-fraud audit teams in each country. Minister, do you confirm the cost to Belgium of cross-border VAT fraud? Do you have more recent figures than those of 2015? Can you detail the measures put on the table by Commissioner Moscovici on this subject? What was Belgium's position on these proposals? Are you in favour of setting up a European online information sharing system? What human, IT and budgetary means will be identified in 2018 to implement these recommendations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u41	Mr Gilkinet, the calculation of the VAT gap presented by the European Commission includes all potential VAT losses. This includes organised fraud, classical fraud, irregularities, exemptions from the global base and many other reasons for not paying VAT. This is in summary the difference between the theoretical VAT that should be collected and the VAT actually collected. Cross-border VAT is not isolated in this calculation. As you know, Belgium has been at the forefront of the fight against VAT fraud for more than ten years. In 2016, the loss due to cross-border fraud was reduced to the historical minimum of EUR 14.5 million. This method of evaluation, called bottom-up, is much more precise than the Commission's figures, obtained in the top-down manner. With regard to your second question, the European Commission published in December 2016 proposals to amend the VAT Directive in order to modernise the VAT system currently applicable to sales of remote goods, including those from third countries. This modernisation will also support Member States' efforts to combat VAT fraud. Thanks to the intensive negotiations within the Council, the Estonian Presidency managed to reach a consensus on this proposal, which was adopted at the Ecofin Council on 5 December 2017. In addition, the European Commission published in October last year a new set of proposals to introduce structural changes to the VAT system, in particular with regard to intra-Community sales of goods between taxable persons. The main aim of these proposals is in particular to make the VAT system more resilient to fraud. Mr Gilkinet, I can also add that this topic was briefly discussed yesterday morning at the Ecofin Council. The European Commission has just published a new proposal on 30 November 2017 to modernise, deepen and strengthen administrative cooperation in order to make the fight against fraud more effective. Belgium welcomes the European Commission's efforts to adapt the European VAT regulatory framework both to substantive law and to formal law, in order to make the VAT system more resistant to fraud. I am pleased that the Member States have been able to agree on the Commission's first set of proposals in the field of electronic commerce relating to goods sold to individuals. Negotiations on the other proposals have yet to begin. My services analyze various aspects of the proposals. In any event, I can only welcome the European Commission's attempts to publish proposals that should make the VAT system less vulnerable to fraud. However, the solutions envisaged should not disproportionately increase the administrative burden on operators in good faith. In response to your fourth question, I can say that we are in favour of this project, but on 19 September 2017, the ISI took over the European coordination of the TNA (Transactional Network Analysis), which would achieve these deadlines. Finally, the Commission has allocated a specific budget in the form of an expert team to carry out the project on the ISI side. Six employees, who are part-time employees, will be made available to the project.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u42	Mr Minister, I am surprised at the difference in the assessment of the cost of this VAT gap for public finances, based on techniques and years. Maybe we'll have a chance to get back to it. This must really be a priority. This requires, on the one hand, European coordination – and I mean that things are moving forward in this area – and, on the other hand, it requires efforts at administrative and technical level with regard to intra-Belgian fraud. These are investments that often earn more than they cost to public finances. With the question of VAT on Internet service providers, we have just identified a second budgetary risk for our social security because we know that VAT provides alternative financing for social security. Therefore, could you inform the person who was interviewing De Morgen this morning? Here too, efforts must be made. Don't hesitate to make her a little more aware of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u43	Question No 22218 by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u44	Mr President, the subject is relevant because we have found that, in particular, Panama was not included in the list of tax havens adopted yesterday or the day before yesterday at European level. You know that this is a key element missing in our legislative and regulatory arsenal. In the absence of a Belgian list of tax havens, our control services are severely handicapped in their activities. I have already asked you several questions on the subject. Each time, you have fallen behind a European initiative to be taken in this area. But the list announced at the beginning of December, which was finally adopted, is particularly disappointing in relation to our expectations, to the expectations of the Panama Papers Committee, to the expectations of the NGOs concerned with the issue of tax justice - I am thinking here of Oxfam, who spoke on the subject - and even to those of the European Commissioner, Pierre Moscovici. Indeed, Panama is not included, as are other well-known tax havens, not to mention the European states that have problematic practices. At the time, there was also talk about the development of a list of countries in the grey zone, with which trade relations would not be prohibited but would be more monitored and made transparent. It's a go-to, but "fault of thrushes, we eat hake." Minister, what position has Belgium taken in this negotiation? Clearly, were you in favour of Panama being included in this list or not? Which countries have you proposed to be included in the list of tax havens? On what basis? Was Belgium in favour of setting up a list of countries in the grey zone and with what specific commitments for them? What is the list of tax havens in fine? Can you formalize it? Are you satisfied with the content of this list? What are the short-term consequences for the commercial relations of Belgian companies with companies located in these tax havens? Will you implement the Panama Papers Commission's recommendations on this issue? What is the later stage of negotiation to ensure that the list of tax havens is final and legally enforceable?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u45	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Messrs. Gilkinet and Vanvelthoven were waiting for me, because I was in the Infrastructure Committee dealing with road safety and enhanced control measures. Minister, the European Finance Ministers met on Tuesday 5 December to establish the definitive list of tax havens common to the European Union. It includes 17 countries: Bahrain, Barbados, Grenada, Marshall Islands, Guam, Macao, Mongolia, Namibia, Palau, Panama, Samoa, Saint Lucia, Trinidad, Tobago, South Korea, Tunisia and the United Arab Emirates. Most of them are confetti of past empires. The Commission hopes that, beyond the publication of the definitive blacklist, a grey list of Member States which are not in the nails but which undertake to change their legislation in the coming year will be made public. Minister, what were Belgium's specific requests for one or the other of the tax havens on this list? Did you have any other country proposals to defend with your EU finance ministers? In your opinion, will this list be a good tool for effectively combating extra-European tax fraud? What are the sanctions mentioned by you and your European Finance Ministers against these different countries that facilitate large-scale tax fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u46	Mr Minister, this is actually about two lists. On 5 December 2017, the European blacklist of tax havens was published. This list included only 17 countries, including some which are difficult to identify as tax havens because they are not used in this sense. We are talking about countries such as Mongolia, Tunisia and Namibia. Many countries that are used as tax havens are not on the list. It's about the Cayman Islands or the British Channel Islands. Meanwhile, a number of countries have been removed from the list, such as Panama. I have the impression that the blacklist is draining faster than it was created. There is also a Belgian list of tax havens. Following the PanamaLeaks, you announced in April 2016 that this list of tax havens would be extended. On 30 June 2016, the Court adopted the Programme Act which amended, inter alia, the provisions on the obligation to report payments to tax havens. Pursuant to Article 307, § 1 of our Income Tax Code, taxable persons are required to declare all payments made directly or indirectly to persons established in a tax haven. In concrete terms, it concerns the States listed in Article 179 of the Royal Decree implementing the Income Tax Code. Following that amendment, the list of tax havens should therefore be adjusted by means of a royal decree agreed by the Council of Ministers. Today, a year and a half later, that KB is still not there. I've questioned you about that before. You have always said that you are waiting for the European list. Well, there is now and it gets shorter every day. I believe that I have already made it clear that I am in favour of Belgium maintaining its own definition and supplementing it, where necessary, with the criteria of the European Commission, and that now that the European list has been clarified, the Belgian list can finally be adjusted by means of a KB, which is discussed in the Council of Ministers. Mr Minister, I had tabled a number of questions on this subject, but I would like to add a number of questions with the communication we had yesterday. How will you bring the Belgian list of tax havens into line with the European list? In what way will you bring the Belgian list in line with Article 307, § 1 of the WIB? Will you amend Belgian legislation in line with the European list and in what way? I understand from your communication yesterday that you at least insinuated that it is the Commission that took Panama and the other countries off the blacklist. It is the Ecofin Council that has decided that. In other words, you have made your own decision. Can you formally confirm to us today that you decided this together with the other ministers and that this was not a decision of the Commission? Following the disappearance of a number of countries on the blacklist of tax havens, was the Belgian Government contacted by Panama or one of the other countries which have now been taken off the blacklist? I understand that European Commissioner Moscovici has also called for full transparency on why the finance ministers in the Ecofin Council decided to take some countries off the blacklist. I would also like to repeat the European Commissioner's appeal in this House today and ask if there have been any contacts. What arguments have they put forward to justify the removal of the list? Mr Minister, I would also like to ask a few questions about your communication yesterday. You have the opportunity to update that communication, if necessary. From your communication, it seems that you want to continue to regard Panama as a tax haven. You say that Belgium has stricter criteria than Europe. I would like to hear from you whether or not Panama is a tax haven. Will you or will you not amend the royal decree? I just asked that question. In fact, we in Parliament decided a year and a half ago that the royal decree had to be amended.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u47	Mrs Smaers is not here because she is on the Committee on Business.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u48	Mr Gilkinet, Mr Flahaux and Mr Vanvelthoven, Belgium participated in the process of drawing up an effective and objective list of non-cooperative courts and took a constructive approach to that end. In this case, our country has not taken a position in favour of either particular jurisdiction, with regard to the adoption of effective and useful criteria to promote a sound international tax environment. This list has the merit of existing and promoting more tax transparency as well as measures to combat the erosion of tax bases. The commitments made by many jurisdictions on the grey list, to comply with the established criteria, demonstrate the success of this undertaking. This list shall include those States which do not meet at least one of the criteria laid down by the Member States but which have committed themselves at the highest level to resolve, as soon as possible, the problems identified during the screening procedure. For reasons of transparency, Belgium supported the publication of the grey list. The commitments made by many jurisdictions to meet the established criteria demonstrate the success of the exercise. However, the effectiveness of this instrument will also depend on the possible additional measures taken by the Member States. At present, there is only an agreement at EU level to apply mandatory administrative sanctions. Legal sanctions are not yet mandatory and the discussion on additional measures will continue in the course of 2018. Measures may include, for example, the non-deductibility of the payment of the listed jurisdictions, the introduction of withholding taxes and the like. Belgium will support the application of additional measures in a mandatory and coordinated manner between EU Member States. I have made several clear interventions on this subject in the Ecofin Treaties of the past. Stricter measures may also be imposed individually by Member States. That is exactly what Belgium has done and will continue to do. On 5 December 2017, the Ecofin Council decided to blacklist 17 countries. More importantly, however, it was also decided at that time to place 47 countries on a grey list. These countries are also eligible to be blacklisted, but have indicated their intention of entering into a serious dialogue with the European Union. In the meantime, 8 countries initially included on the blacklist have indicated their willingness to enter into dialogue with Europe, which will also be included in the greylist. The countries on the grey list, the so-called watchlist, are expected to indicate in the foreseeable future whether they are actually prepared to implement reforms. If this is not the case, they will still be blacklisted. However, I would just like to emphasise that there is a strong consensus within the Ecofin Council that the final objective is to encourage as many countries as possible to establish a tax system that is acceptable and that in the long term the draining of the blacklist is a good thing if it is done on the basis of well-defined criteria and the conditions laid down are met. As this has become unclear in the media, I would like to make it clear that de facto the finished blacklist will not be available until the course of this year. That discussion has not been concluded. In conclusion, I would like to make my point of view on this point. Firstly, I have always argued, and I will continue to do so, for a uniform European list, for obvious reasons, so that tax havens are treated uniformly by all EU Member States. Another approach is too easy for the remaining tax havens. Secondly, the steps taken by the Ecofin Council are moving in the right direction, but they are not going fast enough for me and not far enough for me. I have repeatedly called for it to be linked not only to the publication of the blacklist but also to effective sanctions. I have just listed some possible sanctions. Thirdly, the EU list will only be finalised in the course of 2018. Hence the shift we are now seeing. During the year, we will probably see further shifts, based on the ongoing dialogue between the entities concerned and the European authorities. Fourthly, until then, Belgium will continue to work with the stricter Belgian list, with the criteria attached to it. Taking over the current EU provisional list again would weaken that fact. I hope everyone agrees with me that this would not be a good idea. Once the EU list is final, action will also be taken at Belgian level. Fifthly, as far as the role of the European Commission is concerned, the expert group that makes the assessment of the countries on the watchlist is coordinated by the European Commission. The Commission is represented in each of the expert groups that analyse the commitments of the countries concerned. It is also the Commission that explains these commitments in the technical working groups. Ultimately, on the basis of this report, the Ecofin Council will take a decision. That decision doesn't come from the air vacuum, it comes from the channel I just described. I would also like to give a brief explanation of the public or non-public nature of these discussions leading to engagements with the relevant entities, such as tax havens. Indeed, they will not be made public. This is the result of the process approved by all 28 Member States and the European Commission. So I am certainly not going to violate those agreements, and although I am strongly in favour of transparency, it is not clear, for diplomatic reasons and for the sake of the agreements just mentioned, that this information should be made public without consent. As far as the countries I would have met are concerned, I have indeed met with representatives of Panama. If I remember correctly, that was when they were also in Parliament. That was on the same day, either the next day or before. For the rest, one of the countries in this configuration, in particular the United Arab Emirates, tried to make an appointment, but I did not do so for reasons of principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u49	Minister, we will have to come back to this issue in order to measure all the implications for Belgium. You're saying we're waiting to work with our own list. But, as far as I know, there is no list. Nor do we know what is happening with the application of the grey list from the Belgian point of view: is there any particular control, pending a final decision, over trade with the countries on the list? Have your services for the control of economic exchanges with tax havens in the Tax Paradis Unit been strengthened? It is not because you declare that this work has been a success, that it is a success. States have the responsibility for the current functioning of Europe. By waiting for a unanimous agreement, we are not acting and each state is afraid to be too effective in the fight against tax havens and to run away from investors, but from investors who do not pay taxes. Again, the less honest are getting away with it. I do not share your optimism and your satisfaction. I would like to denounce the fact that Panama, despite the work of the press, which has highlighted its active role in the field of tax fraud, is not included in the current list and nothing but this shows that the results are not sufficient and satisfactory at this stage. We will have the opportunity to discuss it again: tax evasion from a tax haven is a third way to save money for our social security and public finances. You can report it to this person who spoke this morning in De Morgen, announcing that the danger for the future is those people who, at the risk of their lives, cross the Mediterranean, simply to find conditions of survival at home. I found this opinion absolutely lamentable and disturbing!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u50	Minister, thank you for your long and thorough answer, which shows that nothing in life is ever completely white or black. We are moving gradually - and I find it quite comforting - towards a situation where tax havens are going more and more into the wall. But it is not by chance that tax havens are most often micro-states joined to or under the influence of a great power. Macao is actually a Chinese territory, American Samoa or the Marshall Islands are, in fact, dependent States of the United States. It's no coincidence that there are tax havens there. It is therefore also through dialogue with the powers that control these micro-states in practice that the solution will be approached more and more. I think that this meeting of European ministers is a good thing, even if we can sting and say that this is not going fast enough or far enough. I prefer that rather than situations where one or the other of the states provokes a clash and refuses to move forward more firmly. In this sense, I am already satisfied with this development.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u51	Minister, I would like to give you three further reservations. Firstly, there should be transparency in relation to international taxation, which was also advocated in the Panama Commission. I therefore find the European decision not to introduce transparency in this area for the time being disappointing. It seems that neither the European Members nor the Belgian Members of Parliament should know what commitments have led to the enlargement of the grey list and the transfer of blacklist countries to the grey list. I really don't understand that. Apparently, things have to be bespoke in back rooms. I can only appeal to you, and we shall do so in another forum in order to call from Belgium for transparency, because it seems that everything is being regulated among ourselves. That's not good, after all the last leaks. Secondly, I refer to the Panama crisis. I did an aliquot on it a little while ago. In April 2016, you said in a first strong response that the list of tax havens would be extended. Until today, you have not extended that list. Then you did nothing with it for a year and a half, declaring that you were waiting for Europe. Today, and rightly so, you stress that you will not adapt the list to the European list, because that would weaken it. I follow you in that, but you should have kept your word from then on. Especially today, when Europe is still weakening the list and there are fewer countries on it than on our list, our list, Mr Gilkinet, would say that there is no list, but it does exist in accordance with the recommendation of the Panama Commission. Thirdly, what concerns me even more is that the circular on the international standard on transparency and exchange of information for tax purposes of October Panama and Guatemala has dismissed the obligation to declare. In other words, you have imposed the obligation to make a declaration on Panama for a limited period, namely until 21 June 2017. For other countries, such as the Marshall Islands, the obligation still applies. However, the obligation to declare is intended to know whether or not payments have been made to Panama. In other words, you say all kinds of things, but with the circular you did the same before Europe took Panama from the black list to the grey list. That is certainly vengeful at a time when we are all asking for a thorough approach to international tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u52	Minister, at the end of November, the Z Backscatter Van was introduced, a van incorporating an aircraft capable of scanning an aircraft in about ten minutes. This is a new tool for customs officers to combat phenomena such as drug trafficking or counterfeiting. It is planned to work mainly on the tarmac of the Zaventem National Airport, however, it is intended to be used on an ad hoc basis at other regional airports. At a time when fraud and trafficking are estimated to be $1 trillion in the next five years, it is pleased to see that our country is working together to combat this phenomenon and to keep pace with technological developments. However, in the face of ever-increasing air traffic, only one scanner appears to be low and it is expected that a very small percentage of the aircraft will be controlled. Minister, are further acquisitions of this type already planned for the future? If not, can this change depending on the results that will be provided by this first scanner? In this regard, have you estimated an amount to be reached – in terms of fraud avoided – through this system? How will the controls be organised in practice? Will they be random or will specific aircraft be controlled? I imagine that we will control planes from countries linked to drug trafficking, even if we know that drugs often arrive through the port of Antwerp.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u53	Mr Flahaux, with regard to your first question, the General Administration of Customs and Excise has two Z Backscatter Vans, acquired with the financial support of OLAF (European Anti-Fraud Office). Each aircraft is engaged in the fight against smuggling and terrorism from its official location, namely the port of Antwerp and the Brussels airport. The purchase of a third device of this type is not yet planned but is possible, depending on the needs and results of the current devices. By engaging these devices and other scanners, the administration's priority is to make controls more effective by minimizing costs and time lost, which is also beneficial to our economic operations. Scanning with the Z Backscatter Van is done according to strict procedure. Once the passengers and crew have left the aircraft in question, the scanner travels around the aircraft at the pace of the step. The scanning of images is analyzed in real time in the van itself. If, during the analysis, a suspicious object is detected, the location concerned is scanned again. When the anomaly is confirmed, the aircraft is checked from the inside. The selection of objects to be scanned is based mainly on a risk analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u54	Mr. Minister, I am particularly pleased with your answer as you are telling me that there is not only one aircraft, but two. I was referring to drug trafficking in the port of Antwerp, and this place is also equipped with this new van.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u55	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Klaps' 22750 will be answered next week by the Minister for the Budget, Mrs Wilmès.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u56	Mr President, thank you for your flexibility. On behalf of Minister Van Overtveldt, I had to defend the additional supplementary pension for self-employed entrepreneurs in the Committee for Business. That's why I couldn't be here in time. Minister, I have a question about something that few people still know exists, namely the state vouchers. We cannot really call the last closed issue of the voucher a success: 136 private investors signed in, resulting in the lowest return ever. The issue of state bonds is not stopped because a restart would be too expensive, according to Jean Deboutte. The fixed costs would be nothing twice, I quote a press article. That press article kind of triggered me, didn't it? How much are the fixed costs per issue? What would be the cost of temporary cessation? I can understand that we do not want to completely abolish this instrument, and in the event of a revival of interest rates it may become interesting. Is a suspension possible, so that a restart can happen that is less expensive than a full restart?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u57	Mr President, Mr Klaps, the fixed costs of issuing a state voucher are indeed very limited. For the issue of 4 December 2017, the cost was EUR 5 925, or 0.21 % of the amount collected. The staff of the Belgian Debt Agency also spent about 20 hours on this issue. As such, a temporary cessation would not entail any costs. It does require additional communication, but actually nothing else. By the way, on 4 September 2016, the issue of the State guarantee was suspended once already. Afterwards, in December 2016, the State voucher was re-issued, without any specific problems or additional costs. A temporary suspension for a longer period of time, for example for more than one year, is more complicated because efforts to resume the launch, such as the re-opening of distribution contracts with the setting institutions, will be greater and especially because it may take a long time for the product, even if it offers attractive conditions at that time, to find its way back to the interested savers. It is in the context of the foregoing that you must interpret the comments of the, otherwise excellent, Director of the Federal Debt Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u58	Mr President, Minister, the Agency is indeed doing a wonderful job, as has been shown several times in recent years. At the moment, our sovereign debt is very easy to finance and under very favourable conditions. This of course means that the voucher is not currently of interest to investors because few people are willing to block their money at such rates for a longer period of time. So it's the question of the chicken or the egg. If we suspend the receipt any longer, it must be made public again. However, if the voucher is not sold for years because it is not interesting, you will also have to make it public again. An opportunity weighing up is therefore possible at times. In particular, is it still worth doing the issue of such a voucher on a temporary basis? A halt and a withdrawal, once the interest rates are interesting again, would not be more difficult than is the case in the present case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u59	Minister, an activity report is regularly drawn up in the customs administration. I would like to hear from you the amount of import duties and VAT fixed in 2015 and 2016 by the investigation services and the verification services respectively in the first and second lines, on the one hand, and actually received, on the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u60	Mr Vanvelthoven, I have a table of the two major items, namely VAT on imports and import duties and anti-dumping duties. As a general remark, I would like to say that over the years there are indeed very wild variations between the amounts to be recovered and collected. That has to do with several things. I'll give you the two main ones. Firstly, recovery is often contested from the moment a recovery is initiated. That can be about some big things, which, of course, has an immediate impact on what remains for the time being. Secondly, it is, of course, also a rolling sum. For example, the revenue for 2015 and 2016 in the figures I give you will be adjusted next year, because there will of course be additional collections in the course of this year that deal with matters that date from previous years. The figures you requested are in the table, which is available.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u61	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u62	Mr President, Minister, several families are trying to anchor the ownership of their family company for future generations. Some families, often with their roots outside Belgium, have done so by using a discretionary trust. In concrete terms, the trust can then hold the shares of the family company, so that those shares cannot be disposed of by the family members and the family anchor is realised. Assuming that such a family company is a normally taxed company established in the European Union, it is not qualified as a legal arrangement based on Article 2, 13°, first paragraph, (b) of the WIB. The trust is based on Article 2, 13°, first paragraph, (a) of the WIB. According to the proposed text of Article 18, paragraph 1, 3°, payments other than repayments of paid-up capital and issuing premiums on the basis of a regular decision of the general meeting shall be regarded as dividends in principle by such a legal arrangement. The draft law adopted also adapts Article 18 by excluding repayment of paid-up capital and issuing premiums only in part in accordance with the ratio between capital and reserves. In addition, the draft law amends Article 21, paragraph 1, paragraph 12°, which provides that income granted or payable by a legal arrangement shall not be regarded as dividends to the extent that it is shown that such income is composed of income from the legal arrangement which has already been subject to their tax regime under a natural person. If the shares of the aforementioned family company were not held by a trust but directly by natural persons, a regular repayment of paid-up capital or issuing premiums based on the above articles would be at least partially exempt from tax. If the same shares are held by a trust and the trust pays the sums repaid in full to the beneficiary of the trust, it should not make a difference, in order to ensure equal treatment, in the assumption that the trust does not hold any further reserves. These benefits should therefore also be at least partially exempt from tax in the hands of the beneficiary or the founder. Mr Minister, can you confirm that such a payment of repayments of paid-up capital or issuing premiums by a trust is exempt from taxes according to the same rules as when the shares are held directly by a natural person? In particular, can you confirm that Article 18, first paragraph, 3° must be read as meaning that the introductory phrase "benefits other than those referred to in" means that payments of regular repayments of paid-up capital or issuing premiums received by the trust are at least partially excluded or that such redemptions of paid-up capital or issuing premiums should be considered at least partially as income which has been subject to their tax regime in respect of a natural person?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u63	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, as I said when discussing the programme law in the Finance Committee, the repayment of paid-up capital by a company to a trust holding the shares of that company is deemed to have been received directly by the natural persons who in turn created the trust. A repayment of paid-up capital received by a natural person shall, in principle, be exempt from tax to the extent that the repayment of the paid-up capital in accordance with the new second paragraph of Article 18 WIB 92 is proportional to the total paid-up capital, the equivalent issue premiums and the amounts subscribed on the occasion of the issue of profit certificates. If the trust, the existence of which was duly indicated, then effectively pays out this income, there is in principle no longer any tax due, because the income was already subject to taxes in Belgium as a result of a natural person. The precise outcome obviously depends on the specific circumstances, specific to each specific case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u64	Mr President, that is the answer I was hoping for, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u65	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Capoen's 22519 has been postponed. Then we come to agenda item 39, which is Amendments Nos 22556 by Mrs Galant and 22660 by Mr Janssen. Mr Janssen has just informed me that he was in contact with Mrs Galant and that both of their questions will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u66	Mr President, Minister, we are witnessing the emergence of the bitcoin, a simple computer code considered to be a digital currency. This payment system is quite controversial and gives rise to many reactions. This cryptographic currency, which is increasingly used in the world, is based on a technology that would create transaction databases that are impossible to falsify. However, such cryptocurrency also serves as a means of barter that sometimes escapes the legal financial system. There have already been abuses, in particular in terms of secret transactions, the sale of drugs or money laundering. There are already platforms where the bitcoin can be exchanged for real currencies (euro, dollar or other). Minister, what is the state of the bitcoin issue in Belgium? Are there platforms in our country or through our country? Where are they located? In the face of the potential dangers that this cryptocurrency represents and given the need to preserve government money, are any measures planned within your administration?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u67	Mrs Jadin, no cryptographic exchange platform is established in Belgium. Consequently, Belgian citizens wishing to buy or sell them can only do so through platforms established abroad. Nevertheless, in Belgium there are four unregulated distributors of bitcoins, located in Antwerp, Ghent, Hasselt and Brussels. They allow people who have created an e-portfolio abroad to convert euros into bitcoins and transfer them directly to their portfolio. In view of the risks associated with cryptographic currencies, the supervisory authorities of the financial sector closely monitor the development of these currencies, participating in discussions on this subject at European level. In this context, the National Bank of Belgium (NBB) and the Autorité des services et des marchés financiers (FSMA) issued joint warnings in 2014 and 2015 to draw the attention of financial consumers to the risks associated with cryptographic currencies. They state that these currencies do not constitute a legal means of payment or a form of electronic money. They also point out that there is no financial control or monitoring of virtual money and recommend that consumers be more cautious. Since 2014, FSMA has banned the marketing of financial products whose return depends directly or indirectly on a virtual currency. In view of the increasing attention paid to the so-called OneCoin virtual currency, in July 2016, FSMA reiterated its warning regarding virtual currencies. In order to provide a legal framework for those who nevertheless wish to make use of cryptographic currencies, I asked the BNB and FSMA to analyse the possibility of creating a regulatory status for cryptographic exchange platforms, as well as for intermediaries, including those operating distributors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u68	Minister, thank you. I am far from being a regulatory expert in international financial markets. I can only inform myself very modestly. I understand that close monitoring exists and that regulation, in terms of use, could be a followed track to stop possible drifts due to this virtual currency. These are important elements. I can only encourage your efforts, as well as those of your European colleagues and your administration, the FSMA or the BNB, to try to regulate what is clearly beyond control. This is a worrying phenomenon among others. Thank you for taking a very close look at this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u69	Mr Minister, in a special report on import procedures, the European Court of Auditors notes that goods imported into the European Union from third countries, such as China or the United States, are not sufficiently controlled when they cross the customs of the host country. Indeed, it is not uncommon, when a so-called "laxist" country is moved to customs, for sellers to declare a price lower than the price paid by the buyer. Thus, customs duties and VAT on these products are not sufficiently collected and, once released, these products are sent to another European country. The loss of profits is ultimately reflected in the European budget, which is borne by all Member States. In Belgium, for example, the Belgian customs authorities have repeatedly noted that goods purchased at certain Chinese sites, such as Alibaba and Aliexpress, are systematically declared at a value of less than EUR 22 when they enter our home, whereas they are paid at a higher price by the buyer. According to the Court of Auditors, the control rules are inadequate because they were developed at a time when electronic commerce, this new phenomenon due to the progressive digitalisation of our society, was very little developed, which is no longer the case nowadays. Minister, do you agree with the Court of Auditors? Which European countries are the most lax in terms of customs control? How does the follow-up of imported goods take place? What is the state of play in European discussions on this subject? For example, is a reform of the European customs system envisaged to better align with the current economic realities of the digital revolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u70	Mrs Jadin, the volume of Internet purchases has indeed exploded in recent years. Customs checks by probe that the value of the declared goods corresponds well to what has been paid. This is a task that takes a long time because customs must, for each individual shipment, demand proof of payment from the buyer. As far as your second question is concerned, the points of entry into the European Union of express mail firms are located in different Member States of the Union. Postal services in the European Union, like bposts at home, receive thousands of postal items a day. There is no intra-EU agreement in the way the checks are carried out. This issue will be submitted to the European Union and the World Customs Organization, where consultation on this issue was launched, in particular at the seminar on e-commerce in China held in February last year. At the level of VAT, the European Union adopted a new directive last December aimed at abolishing the 22 euro VAT exemption on small consignments from 1 January 2021. The abolition of the VAT exemption makes the undervaluation of the value of goods purchased when imported less attractive. The buyer will, in fact, always have to pay VAT on the importation of his goods. At the customs level, import duty relief of up to EUR 150 remains unchanged for the time being. A working group called "Customs 2020 Project Group on import and export customers formalities related to low value records" is working on this subject in order to adapt European customs policy to this type of trade.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u71	Mrs Jadin, as I understand it, you had a whole series of questions about the deductibility of hybrid vehicles, which we believe are part of the discussion on corporate tax reform. You wish, not to remove them, but to transform them into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u72	If possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u73	That will be the case. Question No 22601 by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u74	Minister, living in a border region, I am confronted daily with cars registered abroad. In my case, these are, in particular, some registration plates, often German and Luxembourgish. Although they may be corporate cars, there are also a lot of fraudsters among the holders of these foreign plates. As you know, the introduction of a vehicle is much more advantageous in Germany than in the Walloon Region. As a result, some are trying to gain a financial benefit. The flagship procedure has been reported on several occasions: the fraudster obtains a false employment contract via a family member working in Germany, whereas in reality the person concerned works in our country. Controls by the police and the Walloon Region do not result in much, as the individual has an alleged document, issued by the employer and unofficial, attesting that he is working in Germany. This practice, which still concerns a lot of vehicles, could be thwarted by controlling the social security certificate (or its copy) of the driver. It is an official document which the German authorities issue to each worker and which cannot therefore be falsified or shared by third parties. I'm wondering if I'm asking the right minister my question, but I'm still going on. No, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u75	No. It is a regional responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u76	But it concerns cases of fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u77	I'll answer you anyway?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u78	Please.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u79	Did you ask question 22610?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u80	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u81	The answer is very simple. Since 1 January 2014, the Walloon Region has taken over the total management of vehicle taxation from the FPS Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u82	For the answer to your question, please refer to the Walloon Region. That's the answer. That is all we can expect from the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u83	Mr President, I noticed when I asked the question. I apologize for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u84	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 22616 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u85	Mr President, Minister, in a judgment of 17 November, the Court of Cassation decided that, in the application of the law on gambling, the confiscation of illegal financial advantages is in addition to the confiscation of the equipment. In the event of a conviction, those in the sector who have operated a game of chance without a licence issued by the gambling commission will be confiscated not only the illegal material but also the property benefits arising directly from the infringement. Minister, how many such offences have been identified in Belgium? Do you have any numbers? Is it possible to quantify the potential cost to the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u86	Mrs Jadin, I am always very happy to see you present in committee, but unfortunately my answer will be rather evasive because the gambling committee is competent to grant the different types of licences. The control function belongs to the Game of Chance Commission, which depends on the FPS Justice. Your question should therefore be addressed to my colleague, Mr Geens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u87	Question No 22690 by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux is transformed into a written question. Question No 22742 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin was withdrawn. Joined Questions No 22746 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and No 22868 by Mr Raf Terwingen are postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Klaps' 22750 should be put to the Minister for the Budget, which will happen next Wednesday morning when the Minister for the Budget comes to committee. Debates of the European Parliament 22782 by Mrs Smaers has been postponed. After all, Mrs Smaers attends the Committee on Business. So her question has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 22783 by Mrs Smaers was answered last week. There was a question from Mr Dispa and Mrs Smaers on the reform of VAT rates. The Minister replied to those questions at the plenary session of 18 January 2018. The question therefore lapses because it has already been answered. Questions Nos 22834 and 22835 by Mr Van Biesen have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u88	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, the federal mediator has developed a 15-point transparent reading grid of standards that his services use to assess complaints submitted to him. These are the standards of good conduct derived from the principles of good administration. This document is dated 6 July 2011. The Complaints Management Department of the FPS Finance, for example, has posted on its website that, as a public service, the FPS Finance attaches great importance to the quality of its service delivery. His ambition is to constantly improve his way of working. The standards of good conduct of the Federal Ombudsman were taken up as such by the Complaints Management Department of the FPS Finances under the term "Finance FPS Standards of Good Conduct". Thus, your administration itself considers, in keeping with the indications of the Federal Ombudsman, that its officials must comply with fifteen standards of good conduct. These standards are the proper application of the rules of law, equality, impartiality, reasonableness and proportionality, legal certainty, legitimate expectations, the right to be heard, reasonable time, conscientious management, effective coordination, adequate motivation, active information, etc. Apparently, this part of the Complaints Management site has disappeared. Minister, is that correct? If so, why this withdrawal? Should we be concerned that these values are no longer the top priorities of this department?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u89	Mr Piedboeuf, I assure you that the content of the Complaints Management website has not changed. The standards of good conduct do appear on the intranet page of the service. The standards of good conduct, a translation of the principles of good administration, are thus available to all employees of the Finance FPS. These standards must, of course, be put into practice. As for the citizen, he can find this information on the web page of the Federal Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u90	Minister, I am reassured. I'll go to the Federal Ombudsman's page.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u91	Mr President, Minister, we know the favourable tax system for seniority premiums. In this regard, it is often mentioned that such premiums are granted up to twice during the course of the worker's career with the same employer. Since there is no explicit provision in the Income Tax Code regulating the exemption which can be obtained in this context, I assume that your administration is based on Article 38, § 1, paragraph 11, 11°, (b) of the IARC 1992 which considers as social benefits - non-taxable in respect of the beneficiary and non-deductible in respect of the person granting them - benefits which, although customizable, do not have the character of a genuine remuneration. If that is the case, can you confirm that the exemption scheme also applies to benefits which are obtained by the directors of a company - and their successors - and whose remuneration is referred to in Article 30, 2° of the CIR 1992, provided that Article 11 of the Code refers to benefits obtained by persons who receive or have received remuneration referred to in Article 30, 1° and 2°, as well as by their successors?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u92	Mr Piedboeuf, ONSS accepts that a seniority premium which meets certain conditions and which is granted in cash, in the form of a gift or payment vouchers, may be exempt from social security contributions. This is therefore an exemption from social security contributions applicable to employed persons. With a view to establishing a parallelism in the application of social and fiscal legislation with regard to seniority premiums, this ONSS Directive is applied as follows in tax terms. The seniority premium which meets these conditions shall be regarded as an exempt social benefit in respect of the worker. This seniority premium, which is exempt as a social benefit in the worker's head, is not deductible as a professional expense in the employer's head. This tax system is the subject of an administrative circular dated 2011. This applies to all workers subject to the ONSS. Therefore, there is nothing to prevent this tax system from applying to a company manager, provided that the seniority premium is granted to him in the course of a worker's activity under an employment contract subject to the ONSS.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u93	Minister, thank you. This is a very useful clarification and will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u94	Minister, if it is a good war, in a dispute between a taxpayer or a taxable person and the tax administration, that everyone invokes the case law which is favourable to him or her in support of the thesis which he or she defends, it seems dishonest intellectually and contrary to the principles of good administration that the administration sometimes supports his or her claims by citing judgments of first instance that have been reformed on appeal. Invoking court decisions that have been nullified loses all credibility, especially before the judge, to administrative action. It is worth recalling that, in the context of the administration of justice, when a court of first instance renders a judgment, the latter may be appealed before an appellate court, which has the power to set aside the first judgment and adopt a judgment which replaces it. A reformed judgement has therefore been nullified. He doesn't exist anymore. As long as the administration is a party to the cause of all judicial decisions in the field of taxation, it has all of them. Minister, is there a comprehensive bank or database of all these decisions? Do public servants have access to it? Are they being instructed to inquire beforehand about the fact that the case law they cite in their writings is still valid?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u95	Mr Piedboeuf, all administrative and judicial remedies are managed within the administration by means of a computer tool, which chronologically reproduces, for each case, all the documents relating to the pending and/or closed litigation proceedings. This electronic file shall include, in particular, interlocutory and final judgements rendered, as well as appeals against judgements, as soon as they have been lodged, and the judgment relating to them, as soon as they have been delivered. All staff members who have the management of this administrative and judicial remedy within their jurisdiction have access, in consultation, to all the files contained therein. It is the duty of the staff member responsible for deciding on a complaint or defending a judicial remedy to invoke the most relevant case law at the time when he or she makes his or her decision or causes a finding to be made. Any review of the judgment or judgment relied upon may take place only much later. It may also result from a procedural defect which does not call into question the relevance of the substantive argument adopted by the first judge. There is no specific instruction in this regard. Under the Income Tax Code, in order to empower tax officials, they are required to defend their own case before the court.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u96	Minister, thank you. Some agents are probably a little distracted. It's okay. You're specific. You tell us that they have access to the data and that they must refer to the last judgment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u97	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, it is my responsibility that FPS Finance officials dealing with administrative litigation would be required, through a process known as "process 110", to reject the claim filed, and thus to confirm the position of the officer responsible for the rectification, when no new grievance or argument is made in the administrative remedy. Minister, do you confirm the existence of this "110 process"? Do you agree with its content and, in particular, with the above-mentioned point? Do you think that it respects the principle of impartiality? How is this decision to reject justified in the light of the law, which requires that the reasons be formal, internal to the act and adequate? Furthermore, could you send me a copy of this document "Process 110" in support of your answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u98	Mr President, Mr Piedboeuf, I confirm the existence of "Process 110". However, it is an internal document. So I can't pass it on to you. As regards the conformity of the "110 process" with the principle of impartiality, the principle of impartiality to be respected by the administration since the reform of the 1999 procedure is the principle of good administration. Its violation requires, on the one hand, that the alleged facts be precise, legally established and such as to cause the suspicion of bias of the organ concerned to rise, and, on the other hand, that it is apparent from the circumstances of the case that partiality may have influenced the decision of that organ. Since 2000, the tax procedure has been amended to require the administration to respond to comments made by the taxpayer as a result of an ex officio notice of rectification or taxation. Parliamentary work on this legislative amendment highlights a desire to better fit into the principles of good administration. Furthermore, in 2001, the legislator considered it appropriate for tax collectors to be responsible for defending their cases themselves before the court of first instance. In this connection, the parliamentary proceedings recall that "the intention of the legislator in reforming the 1999 procedure was to establish a tax and litigation management unit. The reconciliation within the same administrative entity of the tax department and the complaints department makes it possible to speed up the review of administrative disputes." Still follows a whole story on similar points. I propose to give you this very detailed document as a reference.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u99	Thank you, Minister. The 110 will remain a mystery, like the Loch Ness. We'll get him out from time to time!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u100	Minister, we know that the taxpayer must, within 30 days of the completion of the work, notify the tax administration, which will be responsible for assessing whether the work in question is likely to cause a change in the cadastral income of the building concerned, either upwards or downwards – this latter case is more rare, unless it is frankly missed! In accordance with Article 494, § 5 of the Income Tax Code 1992, cadastral income resulting from an assessment or reassessment is supposed to exist from the first day of the month following the event the declaration of which is prescribed by Article 473. The legislator did not specify what was meant by "completion of work". Minister, who sets their completion date? Do your officials have any instructions to follow in this regard? If so, what are they? Does this date differ depending on whether the work results in an increase or decrease in cadastral income? How is it intended to resolve any disagreement on this date between the taxpayer and the administration?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u101	Mr. Piedboeuf, at the request of the Administration Measures and Evaluations, i.e. the cadastre, it is up to the taxpayer to provide the likely date of completion of the work. He is always reminded of the provisions of Article 473, which oblige him to declare voluntarily the end of the work within 30 days. When the date is uncertain, an expert from the cadastre goes to the site to assess the situation. The taxpayer's stated deadline is retained unless the administration has previously found that the work has been completed. Furthermore, the assessment of the date of the event does not depend on the nature of the work. In case of doubt as to the date declared, any supporting evidence may confirm it. Otherwise, a de facto assessment will be required. The degree of completion of the work must allow normal use of the transformed property. The absence of light finishes, such as paint, plinths and others, cannot justify the completion of the work. It is only in the event of a dispute over the enrolment of the real property discount that the taxpayer may refer the matter to the tax conciliation service to express its disagreement as to the date of the event.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u102	Minister, thank you for these answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u103	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smaers' 22872 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Temmerman's 22879 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smaers' 22881 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vandenburre's 22963 is deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u104	Minister, more than a year ago I asked you about the impact of the change to the secret commission scheme. I refer in this respect to my question No. 14275, which was converted into Written Question No 1362. The Minister's reply was as follows, and I quote: 'The General Administration of the Special Tax Inspectorate cannot possibly provide detailed figures within the short period of time concerning the exemptions resulting from the change in the area of attacks on secret commissions'. In the meantime, a year has passed, and I believe that the Minister and his administration have had time to collect these figures. The Programme Act of 19 December 2014 significantly reduced the rate of the attack on secret commissions and changed the conditions of application of the attack. The new rule takes effect from the 2015 attack year, but has also had an impact on the pending disputes and the discussion about the previous attack years. Certainly the BBI keeps a close eye on all the exemptions, as a result of the new regime. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, can you provide an overview of the exemptions resulting from the new regime for each of the tax years since the 2008 tax year, by the BBI and the AAFisc respectively? Secondly, for the 2011 to 2015 tax years, can you provide the following data for corporate tax and GNI companies respectively: the total amount, code 120, concerning the non-accounted costs or benefits of all kinds, hidden additional profits and financial benefits or benefits of all kinds; the shipment with which these data correspond? As far as the latter is concerned, it is possible that for the most recent years the data may not be definitive or not yet definitive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u105	Mr Vanvelthoven, I will begin with your second question. I have that table at my disposal. For the years 2011 to 2015, I hear that the AAFisc and the BBI do not keep those data systematically, and certainly not in an automated way. The search for them would take a particularly long time. Time that might be better spent on fiscal controls? The good news, however, is that the figures can be made available in response to your second question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u106	Thank you, Minister, for the figures you can make available. I understood that the figures mentioned in my first question were kept up to date. If this is not the case, I understand that we should not burden the administration with this work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u107	Questions Nos 23017, 23018 and 23019 by Mr Van Hees are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smaers' 23035 will be converted into a written question. We have no news from Mr Van Peteghem, so his question No. 23050 is deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u108	Minister, a while ago I asked you a question about the international exchange of information through double taxation treaties and the possibilities that our country has with it to detect a number of frauds, including residence fraud, but also social fraud, such as getting a benefit or a living wage with us while possibly having a home abroad. You replied to my question that you had instructed your administration to investigate the possibility of concluding an administrative agreement with a number of countries in order to automatically exchange information on real estate income and property abroad. I'd like to get an update on that investigation. You also replied that you had instructed your administration to check to what extent the FPS Finance can transfer the information contained in the tax bill to the OCMWs. I would also like to see the state of play on this issue. Can you clarify which countries have already been contacted by the tax administration to conclude such an administrative agreement? Which countries have responded positively and which have not? Which countries are you still negotiating with? Can you also give an indication of the timing of such a process in terms of negotiation, signature and approval? When would we see results on the ground? Is it only necessary that an administrative agreement be reached on the automatic exchange of real estate income and property or are you also willing to do the same for profits, movable income and movable property? If not, why not? Finally, can you clarify whether your administration has already completed its investigation? Can you also tell me whether it is possible to effectively transfer the information that can be found on the attack note to the OCMWs, so that they can effectively work with it and so that they can check whether that information is consistent with the statements made by the people in the OCMW themselves? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u109	As regards your first question, my administration has contacted colleagues in Morocco and Turkey informally. This shows that their absolute priority at the moment is the automatic exchange of financial data in accordance with the CRS standard. These countries have explicitly committed themselves to implementing this international standard effectively. This implies that in the short term they do not see the possibility, nor do they have the means, of launching a bilateral project with Belgium on the exchange of information on immovable property. Nevertheless, it will be examined whether an exchange is possible on request. As far as your second question is concerned, as a result of the CRS exchange, Belgium will already receive information from some 100 countries, including Turkey, on the external accounts of Belgian residents, as well as on the movable income and capital gains on those accounts. To the extent that this information relates to income to be declared abroad, the amount of foreign income can be found on the tax bill of the Belgian taxable person concerned. As far as your third question is concerned, the administration is examining how the OMCWs can have better access to tax data. That investigation hasn't been completed yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u110	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think it is important that there should be some kind of cooperation with a number of countries. Your administration has contacted, among other things, Morocco and Turkey. If no bilateral agreements can be concluded in the short term, it is indeed a good idea to consider how exchanges can be made on request. You said that this is being looked at. I will ask you again in one or two months how far that is going. After all, it is important that we exchange. If there is no bilateral agreement and the data can be exchanged in a different way, I think it is right, in addition to what is happening in this area at European level. A few months ago, you announced that you would consider whether it is possible to transfer information to the OCMWs. You're now saying the investigation hasn't been completed. I suppose I will be able to question you again in two months' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u111	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the last meetings you have had with your European Finance colleagues concerning a possible or probable agreement on the Tobin tax. At one of these meetings, it would appear that Belgium has obtained, as you wished, the possibility of excluding pension funds from the scope of the Financial Transaction Tax (FTT). Despite this gesture, she would have refused any agreement. Minister, can you provide us with an update on the latest TTF meetings? Do you confirm the information that Belgium has refused the agreement, despite the exclusion of pension funds from the scope of the TTF? Can you give me more details on how your firm is preparing this type of European meeting? Does your firm use consulting firms to prepare TTF meetings?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u112	Mr Crusnière, various elements of the financial transaction tax, including its scope, are still being examined by the working group that was set up. The current discussions focus more specifically on the types of activities that will remain outside the scope of the financial transaction tax and how to exclude them. The Belgian representation in the Working Group is made up of an attaché from the Permanent Representation of Belgium to the European Union and an official from the FPS Finance. Their starting point, as was the case in all the discussions on the TTF, is the government agreement of 10 October 2014. Finally, to answer your last question, my firm did not call on an outside office.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u113	Minister, thank you for your answer. Having said that, you have not answered my question about Belgium's disagreement with the rejection of pension funds, which I regret. You know, indeed, that for us, the TTF remains a priority issue. I mean, a working group evaluates the areas to be included or not. So I will come back to you regularly so that you can give me an update.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u114	Minister, as part of the corporate tax reform, the FDI deduction was increased from 95% to 100%. The exemption applies both to capital gains and dividends. The income from participation is therefore entirely tax-free. During the discussion of the corporate tax reform, you stated that the costs associated with participations whose income is totally exempt are nevertheless deductible as professional costs. However, in accordance with Article 49, WIB 92, only the costs incurred or borne by the taxable person in order to obtain or retain taxable income are deductible as professional costs. You then referred to other European countries where the same regime would apply. Can you indicate which countries are involved, i.e. countries where income is 100% exempt from tax and where, on top of that, the management and financing costs associated with those participations are deductible as professional costs? As far as the second part of my question is concerned, I understand that you can make those figures available to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u115	Mr Vanvelthoven, I can indeed present to you the table of the codes you have requested. As far as the first part of your question is concerned, there is still a more exhaustive investigation, but I can already tell you that the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Denmark, Poland, Latvia, Lithuania and Bulgaria are exempting from tax 100% participation dividends and not imposing any restrictions on the deductibility of related management and financing costs. The list of these countries is also on the sheet, which you will be handed over.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u116	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u117	Mrs. Smaers has just arrived. I had just said that your question No. 21832 is no longer relevant, because it dates back to November. The combined questions on the European list of tax havens have already been answered. Debates of the European Parliament 22783 you put in plenary last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u118	Thank you, Minister, for taking up my questions when you finish your work here. I apologize for my late arrival, but I was on the Business Committee, where the supplementary pension of the self-employed was dealt with, the 80% rule. In the meantime, that has also been approved. I would also like to thank the government for that. I am asking this question about banking supervision because I am a little concerned about the report of the auditors of five European countries. It is about five large and important countries, except Cyprus, which is not that big. It concerns the audit chambers of the Netherlands, Germany, Cyprus, Finland and Austria. They note in a joint report that there is a growing gap in the control of the public oversight of banks in the euro area. This conclusion is now also supported by all the Courts of Auditors in the euro area, and the European Commission has also noted this in the meantime, following an evaluation of banking supervision. That gap would have arisen in 2014 when the supervision of the large banks in the euro area was placed at the European Central Bank. That decision was taken to prevent another major banking crisis following the 2008 crisis. Much has been done in the meantime in the area of supervision. The alarm is now being sounded, both by the auditors and by the European Commission; we must take this seriously and we must act on it. How do you feel about that? What are your findings regarding those reports and observations? I note that the European Commission has insisted that the European Court of Auditors and the ECB should conclude an agreement on the exchange of information in order to follow up the gap that has been identified. The report considers this to be only a first step. In their view, the mandate of the European Court of Auditors should in fact be strengthened on this point. Therefore, in the report, they jointly suggest that the powers of the European Court of Auditors should be aligned with the mandate given by several audit chambers in the euro area, such as the Dutch and German, to their national supervisory authorities in banks before 2014, i.e. before the adjustment. The report of the five Courts of Auditors also stated that they themselves were losing ground. They want to strengthen the attention of the relevant supervisors. However, there is still a reference to the confidentiality of the information. If there is to be an increased monitoring or exchange of information, confidentiality between all the partners involved should be paramount. Can you clarify, Minister, whether you are aware of this gap and whether you think that report is correct? Do you agree to these findings? What are the possible measures that you believe should be taken to address the problem in the future, bearing in mind the 2008 crisis and the subsequent measures taken? Can you explain whether the same problem also arises in Belgium between the National Audit Board and the Supervisory Board, or is the National Bank responsible for both cases and is the problem not so pressing here in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u119	Mrs Smaers, this is indeed a very important issue. You refer to a joint report from the auditors of five European countries. You mentioned it. This shows that they consider that there would be a growing gap in the supervision of banks. Since 2008, we should all have become particularly sensitive to this. The European Commission would have noted the same in its evaluation of the functioning of the SPS, the Single Supervisory Mechanism. That analysis was published in October 2017. However, in that evaluation, the European Commission confines itself to the following: "This evaluation also looked at the effectiveness of the ECB's external audit, as the application of the European Court of Auditors' audit mandate to the ECB should be considered in the context of the general rules on accountability applicable to the ECB as a supervisor and in the light of the wide differences between the mandates of national audit bodies for national competent authorities, the NCAs. At the same time, it should be stressed that, in accordance with the TFEU, the ECB should provide the European Court of Auditors with all the documents or information it needs to carry out its tasks in accordance with its legal mandate. It would be a good thing if the ECB and the ECA, the European Court of Auditors, were to conclude an interinstitutional agreement clarifying the form in which the exchange of information takes place in order to give the European Court of Auditors access to the information needed to carry out its audit mandate." That's what needs to be done. The key question is what the legal mandate of the European Court of Auditors is in this area. In accordance with Article 27.2 of the Statute of the ECB and of the ESCB, which are annexed as a protocol and therefore have the same value as the Treaty itself, the powers of the European Court of Auditors are limited to an audit of the ECB's efficiency. The limited scope of this mandate was explicitly confirmed by Article 20.6 of the Rules of Procedure of 15 October 2013, which entrusts specific supervisory tasks to the ECB. This competence of the European Court of Auditors in relation to the supervision of the large banks, the so-called system banks, which are under the direct supervision of the ECB, and the exercise of the ECB's powers in relation to the common procedures, therefore excludes a competence of the national audit bodies for that supervision. The five national auditors also claim that they have lost ground in the control of supervision by national supervisors of small and medium-sized banks in their countries. The European legislator has adopted regulations for the communication of certain information to the national audit firms concerning access to the business of national audit firms, which reflects, among other things, the need-to-know principle. The confidentiality obligations and the principle of independence provided for in the SPS Regulation must therefore be respected. The measure proposed by the European Commission, in particular the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement between the ECB and the European Court of Auditors to clarify the form in which the exchange of information takes place in order to give the Court of Auditors access to all information in order to carry out its task in an orderly manner, therefore appears to be the most appropriate measure, taking into account the provisions of the Treaty and the Statute of the ECB and the ESCB. As underlined by the European Commission in its evaluation, the mandates of the National Audit Boards for the NCAs, the national competent authorities, are very different. This is the result of both the specificity of the mandates of the national auditors and the large differences in the institutional statutes of those national competent authorities. The problem does not arise in Belgium because the National Bank of Belgium itself is not subject to the audit of the Court of Auditors. According to Article 16 of its organic law, only the activities of different legal entities to which the Bank had entrusted the performance of contracts which did not belong to the ESCB are subject to the audit of the Court of Auditors. This is not the case for the supervision of banks and other financial institutions. I repeat that this applies to Belgium. So the conclusion is clear to me. In the field of cooperation between the ESCB and the European Court of Auditors, it is recommended that there should be clarification or clarification. Belgium is well placed for the competence and authority of the national competent authority. In particular, the National Bank of Belgium can and does do what it has to do. There may be a number of other countries where there will be a need to ensure that this can be done as strictly as possible. After all, as we experienced in 2008, one or two weak links are enough to create a problem. I hope I have answered your questions in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u120	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I assume that this is a dossier that is also being discussed in the Ecofin Council, or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u121	For the time being, it is not being discussed in that Council. I'm sure it'll be on the agenda. However, the issue has not yet been discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u122	I hope we can learn from that in our country. I hear that this is not very pressing for the National Bank of Belgium and for our control. Maybe the point is good to take, though. After all, I think it would be a good idea to deal with the issue in a similar way for all the countries of Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u123	Mrs Smaers, I have already converted your questions Nos 22872 and 22881 into written questions. Since you're here now, it might be different.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u124	Mr President, you may translate them into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u125	Mr President, Minister, over the past few weeks I have been contacted by a number of accountants on the issue of the transmission of digital accounting. Since it is not theoretical examples but cases taken out of practice, I think it is important to be able to discuss them. It is reported that during an audit the tax authorities have recently asked which accounting package a taxable person or an accounting firm works with. Apparently, the tax authorities then require the accounting office to transfer the entire computer file of that file to the tax authorities in electronic form. Most accounting firms often work with the most common accounting packages and so far they do not allow only certain parts, relevant for the audit, to be copied from an accounting package. Therefore, the taxable persons or offices cannot transfer other than the entire accounts unless they do nothing and therefore do not answer the question put by the tax authorities. However, in practice all the required prints can be made, such as diaries or journals of customers and suppliers, and are delivered to the control services, but such a proposal seems to be insufficient for the control services, which means that the services continue to demand the taxable person's complete digital file. I wonder whether such a requirement is in line with Articles 315 to 315b of the WIB. The accounting offices and taxpayers concerned are de facto forced to transfer everything, although these files also contain privacy-sensitive data. Moreover, these files contain data of years which are either not yet closed and therefore not subject to inspection or are not the subject of the inspection. Article 315 of the WIB provides that a taxable person is obliged to submit all necessary books and documents if the administration so requests, provided that the person concerned does not have to move. The question can be asked as to whether the transmission of full digital accounting is in line with the notion of "presenting without relocation." In addition, Article 315a provides that on-the-spot access to the digital accounts must be carried out by the administration in the presence of the taxpayer or data subject, in case there are still questions about the accounts. Finally, Article 315ter states that the administration has no right of retention in respect of books which have not yet been closed, whereas some accountants seem to be asked to do so. In this context, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you explain whether you are aware of this situation with taxpayers and accountants? Have you had any questions about that? Can you clarify whether the requirements for the transmission of full digital accounts as well as of mail messages are in line with the provisions of Article 315 and Article 315a of the WIB, which clearly states that the submission of such data should take place without movement or on the spot? If so, what is the justification for this? If this is not in line with the provisions of Article 315 et seq., is this requirement excisable under the Antigoon doctrine? Can you tell me whether the requirement for a presentation of the complete accounts is in line with Article 315b, especially when there are data from unfinished financial years? If so, what is the responsibility for this? If this is not in line with the provision of Article 315b, is this requirement also excusable under the Antigoon doctrine? In addition, I would like to say that I note that a number of sector associations of accounting firms want to take action and come up with these questions about your administration. I therefore assume that this will be a wider demand from the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u126	Mrs Smaers, I am not aware of the action or initiative you mention here. If so, this will be dealt with in due course and with due care. Of course, I am aware of the control practices used by my administration, which you are not questioning but about which you are asking questions. Books and modesty were previously kept on paper. These books and documents should in principle be kept with the taxable person. In the circumstances, it is therefore logical for paper accounting documents to be checked on the spot by the administration in order to minimise the administrative burden on the taxable person or his agent when carrying out a tax check. Today, computerized accounting packages are increasingly being used and pieces are being created and archived digitally. The administration therefore adapts its control methods to this ever-changing reality. As mentioned above, the administration may, for example, make an informal request to the taxpayer or his agent asking for certain accounting data or documents to be transmitted digitally. However, it is always stressed that, where appropriate, there is no retention of books and records, given that only copies are requested and therefore not the original source files. Such a method does not preclude the possibility of carrying out an on-the-spot check for any reason. The applicable legal provisions of the WIB 92 and of the VAT Code do not prevent the taxpayer from transmitting digital data to the administration, even if the data requested were rather extensive. However, it is strictly ensured that, in such cases, the existing procedural rules relating to the obligation of presentation are correctly and fully complied with, so that the rights of the taxable person cannot be compromised at any time. Since, in the light of the legislation in force, it is not a question of evidence that would be unlawfully obtained, the Anti-Gun theory does not, in principle, matter here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u127	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. There is still a need to look again, together with the inspection services, at the extent to which simplification can be achieved in accordance with the correct principles of regulation. If the control services ask for the whole package out of ease, I assume, and I read that a little bit between the lines of your answer, then perhaps one should look for a way of exchanging it differently. I understand, of course, that digital accounting documents can also be requested in the digital age, but that should really be limited to the relevant data requested and should not, for example, cover all information on unclosed accounting years, which are still in full processing and have not yet received a final statute. It may be necessary to draw up directives on this matter or to make better arrangements to prevent people from asking for things that cannot and should not be the intention, according to the rules, for convenience, when sending digital accounting in full. Perhaps you should take a look at this and make clearer arrangements with the audit services so that it is not to the detriment of the taxpayer or his accountant when he indicates that the financial year has not yet been concluded by that package, and he asks for an understanding of the fact that everything cannot just be forwarded. In my view, it is appropriate, with a view to a customer-friendly administration, to identify the appropriate rules that may apply in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u128	Minister, you announced last week at Euronext that there would be a superfund to keep tech companies in Belgium. Indeed, there are no investment funds to allow companies to grow at international level, the so-called scale-ups. You mentioned 400 million euros for the scale-ups. Is this a new public fund, which will autonomously seek to support investment companies such as the Gimv, the FPIM or the PMV? What is the statute of that fund? I believe that additional risk capital is needed to finance a number of tech companies. My attention was drawn to an article in Le Soir: "2018, année de la maturité pour nos startups." That article contains statistics collected by Omar Mohout, professor at the Antwerp Management School. Ik quote even uit het artikel:"In 2017, nine investment funds made in Belgium were created. It's a new and very strong signal. If large investments happen, it is because our technological ecosystem has reached a certain maturity," says Omar Mohout. "In 2017, five Belgian companies passed the famous cap of 10 million euros cashed, proof that small startups have become big". A number of other figures show that it is difficult to exceed the EUR 10 million cape of funding from certain funds, even though this is easier in Flanders with the Gimv than in Wallonia. The Gimv has indeed privatized itself and subsequently internationalised itself. That was Herman Daems' work. In the 1990s, I was a minister when we brought the Gimv to the fair and tried to develop the international dimension. Is that a PMV-bis or Gimv-bis? How does this relate to the existing investment companies, both the partially private and partial public Gimv, and the SRIW in Wallonia? What's the status of that superfund? How does this relate to the companies themselves, which are indeed looking for a quantum leap in funding?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u129	Mr Van Rompuy, you yourself have already outlined the framework. I always give an example of what happened to me in June 2016, when I was on some official matter in New York. We then went on half a day off to visit a number of Belgian companies and entrepreneurs in New York, and then my firm belief that they had come to New York for the sake of the market or technology was completely undermined. Except for one or two of the eight or nine companies we visited, they had all moved to New York for the money after their start-up. Start-up money is plenty in Belgium. Anyone who is able to write a business plan can find money. But once people know about how to proceed and start and in most cases they are no longer entitled to 1 or 2 million, the problem of finding that money is being faced. The exit from companies to, for example, New York is motivated in at least three quarters of cases by the fact that they find no or insufficient funding here. That's the whole backdrop of the story. Your question is, above all, what the fund will do, what it means, what the statute is, who will set it up. The role of the federal government in this is a facilitating role. We do not invest money in this, let us be clear. The Belgian government will establish a fund of funds in a public-private partnership between institutional investors, on the one hand, and the Federal Investment and Participation Company, FPIM, on the other. A link to PMV and SRIW has already been explicitly established. PMV has responded very enthusiastically, SRIW is interested. The enthusiasm on the Flemish side was slightly greater than on the Walloon side. Anyway, we're working on that. The capital comes from the private sector. The majority will probably be FPIM's input, but it will be very limited. It will therefore be mainly insurance companies and pension funds that are looking for profitability for their activities in this way. We aim for an initial capital of 350 to 400 million that we want to bring together in this way. The fund will be managed in a market-based manner. A fund manager will be recruited on the basis of a public tender that will assess experience and expertise. Furthermore, the fund of funds, the big fund, will mainly invest in funds with venture capital with what is called the Belgian angle in the terminology of those markets. It is therefore venture capital funds that invest a substantial part of their portfolio in Belgian growth companies. You know that we should not be too restrictive about this, otherwise we will have a problem with Europe. However, that is the context, facilitating the flow of money from institutional investors to scale-ups, to companies almost always in the technology field that have started, then having to make some adjustments and now have a new business plan and thus new capital needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u130	(...) is an initiative. Look at the Gimv, who's been doing such activities for years. They complain a lot. Look what the Gimv has in cash at the end of the year. They say that they do not find sufficient projects to do so. Then they go abroad and then there is criticism, also in Flanders, because the Gimv has been privatised and goes internationally. We also have the scale-up companies here, not EUR 1 million or EUR 2 million, but EUR 10 million. The government's initiative must fit in with the policies of our private investment companies. Several are mentioned, also in the study: UCB Ventures, Belfius start-up fund, Fortimo, Smile Invest. I'm not sure what the government's doing for this. You're saying that the government itself doesn't invest any capital there. This is complementary to pension funds and investment companies. I think it should be clearer what the precise instrument is.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u131	Mr President, two larger funds have recently been set up, the Urbain Vandeurzen fund and the Ducko Sickinghe fund. It is very good and positive that they are present and will be operational, but for us it is about the flow of start-ups to scale-ups. There's a whole market of takeovers. Some of these funds are more focused on taking over companies, to bring them to a larger context. This may be a good thing in some cases, but we want, above all, the flow of a small technological initiative, a few smart boys or girls who try everything, to a real company based on the technology they have developed. Taking over or taking over is for a later phase. There really is a hole there. There are the venture capitals of 100 000 or 500 000 euros and then there is the growth of the company and the possible acquisition. Many of the funds, some of which you mentioned, look more closely at whether they can sell a particular company to a French, British or American company, while we like to see those companies grow into a larger company on our own. If that's up and running, then you have to see for yourself how it develops, but then it has the substance. You're right. Much remains to be discussed, including with the Gimv, in order to arrive at a project. I'd like to hear you say that you think it's a good initiative. I am convinced that it is a good initiative because it will enable us not only to increase employment, but also to keep technology here. Much of this is happening internationally. However, if the cradle is here, there will also be many more spin-offs here. Imec is a wonderful example of this, but unfortunately it is one of the exceptions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u132	Minister, I have seen another table entitled 'le capital à risque levé en Belgique'. In 2012, this was 56 million euros over 42 companies. In 2017, this was 330 million euros over 178 companies, which means 590 % growth, of which 72 percent in Flanders. So there is something going on in that area. However, the scale-ups still do not get enough opportunities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic803x.u133	Minister, you can see that my timing is right. It's 5:00. All questions have been answered. I have to say that both of Mr Van der Maelen's questions, namely Question No 5, by Mr Van der Maelen, have been taken into account. Question No 23148 and Question No 23149, converted into written questions.
