ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u1	Question No 25121 by Mr Emir Kir is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u2	Mr President, Minister, I come back to a matter that has already been referred to in committee. This is the reimbursement of the linguistic bonuses due to the Brussels municipalities for the agents who passed the Selor test, the bilingualism test required according to the type of function they assume. Verification carried out, all Brussels municipalities have not benefited since 2015 from the payment of the premiums provided according to the regulations. When asked in committee in November 2017, you stated that "the government of the Brussels Region has an important responsibility in this regard because it is up to it to ensure the legality of the appointments of staff members in the communes and CPAS" and you confirmed the refusal of reimbursement on the grounds that "services pay linguistic bonuses to staff members who do not have a Selor certificate, whereas the Brussels government's decree of 29 September 2011 provides that regional services can only pay a linguistic bonus to staff with a Selor certificate". You concluded by stating that "applying the law providing that the federal state can only repay the language bonuses paid to officials who actually have a Selor certificate". I must say that I have the proof, particularly in my communal administration, that the agents for whom we ask for payment of premiums have the Selor certificate and that we do not receive the premiums announced. I would add that, in the meantime, the Constitutional Court has annulled the legal provisions which reserve exclusively to Selor the competence to certify the knowledge of the other national language. There is now an important legal vacuum that federal legislators must fill. And in any case, you will no longer be able to consider, in the light of the ruling of the Constitutional Court, that only Selor can attest to the knowledge of the other national language for the agents who are subject to the bilingualism regime. It is therefore difficult to understand your argument, which seems to completely ignore and the scope of the Constitutional Court's ruling and the legislation in force. I ask you, minister, if you are finally considering unlocking the amounts of the premiums to be paid for agents who have met the requirement of knowledge of the other national language when the conditions are imposed on them by law. If so, within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u3	Mr Maingain, if there are problems with the Brussels local authorities because there has been no reimbursement of language allowances, these problems have only been caused by the fact that these Brussels communes have recruited, despite language laws, staff members who do not have a language certificate. In addition, some municipalities still grant language allowances to their staff members who do not have a language certificate. In my view, the Brussels government has a great responsibility but, of course, the municipalities also have their responsibility. As regards the reimbursement of premiums, I can inform you that I am organising a consultation with the Brussels-Capital Region. On a provisional basis, I have not yet received a correct or complete route or data from the Brussels government. However, I am organising a consultation with the Region to unblock the situation. As soon as I have the complete data, I will, of course, establish a royal decree to reimburse the linguistic premiums.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u4	I do not know whether to interpret the minister's words as a glimmer of hope! First of all, I support being very clear: I do not ask for reimbursement of premiums for agents who have not met the second language test. I do not believe that there is a commune that justifies the Region's payment of bonuses for agents who did not meet the second language test. On the other hand, Minister, you cannot ignore the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which has clearly confirmed the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union as meaning that Selor can no longer be the only certifying body for the knowledge of the second language. The municipalities, on the basis of this ruling of the Constitutional Court, are entitled to consider that other certifiers, pending a more explicit legal provision, may be recognised. But this is a recent fact because the Constitutional Court's decision dates from no more than one year. It is certainly not for previous years that the municipalities would have taken into account the certifications established by another body than Selor. I must admit that one thing is to know whether the communes are able to find the staff members who meet the bilingual requirements when it is well known that they are facing a very serious difficulty in doing so. Another is to know who is entitled to the premium. The latter are only agents who have met the requirement of knowledge of the second language. As such, payment must be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u5	Mr Vice Prime Minister, during the discussion of the policy paper for 2018, you informed us that the core tasks analysis should be an integral part of each mandate and letter of assignment. As a realisation horizon for the core tasks plan, 2018 was established. The year 2018 is now halfway and for certain yards the capacity and/or budgetary profit is already clear. You already reported some results, not including the Security Directorate (DAB) project. From the answers to previous questions from colleagues Degroote and Poncelet we learned that nine yards have already been completed but that this resulted in only a capacity gain of 98 men. The target was a profit of 2,500 men. We are talking about a reorientation of human resources towards the core tasks of the police of 850 full-time equivalents, 450 for the local police and 400 for the federal police. The six-month training for the SAB started on 1 March and will be spread over a period of one and a half years. The success rate of the selection is currently low, about 8 %. Every effort shall be made to comply with the deadlines, both at staff level and at work processes, infrastructure, logistical needs, the taking over of the missions of Defence and the BAC Security Corps. Last Thursday, you recorded in plenary that we are on schedule with regard to the SAB. I have the following specific questions. Firstly, can you tell us what the current state of play is with regard to the implementation of the core tasks plan for the 19 different yards? What capacity and budgetary gains do we have or expect? How does this relate to the original objectives? Secondly, how many candidates started training for the SAB on 1 March? What is the status of infrastructure and logistics needs? Thirdly, what is the current state of play in the forecasted second wave of the core tasks plan? What capacity and budgetary gains do we have or expect from it? Finally, can you confirm once again that the core tasks analysis should be an integral part of each mandate and of each letter of order and therefore also for the period 2019-2024?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u6	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, I have often offered the committee a thorough and comprehensive explanation of the state of play of the core tasks plan and the 19 yards. After all, the time frame for questions is rather short. I can only offer that, but I note that we do not accept it and therefore have to provide partial information in response to questions. With regard to your first and third questions, I refer to the most recent answer I gave to Mrs Poncelet on 26 April and to which you yourself referred. In this I indicated that 9 out of 20 yards have been completed. Since that answer to that written question, there has been a lot of evolution, especially in the file of the SAB. There are still a number of yards whose implementation should be profitable in the long term, such as the rationalization of police deployment for bailiffs and the complete electronic handling of the minutes, where I and my colleague Koen None hope to find a solution to a legislative initiative. The latter is currently being implemented by, among other things, the Crossborder project which is already operational. It still knows a few children's diseases. Some projects have not immediately led to a reduction in staffing as the redrafting was accompanied by an increase in workload. This applies to the no longer fully unsubscribe tabs. When one reduces the write-out to a minimum, but meanwhile there are so many more CVs, the sum of them gets close to what it was before. There are indeed savings and higher revenues. For example, the certification of dogs yields between EUR 200 000 and EUR 300 000 per year. Overall, after full implementation within the federal police, some EUR 573 000 of operating costs will be reoriented. The studies are currently being carried out for the outsourcing of HRM and logistics. Those yards are also ending now. We have always said that the SAB is fully operational by the end of 2019. The first 58 aspirants started training on 1 March and will be operational on 1 September this year. So far 183 aspirants have started training. In March a training started, but meanwhile three more started: 85 on the campus of Jumet, 33 on the campus of Vottem, 40 on the campus of Ghent and 25 on the campus of Wilrijk. Currently, priority is given to the sites whose implementation of the operational staff is expected by the end of the year. At the same time, the research and development of housing solutions will continue for the next implementation phase. In the four federal police schools of Jumet, Vottem, Ghent and Antwerp, training as a security agent has started. The planned additional training at the police schools was accompanied by the search for additional infrastructure to provide the best possible training. As regards the infrastructure at the place of work, work is being carried out on-the-spot. In all arrondissements, the best accommodation is examined separately. For the infrastructure made available for the monitoring of nuclear sites, negotiations with the nuclear sites are in the final phase. Some of the buildings on some sites are already occupied by the staff. The logistical needs for the candidates starting their training are listed and financially covered on the basis of a detailed estimate and budgeting approved by the various budgetary control authorities. The purchase orders for individual and collective equipment, armament, vehicles, furniture and consumables are in progress for phase 1 and partially for phase 2. For some orders there is a delay in delivery or a shortage in stock. These are matters that are closely followed. The purchase for the remaining part of the second phase of these logistical needs shall be approved by the financial control authority. So that's all going its way. Indeed, I remain convinced that an increase in efficiency should be part of every letter of order. I will look, together with the new Commissioner-General, at how we can incorporate this into his objectives. But, of course, we must also be realistic about the feasibility of this. New insights have also emerged from this key task debate at a certain point. Let me give you an example. At some point, the question has arisen as to whether we should outsource the police's medical leg. The question was why the police should employ doctors. That was one of the 20 yards. Further study work has shown, and we have therefore decided to do so, that we could use this medical leg better for the excessively long absence. Overzealous may be a wrong word, but the long-term absence from the federal police is double the average among officials. If one can reduce that to normal proportions, one has a huge profit on capacity and budget. We have opted to use that medical leg for that purpose and therefore not to outsource. He gets a specific new assignment, namely getting control of those long-term absences. A decision is taken at some point. The study work will then go further and it will be noted that a reorientation is needed. Same story with our recruitment process. We wanted to outsource the HRM department. We have used it to thoroughly adjust our recruitment process, because that also left serious shortcomings. A core task project is started at a certain point but on the way there are progressive insights and guidance. My offer remains valid to look at the 20 yards in detail in committee. I can only suggest that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for the state of play. I suggest that we discuss with the chairman of the committee how we can match your offer. This will be before after recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u8	As chairman of the Committee on the Interior, I fully agree with that, so I would immediately ask the committee secretariat to order the explanations of those 20 recruits in the key tasks debate in consultation with the permanent committee chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u9	Mr President, before I ask my question, I insist that you inform Mr Nollet... no, that's a joke. I do insist on paying tribute to all those staff members working day after day, week after week, to reply to the questions put by Mr Nollet. If the chairman of the committee asks what the cost of answering all these questions is, then I am prepared to proceed immediately to my question without waiting for Mr Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u10	And what benefits?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u11	The cost-benefit analysis does not even need to be calculated, I think. Mr Minister, my question concerns the cost of cleaning up drug labs. The parquets of Antwerp and Limburg have a directive in the making on the cost of this action. According to the public prosecutor, these costs should now be seen in the context of public security and therefore no longer as legal costs. This would also mean that the cost of the disposal and treatment of chemical waste associated with the disposal of drug labs would be borne by the administrative authorities and no longer by the judicial authorities. In my question, I also refer to the recent amendment of the Royal Decree of 10 June 2014 concerning the tasks and tasks of Civil Protection. Apparently, it is not entirely clear who will be responsible for these costs from now on. It goes without saying that when the payment is passed on to the local authorities, this will cause major problems. A prominent mayor of your party from South Limburg has had a lot of problems. It will only happen that a number of drug labs are found in a border municipality and that municipality has to pay for it. Then we are not even talking about the treatment of chemical waste or soil remodelling. Minister, where will these costs end up? Is that in the municipalities, or at least in the assisted areas, in the Civil Protection or in the regional services when it comes to soil pollution? What is the role of OVAM in these matters? My question has been asked. I'm not going to elaborate on drug labs unless there's an analogy in terms of danger in cleaning up cannabis plantations, but that's not the subject of this question. I can come back to that at a later date if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u12	Mr Terwingen, this is a public prosecutor's decision. So you should really go to Minister Geens for this. The Royal Decree of 10 June 2014 indicates that the decommissioning can be done by Civil Protection. The aid areas, the fire zones, in other words, are not provided for either. These are often planned interventions in consultation with the police. Civilian Protection can then be responsible for the transport to a location for further processing on the notification of the competent administrative authority. That's their job. In the case of small quantities, the local container fleet can process this. In the case of large quantities, private processing companies can be used. Civilian Protection can come and remove it and will determine whether it can end up in the container park, or whether a private processing company needs to be involved. The decision itself is prepared by the public prosecutor. I don't think you should question Minister None of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u13	I was already thinking of asking the two ministers. The question was specifically which administrative authority is responsible, because of course there are several administrative authorities in which you are also competent. Suppose the fire zones have to do it, but they can't do it themselves, who will have to pay the costs of firms responsible for cleaning and cleaning? Who should pay the cost of Civil Protection? Apparently, there is still uncertainty about this. I will also question Minister None of this, but I will also ask you further questions, because my point has not yet been fully answered. Civil Protection is here to clean up the mess. It used to be solved with that. The cost was for Civil Protection. Now it's being taken away. The question is, who's gonna pay? I'll ask another follow-up question about that. My question is also whether the cannabis plantations are part of that. I don't know how far Edegem is from the border area, I don't think that far. There are also a number of other municipalities there. I think this will really be a gap in the budget. If it comes to the point where local authorities have to pay for this, this should be done in solidarity with other municipalities, in Flanders but perhaps also in Belgium as a whole. The border municipalities will be the first to face this. It should not be the case that border municipalities or local police areas have to clean up and then pay the bill. It can't be that drug labs or cannabis plantations are tolerated, just because one doesn't want to get the bill presented afterwards. That would be the worst thing that could happen to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u14	Mr Minister, we discussed this issue at our committee on 4 July. However, I would like to deepen the exchange with you following the publication of Electrabel's communication the day after our exchange. In this communication, referred to by the Belga agency, Electrabel explains that the pins of the reinforcements probably moved at the time the concrete was cast. This explanation surprises me in view of what you said the day before and which did not include such elements. You were talking about the poor positioning of some of the slab calipers and the lack of effectiveness of the initial check of the calipers. A poor initial positioning is something a priori very different from a poor positioning following the concreteing. A caliper is also different from a pin. Could you give me more enlightenment? I would also like you to clarify the location of the problem(s). In your answer you talk about both the slab and the bunker ceiling. Is it the ceiling slab or the floor slab? What about the walls? Is only the ceiling hit or are the tops of the walls also hit? Finally, on the assumption that a problem of the same type but of lower gravity stopped Doel 3 for ten months, how can we explain, justify and accept that Electrabel is announcing, at this stage, only six months of work for Tihange 3? For the best of information, I would also like you to clarify whether any of the bunker's as build plans exist and what they contain as regards pins and other calipers, in view of what has been discovered recently.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u15	Mr President, Mr Nollet, let me first clarify the terms used earlier to describe the cross-sectional reinforcements of the concrete slab. The word "trailer" has been used here in the most general Anglo-Saxon sense of the term. In Dutch and English, only one term is used and we would have simply spoken of beugels in Dutch and stirrups in English. The French School of Civil Engineering, however, distinguishes between calipers and pins. The calipers consist of a closed steel loop with two rods, while the pins consist of an open steel strand consisting of a single rod simply curved at its ends. The pins that are discussed here for the roof slab of the Tihange 3 bunker are also called twigs, hence sometimes the shortcut with the generic term "trail". The positioning defects at the feet of the pins are located at the lower part of the pins. The feet of the pins may have been poorly positioned at the mounting, just as they may have been moved by the liquid mass of fresh concrete when casting the roof slab. Currently, it is difficult to identify the exact cause of this positioning defect. Degradations and anomalies detected are located in the lower part of the bunker roof slab at the lower side of the bunker. This side therefore constitutes the ceiling of the three steam discharge chambers of the bunker. The fences on the walls are different. In Tihange 3, the concrete of the walls has also been protected, in recent years, from steam and heat by insulating mineral plates. To date, no degradation has been observed in the upper walls, inside the rooms. Due to their less worrying condition, the interior walls of the rooms are not currently being stripped and repaired. The extent of concrete degradation in Tihange 3 is less than in Doel 3. However, as I have already indicated, the AFCN cannot rule on the possible date of a restart. However, I can assure you that no restart of the reactor can be envisaged without the approval of the safety authority. Electrabel is currently not in a position to provide the security authority, as requested by it, with plans as built from the Tihange 3 bunker. The plans certified for construction (CFC) therefore act as plans as built. It should be noted, however, that the plans certified for construction do not, of course, mention an anomaly. If such ironing anomalies had been detected at the time of construction of the bunker, they should have been corrected before they could be allowed to be concreted. The answer also contains some drawings of the different types of frames, calipers, pins, etc. We can send you this document for your information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u16	Minister, I'm interested in the graphics. On the other hand, I am very concerned that there are no plans as built. You clearly say that there are no plans as seen after the construction. It's not normal at all. You say precisely: "Electrabel was not able to provide them to the Federal Agency". That is an issue for us. It is an essential document that would no longer be available to the operator or that the operator would not be able to provide it to the Agency. I'll follow this file. It'll be for the school year. Admit with me that it is, at the very least, unique to see that the Agency is asking for these plans – which is quite logical to be able to compare – and that we no longer have them! It's at least amateurism or something else! Your collaborator was also to send me two points from the Commission of 20 June, in connection with questions 13 and 16. This has not yet been passed on to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u17	Minister, on June 23, 2018, the Radioelements Institute (IRE) apparently shipped three packages containing radioactive substances for medical use, outside of compliance with the legislation. This event was classified at level 1 of the INES scale. What exactly happened in this Institute located in Fleurus, active in the packaging of radioactive substances, such as molybdenum-99, iodine-131 or xenon-133? What limits have been crossed and how high? How was the problem detected? Is it certain that similar exceedances have not already occurred without their detection? What did you decide to impose so that this type of incident would not happen again? What has the AFCN decided to impose?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u18	Mr. Nollet, the Radioelements Institute is an active public utility institute primarily in the packaging of radioactive substances that are widely used in hospitals for treatment purposes. On Saturday, June 23, 2018, IRE shipped three packages containing radioactive substances for medical use, molybdenum-99 solutions to a customer. The volume of solutions shipped slightly exceeded the maximum volume allowed for the package design used. These packages may only contain a maximum volume of 20 ml. In this case, the volumes of the three packages were 21.24 ml, 22.16 ml and 22.17 ml, respectively. However, the limits on the maximum radioactive activity which may be present in the package have not been exceeded. The safety functions of the package used have been guaranteed and have not been degraded by these exceedances of the maximum volume of solutions. In addition, these packages arrived well at their destination. The volume exceedance was observed by the IRE during the production of vials, but the quality assurance system and the verification measures put in place did not manage this deviation until the packages were shipped. The IRE immediately reported this deviation to the AFCN, as required in the criteria for reporting events that may have an impact on safety. In the recent past, no similar incidents have occurred in the IRE. After analyzing and following the non-compliance with the conditions of the authorized contents (volume) of the package model used for transport, this event was classified at level 1 of the INES scale, which is therefore an anomaly. Such notifications of events that may have an impact on safety are always assessed by the AFCN or its technical subsidiary Bel V to verify whether the operator has learned the necessary lessons to prevent such occurrences from reoccurring. Since, in the case of the IRE, two events concerning the transport and shipment of radioactive material occurred within a short period of time, the AFCN will evaluate the relevant procedures and working methods and ensure that corrective and preventive measures have been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u19	Mr President, I reserve my reply to the following question, which deals with the same problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u20	Minister, a few days after the June 23 INES 1 incident, a new incident occurred on June 27 in IRE. Can you tell us more about this incident and its origins? Why was it ranked at Level 1 on the INES scale? What have you decided, in consultation with the AFCN, to impose so that this type of incident does not happen again? What more comprehensive analysis do you make of the IRE situation in relation to respect for the culture of safety and security? Shouldn't we be asking ourselves serious questions about IRE, given the multiplication of INES 1 incidents in a week?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u21	Mr Nollet, on 27 June, IRE reversed two packages containing 131 radioactive iodine. The first, whose activity was measured at 6.14 Bq, was erroneously shipped to a customer in the Netherlands, whereas the one he was supposed to receive had to have an activity of 3.07 Bq. This inversion was caused by a human error. To prevent such an event from happening again, the IRE has adapted its procedures to better formalize the performance of a second independent control of the package to be sent. This package was therefore delivered to a bad address. However, the undertaking which received the package had the necessary authorisation and the means of radiation protection to handle it. All radiological safety procedures have been followed. In the meantime, all packages have returned to the IRE. After analysis, as a result of this error in the delivery address, this event was classified at level 1 of the INES scale, which corresponds to an anomaly. It has no impact on the safety of staff and the public, nor on the environment. Such notifications of events that may have an impact on safety are always evaluated by AFCN or its technical subsidiary Bel V, to verify whether the operator has learned the necessary lessons to prevent such events from reoccurring. Since in the case of the IRE, two events involving the transport and shipment of radioactive material took place in a very short period of time, the AFCN will evaluate the relevant procedures and working methods and ensure that corrective and preventive measures have been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u22	Minister, I think two INES 1 rankings are famous signals. It is still not every day, and fortunately, that this happens to IRE in Fleurus. We know that there have also been changes in management. But if the bar is not quickly straightened, more serious problems could arise than those who, you said, could be controlled without consequences for the population – and fortunately. It is therefore very good that the Agency can undertake a more comprehensive reflection on what is happening at the IRE, and not only in connection with these two recent events. I think an INES 1 ranking in this kind of situation is a famous signal, already repeated twice in a week.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u23	Minister, this Thursday, July 5, 2018, the city of Huy where the Tihange nuclear power plant is located was testing, like 129 other municipalities, the BE-Alert system, which must, in principle, allow the authorities to alert the population in situations of nuclear emergency. This system is also expected to replace in January 2019 the Seveso sirens of the country, which was heard again this Thursday at noon in Huy. These communes, 79 in number, had to carry out a real sending of SMS messages to the people who signed up for BE-Alert. In Huy, there are now 738 Hutois registered in the system. However, many of them did not receive this alert message. I have friends who are in this case. That is why I would like to ask you the question. I have taken my information several times over the course of this week, these people are well registered. They received a confirmation email. They followed all procedures as required. How come these people didn't receive text messages? I remember that the system was simply saturated. Can you confirm this, as this would be an important criterion for evaluation? This is a start-up phase. We agree that tests should be used for this. What will happen when the 21 000 Hutois are included in this scheme? I'm concerned about the failure of this test. What will happen in the event of a real crisis? I would like to express my concern because you will recall that we have already had an opportunity to discuss the removal of the sound system. Of course, it is wise to develop channels by e-mail, SMS and fixed line to communicate in a more targeted way in the event of a disaster. However, did the exercise not demonstrate that BE-Alert was not yet ready to replace the Seveso sirens? Should we not maintain them until we are sure that the new device is working for the good of all? Then we were told that the text message was not received because the message box was full. I'm worried about that. Therefore, could we not learn from this exercise that the Seveso system should be kept side by side? That's the meaning of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u24	Mr Nollet, on Thursday 5 July, 145 cities and municipalities sent a test message via BE-Alert. This operation resulted in a total of more than 200,000 text messages, 650 voice messages and 108,000 e-mails. This was the first time the alert platform was tested on such a large scale. First of all, I would like to welcome this important commitment of the local authorities to the safety of their citizens. The town of Huy was one of 145 communes. At 0951, it triggered BE-Alert by sending a text message to the 799 Hutois registered in the system. At 0959, 95.1 per cent of registrants had received the test message. I can therefore only note with you that the alert system has worked very well on a technical level. Due to the scale of this exercise and the synchronization of those conducted by the country's 145 cities and municipalities, delays in sending SMS messages were observed in some locations. In the coming weeks, the Crisis Centre, in collaboration with its partners, will evaluate the tests and consider future improvements. I also invite every city and municipality that has tested their alert procedure to do the same. In Huy and elsewhere, it is important to identify areas for improvement and respond to citizens' concerns about this new technology. As part of the tests conducted last Thursday, many citizens thought they would receive a message while their commune did not test or carry it out in an area that did not concern them. Some even thought they were enrolled in the system when they had not finalized their registration. All these practical details must be identified in order to properly inform our citizens and to improve, where appropriate, the more technical elements of this modern alert platform. The warning of the population is indeed essential. Thanks to BE-Alert, the authorities finally have a technological tool allowing a multi-channel alert, fast and direct. In addition to text messages, voice calls, emails or messages via social media, BE-Alert aims to evaluate and integrate new complementary alert channels such as electronic information panels. In the event of a major accident, the city of Huy, the governor of Liège and myself as Minister of Security and Home Affairs can quickly activate all these channels to alert not only the 799 Hutois registered today but also the 21,000 inhabitants you are quoting and visitors of one day, thanks to this specific technology of localized SMS, which is an integral part of our array of alert channels. One year after the launch of BE-Alert, 70% of the Belgian municipalities, or 418, have already joined this alert platform. In 26 emergency situations, the population was alerted directly by BE-Alert. The authorities are assuming their responsibilities. It is now up to the citizens to take their own. Last Thursday, awareness-raising took place and an additional 34,000 registrations were recorded after the tests. This personal and responsible approach is to be supported. If everyone takes two minutes to register, we will, together, be better prepared for an emergency. With regard to the use of sirens, it is clear that until the new system is fully functional, we will keep the old technology. This is a commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u25	Minister, thank you for this commitment. It's important. I invite you to pay attention to the percentages. Indeed, you say that 95% of the people registered in the system received the message. This already means that 5% of them did not receive it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u26	97.1%.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u27	In any case, some people did not receive it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u28	Sometimes some do not receive the message because their message box is full.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u29	I mentioned the full message boxes in my question. This is problematic, because it is believed that the person received it when it is not. This is why a complementary system is needed. I'm going back to the famous 97%. The people of my knowledge, whom I told you about, had contact with the Crisis Centre. I agree: it's an exercise, it's a first and it's interesting. It needs to be evaluated. The municipalities will react, but so will the citizens. The Crisis Centre claims that these people are not registered, and it is therefore normal that they did not receive the text. But they themselves checked the history of their mailbox: they had received their registration. They clicked on the site. There's something to evaluate, beyond the numbers. That's a good signal. Let's not stop at 97%. People think they're registered because they've received the registration confirmation email, but they haven't been registered. This must be part of the evaluation, and it must be made clear. I am reassured that sirens will continue to operate until we are sure of the system. I remain in the idea of building this system positively with you. We should test the push system, in which we send the text messages to everyone who is located in a place, like a football field, at Heysel for example. We would see if we could reach 30,000 people at the same time. It may be interesting to test if it works too. Sending a message to those who are located at a particular location is still something else. These are some ideas in the perspective of improving the system, not criticising what people are trying to put in place, in addition to much-needed devices, in Tihange in particular, but not only.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u30	My question relates to the organization of actors in the event of nuclear disasters. How are events managed in terms of personnel of essential services in the event of a serious nuclear incident? Should all members of the emergency and response services who will intervene in the event of a nuclear accident in the potentially contaminated area be voluntary or will you proceed by forced requisition? In the case of a purely voluntary approach, how can we organize things if the number of volunteers is insufficient? In case of requisition, who makes the necessary decisions? Will decisions be centralized? In the event of intervention by firefighters, do they remain under the responsibility and authority of the public authorities or do they intervene under the sole responsibility and authority of the operators? If this latter assumption is used, what guarantee can you give that in the event of an arbitration/conflict between economic and environmental interests, or even human interests, it is always the latter that prevails if it is not the public authority that makes the decisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u31	Mr Nollet, events requiring the activation of the nuclear emergency plan and, consequently, the development of a structured response in and outside the operating site must be identified by the operator and promptly notified to the competent authorities in accordance with the requirements and procedures laid down in the nuclear emergency plan. This notification shall enable the latter to activate the strategic response at the national and local levels as well as the operational response on the ground. It may involve the necessary interventions on the affected site, the organisation of protection actions for the population in a specific intervention area and, where appropriate, the implementation of initiatives outside the intervention area – for example, when setting up reception centres and centres for the measurement of contamination and decontamination. The management of staff shall therefore be carried out with the utmost care, with due regard for the protection of the population, stakeholders and the environment. Local strategic coordination is ensured by the governor, who is assisted by his provincial coordination committee, in collaboration with the relevant mayor(s) who chairs their respective municipal coordination committee. This strategic coordination is intended, at first instance, to take the decisions necessary for the implementation of the protection measures decided by the Federal Management Unit. Local operational coordination was the responsibility of the operational command post (PC-OPS), which is in liaison with the provincial coordination committee and, where appropriate, with the relevant municipal coordination committees. The organisation of local strategic and operational coordination is described in the special emergency and intervention plans of governors and mayors whose territory is located in an emergency planning area for the protection of the population. Specific aspects of a response to a nuclear or radiological emergency are included in the multidisciplinary plans. This organization on the ground will be done in the best possible way, defining priorities according to the means available. It is clear that effective management of a nuclear incident will require a very large volume of personnel. The competent authorities will therefore ensure the necessary rise in power, on the basis of the information received and with the assistance, if necessary, of the other relief areas of the country. Moreover, in accordance with international agreements, and if the situation so requires, I can also request specialized international assistance for nuclear emergencies. This request is addressed directly to neighbouring countries, or through the procedures provided for by the European Commission or IAEA. This international assistance can be requested either in support or in addition to our own capabilities in terms of equipment, means of protection and actions of intervention services. Responses to emergencies of a nuclear or radiological nature are part of the general provisions of emergency planning and crisis management in Belgium, using the general principles and general provisions. Only those who may be exposed in a radiological emergency during the performance of their mission must be voluntary. If the assessment of the situation ensures that stakeholders are not at risk of exceeding this value, they need not necessarily be voluntary. If requisitions are to take place, they must be made in accordance with the principle of proportionality, which seeks to balance the interests between the management of an emergency situation and the protection of fundamental rights, including the right to life, enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights, which each State has in principle the obligation to respect. The main decisions are taken in the management unit, in accordance with the general rules on crisis management. If the requisition were to be part of it, it would have to comply with the rules applicable to requisitions for all types of emergency situations, in particular the principles of legality, subsidiarity and proportionality. In the field of civil security, the most frequent basis is article 181 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007, which determines, inter alia, the persons competent to make the requisition, the conditions and the financial aspects. The intervention of all operational disciplines is always carried out under the responsibility of the competent administrative authorities. However, if the intervention takes place on site, the stakeholders are automatically placed under the responsibility of the operator who is in charge of their safety and dosimetry. However, the authorities responsible for the management of the situation and/or the Federal Nuclear Control Agency may, at any time, if the public order or the protection of the population so requires, impose actions on the operator for the control of the emergency situation at the operating site. In this case and in the general interest, the decisions of the authorities shall have priority over that of the operator. Finally, I will conclude by stating that the nuclear plan explicitly provides that in the event of a conflict between the decisions of the operator and the administrative authorities, the decisions of the administrative authorities take precedence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u32	Minister, thank you for that answer, which I will take time to analyse. The balance of interests aspect is really not obvious, neither on the voluntary side versus the requisition, because we must take into account the interests of the persons concerned and of the wider population, nor on the balance of interests between the operator and the public authority, even if, on this aspect, you seem to be clearer: in case of necessity, it is the authority that always has the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u33	Minister, in our last discussion on the subject, in mid-May, you announced to me that there were still a few ten percent of responses to be received from two major subcontractors and to be analysed in order to finally have a complete file. You also said that you hoped to have all these answers at the end of June. I therefore come back to you with the hope of being able to close the case permanently and, above all, to be totally reassured. Has one of our nuclear power plants been, through subcontractors, an indirect customer of Kobe Steel? What are the components that may be affected? Have you received all the guarantees that direct (especially on steam generators) and indirect (via subcontractors) falsifications would not pose any risk to our plants and therefore to workers and residents?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u34	Mr. Nollet, since our last exchange on May 16, the AFCN has not received any new information from the operator on this file. I cannot therefore present you with an update on the situation in this case. AFCN told me that the requested information should be available during August. I'm sure you'll rest the question in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u35	That's right, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u36	Minister, following our June 20 exchange on the INES 1 incident on June 7 at the Tihange 2 nuclear power plant, you told us that "you were really tired of it" that there was again a lack of a safety culture. In the meantime, you announced that ENGIE-Electrabel's management would be convened again. I come back to you to find out how this meeting took place, what was exchanged there, the commitments that were made and the conclusions that you draw from it. How does ENGIE justify what happened and this new lack of a safety culture? What have they decided to put in place so that this will not happen again? What do you get from all this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u37	Mr. Nollet, on July 4, I received Electrabel's CEO and the NOC (Chief Nuclear Officer) from my office and asked them about the various incidents of the past few weeks related to the safety culture. I also asked them how the action plan for the safety culture was moving forward. Indeed, they had spoken of an action plan before. They told me that the action plan was coming to an end, but that the effect of the actions was of course not instantaneous. Changing a safety culture does not occur from day to day. However, they acknowledged that there was still work to be done after the action plan. Major changes have taken place in management. They have organized thousands of hours of training. The procedures have been adjusted. They said that they had noticed that a reversal of the situation had begun, but that not everyone is where they would like to be. I indicated that it was also important for me that the safety culture should reach the highest level expected. We agreed that in the fall I would visit Tihange to encourage employees responsible for our safety day after day. Apart from our different political views on nuclear energy, I think you agree with me that these people are doing a very important job. I hope to contribute to awareness; that is my commitment. After all, professional pride and precision go hand in hand. I think Electrabel's management is serious about this, but things take time. Influencing everyone's behavior in the chain is a challenge. I offered to participate in this myself and we will proceed immediately, for example in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u38	Fortunately, management is aware of the problem and the issue. The opposite would have been disturbing. I appreciate your way of presenting things and getting involved. We've been to Tihange before, remember? This time, you'll go with a message for all staff. Each of its members is doing a very important job. My understanding of the country's energy future is nothing in relation to this issue. This is another debate. But as long as nuclear power works, it must be as secure as possible. From this point of view, the deviations encountered in recent times are worrying. I find it difficult to accept the excuse for the time it takes. Because they knew it when they put their plan in place. To say, when this action plan is over, that it takes longer than expected means that the evaluation of what was to be put in place was not good either. There, responsibility is not individual, but collective. We used to say, "It's gonna pass, it's gonna be better." No, I don't! So yes, we need the minister, including to deliver the right messages on site and motivate the teams. We need to be careful about these things. We don't just have to punish. But if it's the minister's job, it's mostly that of the hierarchy. From this point of view, the gap between what was expected and what has been achieved means that you will have to keep paying attention because we are still far from being in a situation without incidents related to what we have already experienced in terms of a safety culture.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u39	Mr Nollet, after the completion of an action plan, comes the time for its implementation on the ground. These are two distinct phases. The results come later. I give an example: when one gives a course every month, one starts an action on a school year and the result is collected later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u40	Minister, I agree. The fact is that we cannot afford to wait ten years until the actions are actually implemented. In ten years, these plants will be closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u41	Minister, we know that the concrete (and concrete reinforcement) of the ultimate rescue buildings of the Doel 3 and Tihange 3 reactors is failing. Tests are planned to see what's going on with Tihange 2 and Doel 4. But what about the concrete of buildings that accommodate spent fuel pools? Has a concrete quality test already been performed? If so, what are the results of these tests for each of the pools concerned? If not, when are these tests planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u42	Mr Nollet, the condition of the concrete structures in the buildings hosting the fuel pools is regularly monitored by the operator. This control is part of the normal maintenance and inspection programme for buildings performing a safety function as prescribed by the nuclear facilities regulations. As I have already explained to you in the answers to previous questions, the problems found at Doel 3 and Tihange 3, in the premises where the exhaust valve outlet nozzles are located, are due to the particular ambient conditions of these premises, namely the heat and the presence of wet vapours. As these environmental conditions cannot occur in buildings hosting fuel pools, no additional specific tests were imposed or planned for these buildings following the discovery of problems on Doel 3 and Tihange 3 units. Indeed, the circumstances are quite different.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u43	Minister, I take note of your answer and therefore of the fact that, according to you and, above all, according to AFCN, there is no risk in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u44	Minister, this is my last question for today and for this legislative year. It concerns the serious sabotage suffered by Doel 4 in August 2014. In a few days we will "feel" the four years of this serious incident. As I do every year, I want to take stock with you, which I also do with the Minister of Justice. Minister, what is the status of the investigation? Are the author(s) finally known? Have the measures in place been evaluated? If so, what did this evaluation give? If not, is it not appropriate now to take some time to evaluate these measures? Have the measures put in place been adjusted in the past year? If so, what adjustment? Finally, how do you analyze this delicate situation of a functioning power plant, when the authors are still unknown and at large?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u45	Mr Nollet, as regards the progress of the investigation, I refer you to the Minister of Justice, who is responsible for the matter. As I have already told you, the operators have taken additional steps to prevent such an event from happening again. These measures were then evaluated and will also be evaluated in the future through an inspection program. The measures are assessed and adjusted according to the situation on the ground, but also according to the evolution of the threats and problems identified. However, I cannot provide you with additional information for obvious reasons of confidentiality. In this case, as part of its mission to protect the population, the environment and workers from the dangers of ionizing radiation, the role of the AFCN is to prevent such an event from occurring. Nothing new at this level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u46	Minister, they usually say, "No news, good news." In this case, unfortunately, I do not believe that this is the case, since four years later, the perpetrator(s) and the motive for this sabotage are still unknown. It's a matter of concern. This took place at a nuclear power plant. I will, as you suggest, also question your colleague the Minister of Justice. Nevertheless, admit with me that four years later, still not knowing anything, it is not the most reassuring! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic947x.u47	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van der Maelen has converted 26559 into a written question.
