ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u1	We'll continue the hearing. Professor De Vos, Professor Mattelaer, Professor Matthijs and Professor Terryn, welcome you to the hearing on the F-16 file. It is certainly interesting that the academic world also sheds light on the dossier. Professor De Vos, I suggest you take the floor first.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u2	Madam President, I will try to deal with three problems. I realize you've heard a lot. So part of it will be repetition. However, I will stress a number of points. The first problem is whether it is appropriate to fly longer with our F-16s. Better formulated: should we postpone our decision? The second question is whether four senior officers are responsible for withholding relevant information. The third question is whether the Minister and the CHOD knew of relevant information. I understand from this morning's hearing that a long extension is no longer a real option. I had prepared that long extension, but I will therefore drop that point and talk about the short-term instead, which means postponing the decision. We must never forget that we still have to use the F-16 for ten years anyway, i.e. until 2028. We can't get out of that, no matter what we do. Training in the United Kingdom or in the United States of America, after all, we do not know which aircraft will normally start in 2023. The first new aircraft will join us in 2025 and the last in 2030. You have, of course, already read and heard this in the many documents and during the many speeches. For a long time, until May 2017, the ideas at the Air Component went in the same direction, also with lieutenant colonel engineer Rudy Decrop. I read from the e-mail of 19 May 2017: "To use 8 000 equivalent flight hours as a criterion for take-off, we must have a flight recorder on every F-16." Secondly, Lockheed Martin delivers with this document, the famous document that has caused the necessary fuss and that I have brought, not a formal guarantee, but only a force structure projection. The third sentence is the most important. "In the past, it has been proven on several occasions that Lockheed Martin in no way guarantees that no unforeseen structural modifications need to be carried out in order to achieve the stated service life objective." You are surprised that I quote that in Dutch, while Decrop is French. That's correct. He wrote this in Dutch and his chef Letten, Dutch speaking, replied in French. I think this is only possible with the DOD. "Thank you for keeping me informed of Lockheed Martin's responses to your request for clarification." That's about the e-mail from May 10th. Until then one always sees the same way of thinking. The postponement of a decision has advantages and disadvantages. Hendrik Bogaert has put them together again this morning and I have done so many times. I also read the bloggers. In addition to incorrect information, they also mentioned and distributed some good things so that you could be informed. The decision was taken in the nuclear cabinet of 22 December 2015 on the basis of the famous IKW document of 9 November 2015, which counts 35 pages. I'm going back a little bit in time. In 2013, Pieter De Crem, then Secretary of Defense, told us to replace those planes. In 2014 a new government will be set up and it says in the government: we are going to replace the planes. Steven Vandeput becomes, almost coincidentally, Minister of Defense and questions the matter. He's asking if we're just gonna do that. He comes from the commercial environment and asks if we can't lease them or replace some of them or buy occasional planes. All these things are being raised and different groups are going to work. It is indeed important that you know where all this information came from. I also noticed that the representative of Ecolo rightly said that 11 of the 35 pages are devoted to the extension. So it's really been considered. If we have 35 pages here I've seen a lot of IKWJS and explained in my life, given my age, you should know that those 35 pages are the result of hundreds of pages. One goes to an IKW so that the others would be aware. Two pages are usually essential, namely the first two pages. Sometimes there is even one sentence in yellow, because it must not be forgotten. The problem is that the document will be made in 2015, but the situation is constantly changing. That is a very big problem for a document that extends over time. We know it's about many years. They've taken a path. I have to admit that I have also had a lot of doubts. What got me across the bridge is that this morning, for the first time, it has been seriously addressed, and that is the quality of the Russians' modern air defenses. Everything can indeed be brought back to the conflict in South Ossetia and Abkhazia in 2008. Georgia used Western resources, but in a very bad way. The Russians have seen what these resources can do and have adapted their entire system accordingly. Now they have a particularly performant air defense, based on very good radars. Probably the only solution to disable those radars is to blind them. That is probably the only solution, which has also been addressed here under General Vansina. That actually makes it urgent, because the problem is that Russian weapons will be sold. Russia's only performing industry, outside the raw materials industry, is the arms industry. Those weapons will be sold and distributed. Today, the problem only arises where the Russians are, and the Russians are not our enemies. I'll say that immediately. However, the weapons will be sold and we will be faced with them. That makes it quite urgent. So after 2025, our plane is probably no longer usable in large parts of the world. But remember my dates: the first will be delivered in 2025, the last in 2030. Those Suchojs will also be sold, don't make any illusions about that. That's the best they've got. The Soviet Union had a powerful arms industry. The fridges didn't work out, the cars didn't work out. But the weapons were good and very standardized, where they are far from standardized with us. But that's another problem. A second reason: postponing is detrimental to the competition. The F-35A, which Belgium might buy, has been weakened by the many criticisms. There's a report from the Israelis that's destructive. There is a report from the British, but of course they also have the Eurofighter, so one can have reservations about their criticism. They say they were thinking of replacing their Harrier on their aircraft carriers with the F-35B, but there's nothing missing. Today, about 300 F-35s have been produced and distributed to the different countries. A large part of it will only be good to practice or to act as a statue for the entrance of a barracks. Germany intended to purchase the F-35. However, they are doubting. The chief of the Luftwaffe had to resign. Canada is even a participant in the development programme, but now says it will organise a competition like the Belgians in 2019. They ask us, Belgians, to give them our book because they think it is a very interesting book and they would also like to use it. It's a typical book based on assignments. We usually made purchases based on engineering studies. This is from the assignments. Of course, engineers have cooperated. Pilots held the pen here in the first place and then asked for the help of the engineers. The United Kingdom wanted to use type B for their aircraft carriers. Type C's better. That's for the classic Carrier. You know, the British carriers have a pretty short landing point and a bow. They almost have to go vertical, like the Harrier did. The Eurofighter Typhoon sees its opportunity and proposes a very performant almost new plane. The Typhoon we know is that of the British, the Germans, the Italians and the Spanish, but what they propose is much better. They hope that those countries that have doubts will change their minds. The problem with the Eurofighter is that they have only produced 600 more in service. The F-35 is planned for more than 3 000. In these cases, the law of the number is important. It looks like the Americans want to sell an F-35A/Block-4 to Belgium for a very good price, a much better price than they sell it to the countries that cooperate with them. We made an estimate. We think they would sell around 80 million euros while the Dutch would pay 130 million euros. British and Germans with their Eurofighter also offer us a state-of-the-art plane, on paper, at a particularly good price. Conclusion: Anyone who wants to favour Lockheed Martin must plead for a short extension. If they are given a few more years, the problems will be resolved in the short term and they will be very strong, although I have my reservations. I myself believe, after many conversations with people who know more about it than I do, that technically the dazzling of the radar is probably a better solution than the stealth. Whatever of them, if we follow Lockheed Martin, they'll go by the register twice. Once with a small update of the F-16's and a second time with more expensive sales of the F-35A, because there is no more competition. Maybe this explains Lockheed Martin's conflicting communication. I would remind you that the first operational aircraft on our base can only arrive in 2025 and the last one in 2030. The F-16 will serve until 2028 anyway. That's the planning. The second point is the responsibility of the four officers. They had to resign after the leaked mail about a possible extension of the lifespan. That's very hard on those people. They're all former students of mine. They're all handsome students. As you know, I was both in Leuven and in the military school prof. These are handsome people, Vansina, Van Pee, very handsome people. Colonel-flyer Harold Van Pee is head of the evaluation team and has 33 men under him. Half of them are engineers, the other half are pilots, economists, and there are even three citizens of the Federal Public Service Economy. They're on the sixth floor of the staff block, away from the Air Force staff. They're compartmentalized. I went to see how that works, I wanted to see because they can tell all kinds of things. He actually has nothing to do with the discussion between the engineers of equipment management. My own brother is a polytechnician who later made a career in Sony's research. I also talked to my brother about those things. So they work in isolation, and that was the Minister's explicit intention. I've met the minister, and I've known all the ministers of defense since Freddy Vreven. From different parties they have appointed me, one to lecturer, the other to professor, another to ordinary professor and so on. Mr Hellings, it is true that most ministers work with a head of the cabinet who is a filter. It's different with Steven Vandeput. Steven Vandeput comes from a small family business and wants to do a lot of himself. He is extremely diligent and has a lot of commitment. There are certain things he does directly, with certain persons. The head of the cabinet then has a rather large domain. He took out the case of the follow-up. He said that a think tank was going to study that and that no one was allowed to deal with it, neither was he. He wanted to see the result in the end and then he would confront them. They had to defend that. Then he would go to the government, first to the core and then to the Council of Ministers. There could be something completely different from the choice of the military. The geostrategic also plays a major role. Who will be our friend in 20 or 30 years? That's not obvious. Colonel Harold Van Pee actually has nothing to do with that case. Of course, he knew the file very well. He's an intelligent boy, not an engineer, but a man of numbers. Normally he's rather reserved, certainly not exuberant. He has probably also discussed things here that are not part of his domain, because he knows the file very well. I can imagine. His only mistake; he's in Colonel Decrop's e-mail, but he doesn't know it. I've also checked to see if he's on Colonel Decrop's nomination committee. That is not the case either. That is important in the army, you should never forget: the wage differentials are not large, but there is a great deal of importance attached to the rank that is on the uniform. It's almost a dysfunction. I was raised in the army as a cadet, went to military school and also to Germany. I'm never gonna forget that in Germany, my rank in the Belgian army was spoken of as "grade" on my bell, that is, Lieutenant De Vos. They attach an abnormally great importance to this. A second matter that engineers attach great importance to is the job they are allowed to perform. Of course, it's fantastic to be able to manage the F-16. Colonel Letten was already involved in the Carapace program as a captain. Those men live for that. It's a permanent thrill that's worth a lot of money. I never really understood what Colonel Van Pee was doing there. Anyway, it is what it is. The second colonel engineer Peter Letten was the direct chief of Decrop and wanted to remain in the politically elected decision of the nuclear cabinet of 22 December 2015. I checked. This has been confirmed by four decisions in the Council of Ministers, two votes in Parliament, a vote in the Committee on Army Purchases and Sales, hearings of which some were very interesting, such as those of 20 April 2016. That document is really worth it. It's a nice summary. There were 118 parliamentary questions. Some questions have been asked a number of times, but that is another problem. I've also made inquiries. Letten was the direct chief of Decrop. So he had to take notes and write evaluations. Turns out that was good. Yet Decrop, who occurred for the first time, has not been appointed. Do not forget, for example, that none of the candidate lieutenant colonels who wanted to be colonel were appointed from the first time. Why? The army's getting smaller. They're gonna have to work longer. You can't name like you used to. Of course, that's hard. But I always say that lieutenant colonel is already a very fine rank. Whether you're Colonel, General or Professor, retirement is the same for everyone. Major General Luc Roelandts, who we've seen here, is the public procurement man. He may have something to do with it in the long run, but not at the time of the crisis in my view. Major General Frederik Vansina, Chief of the Air Force, is of course the Chief of the Air Force and I can understand among Air Force officers that one is inclined to inform him. It is, of course, remarkable that the engineer Yves Dupont, of the Navy, not the Air Component and French speaking, was not informed by Decrop. Sometimes it is not bad that someone from another power, who is completely outside of it, is also warned. So you avoid looking in the same direction. There's a certain logic in it. Also the ultimate chief, Lieutenant General and engineer Rudy Debaene of the Army, has not been notified. He too is of another power and could be interesting. Not because they know the subject technically. It's not because you're an engineer that you know all that. The third point: did the minister and the CHOD know about the existence of a memo by Lockheed Martin of 26 April 2017? I analyzed that memo pretty well. Two pages are a repeat of the question. There are a number of hand signs on the second page. Then there is one page real explanation about the equivalent flight hours of the F-16/Block-15. Then there are two pages of graphs, a list of 27 aircraft and the average is that 1 hour is equal to 0.85. There are a few that are seriously worn out, for example the FA 066. That memo is a typical discussion among engineers. There have been measuring devices on 16 aircraft since 2006, but I would remind you that the oldest aircraft we have left in service dates back to 1982. We have sold our oldest aircraft long ago, including to Jordan. At the time we sold our Mirages to Chile and our F-104G to Turkey when Turkey was not yet a rich country. The senior officers want to stick to the political decision and not question anything. After all, when something is questioned, everything begins again. However, a staff officer must always have a plan B. In that sense, I understand Mr Decip. Assuming that the government falls and that no decision is taken, then there must be a longer flight with the F-16. He's probably also a bit in love with the F-16; that's not imaginary. He is also unhappy about lowering the level of ambition. That's actually a little political, among us. That was also mentioned here, but I had already written it before I heard it here this morning. My conclusion is that not everything has to go to the highest echelon, because that leads to paralysis, to no decision or to too late. Something very interesting has happened in the Committee of Inquiry into the attacks in Zaventem and Maalbeek of 22 March 2016. In that committee it was stated that the information is not sufficiently transmitted to the highest echelon. The head of the federal police, Catherine De Bolle, stated a few months later that she got everything and could hardly decide because she didn't know all the files in detail. She said she had to deal with certain issues that she should have answered by now. So we must also pay attention. We can't go back to our great-grandparents' army, where everything went to the top and where the base was just running. Responsible for all echelons are important. It is, of course, sometimes difficult to weigh what should or should not be passed on. Every now and then a mistake will be made. However, it is a choice between paralysis of the summit and occasionally a wrong decision. Here I personally think it was a typical discussion among engineers. Probably wouldn't have been a bad thing if this had happened to Yves Dupont, for example. My general conclusion is this. Let the evaluation committee do its job. The government will decide and the geostrategic will play a major role in this. Then you will vote, because you have the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity to speak today. I would like to take this opportunity to consider three issues: the past policy preparation of the F-16 dossier as it stands today, the policy preparation for what is emerging in the future and the relationship between, on the one hand, the replacement debate and, on the other hand, the nuclear task of the F-16 fleet. My conclusion to all of this, for the record, is that we must not shy away from the debate but look forward to what the future will bring. First of all, let's start in the past! You may recall that the discussion on the F-16 file had already begun in the previous legislature. At that time, there was already a divergence of political views on the replacement or maintenance of aircraft. In accordance with the 2011 government agreement, it was indeed a matter of thinking about the long-term replacement of major equipment. The time line perfectly illustrates the fact that, for Belgium, it is the multinational logic that is the main driving force behind the F-16 debate, much more than the technical discussions about the life of the fleet and its operational relevance. You know by now that our F-16s, and Belgium as a country, are part of the so-called Multinational Fighter Program (MNFP). You can see here on the slides that a kind of replacement train started moving from 2011. In 2011, Norway was the first country to deal with this issue. In September 2013 the Netherlands followed, and a few months later Minister De Crem gave that important speech to which my colleague De Vos already referred. In 2014 the coalition agreement came. The Danes made their final decision in June 2016, and in March 2017 our RfGP procedure began to run. One by one, decisions were made that will ensure that the highly successful MNFP consortium will inevitably fall apart over the next decade and that new user groups will form at the same time. In other words, if Belgium wants to continue to anchor itself with a high-quality air force in a multinational context, a decision is called for. What amazes me a little today is that the debate did not break out with such intensity until almost five years after the start of the preparation of the policy. As you can see by looking at the slide, a long series of exchanges of views has already taken place. We organized a study afternoon at the university in February 2014 on the future of air weapons. More recently, the so-called Wise Pen ministerial initiative and the New Year's speech by the Chief of Defence, General Compernol, took place. Unfortunately – I regret – the interest in this type of initiative has remained rather limited. Even in Parliament, in 2015, hearings on defence and market prospecting were held in the presence of the various candidates. Moreover, all these debates were held in the context of a political commitment to increase our defence effort, after decades of savings. It should also be noted that our contributions to the collective defence of Europe are followed by a rather critical eye by our international partners. However, let us look ahead: what does the future bring? In the present legislature, the attention given to the modernisation of large arms systems in the defence debate is understandable. The military programme law and the budget for 2018 are the most striking examples of this. However, the F-16 dossier is part of a much wider whole, namely the question of what the target structure of the Belgian Defence Office should look like for the future. I would like to come back to that, not only because the human resources situation has become very worrying, but also because clarity about the replacement of the F-16s is a necessary condition for a coherent vision of the future of our military structure. We already know the figures of the demographic situation of the population. They are extremely alarming, and I weigh my words! The essential component is that one third of our active military are under 40 years of age and the personnel pyramid will continue to collapse, even if we recruit in large numbers as planned. When we listen to the staff, labour organizations and operational units, there is a great deal of concern about this. I expect that the number of men and women in uniform in the early 2020s is likely to fall below the 25 000 men and women in uniform and that, after that, it will start to grow very laboriously. To be honest, I believe that we will need a broader personnel structure to meet our national needs and our international obligations, focusing on the possibility of re-creating a ground component structure into three brigades. Within the Defence budget, the debate is of course financially related to the F-16 replacement, but there is also an important link with uncertainty, because air combat capacity is, relatively speaking, less staff intensive than the other combat capabilities. As far as the future is concerned, both an F-35 fleet and a Eurofighter Typhoon fleet will require fewer technical personnel than the current F-16 fleet, as well as more management in partenariat with industry. In both optimistic and pessimistic forecasts of the personnel situation, the Belgian air combat capability, if replaced, can continue to constitute an operational and diplomatic asset. This does not mean, therefore, that we must continue to use this capacity at every turn: restraint in the use of military power is always appropriate. In my opinion, the most valuable use of military power is not the operational one, but the one to prevent military conflict. This brings me to my third and final point, the issue of nuclear deterrents. In recent weeks, many comments have been made on the alleged role of nuclear power in the ongoing replacement procedure. First of all, I will clarify the procedure under way. The RfGP does not require the provision of dual-capacity aircraft. However, this option may appear in the further development of the new weapons system. To my knowledge, this was a conscious choice in the drafting of the RfGP, in order to allow competition as open as possible, in the interest of the negotiations in Belgium. On the basis of the information in my possession, I assume that both offers indicate that DCA's role was an option from a political and industrial point of view. On the basis of the discussion in Germany about the replacement of the Tornado, it can be concluded that giving the Eurofighter a double capacity is a realistic and even probable option. For the time being, and most importantly, the question of nuclear power is completely independent of the decision to replace it. Somewhere in the future, not in the next legislature, but perhaps in the subsequent one, that fundamental question does arise. I am a little concerned that the debate on this is being presented on a rather one-sided basis, as if it were perfectly natural that we should give up our DCA role. In my opinion, this is anything but self-evident. Allow me briefly to give just two arguments which are often lacking in the debate. Firstly, avoiding intra-European nuclear proliferation is at the historical basis of nuclear sharing within the alliance. This may be a historical argument, but sharing nuclear responsibilities also raises the question of what comes next. Of course, those in favour of disarmament see this as a step towards that goal, but I do not think it is right that I should once again rule out the fact that more eastern European allies have very different views on it in the present security environment. From a Belgian point of view, it is also important to distinguish on the one hand the advisability of nuclear weapons and on the other hand the desirability of nuclear sharing. The main purpose of nuclear sharing is to multilateralize the debate on NATO's nuclear posture. By definition, we have no decision on the national decisions of Washington, London and Paris. But as a member of the nuclear planning group, we can make our voice heard about NATO's position with regard to nuclear power as a whole, which is currently evolving. The fundamental question on the maintenance of the role in DCA is therefore the following: is Belgium opting for a scenario in which we sit down at the table, in which the Alliance's position on nuclear energy is the subject of a multilateral debate, in which we, together with our German, Dutch and Italian friends, can slow down when we deem it necessary; or should our country opt for a scenario in which the fundamental decisions within the Alliance are taken by the major powers without us being consulted? Do we abandon the Harmel tradition? If there is an interest in Parliament to continue the discussion in the future, regardless of the replacement debate, I fully agree that it is an important discussion to be held, I am always prepared to participate in it. Thank you for your attention. Thank you very much. Of course, all questions are welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u4	Professor Matthijs, may I invite you to speak as a third professor?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, I am not going to repeat what my two predecessors have already said. If I go back in history, to the golden seventies, then there was also a whole discussion about the purchase of the century. I've been through the military sale of the century twice in my life in the '70s when I was in high school and now again. Then the discussion was indeed about the F-17, the Mirage F1 and the Saab Viggen. Eventually it became the F-16 because we joined a consortium with the Netherlands, Denmark and Norway. There were also a lot of questions about the F-16. The F-16 by Lockheed Martin, also the parent company of the F-35, were then questioned a lot. People didn't like that, too revolutionary. They would, like the Starfighters, fall down more than just keep flying and I don't know what. It was not originally the candidate in the United States either. The then governments of Nixon and Ford, Republican governments, actually wanted another plane. It was the democratic congress that dragged through the F-16. Thus the F-16 has been taken into account. So it's a story that's been old for some time. However, if you compare the F-16 with all the aircraft that the Belgian Air Force had previously, I have to say that the plane went very long and well. From a budgetary point of view, therefore, we certainly cannot complain about this F-16. A lot of questions have been asked today and I will not repeat what else is going on in this discussion. In 1979, Belgium was the first country to have a full squadron of F-16s with the Little Brogel Air Base. I remember that, because he was there as a young guest himself. I remember the Air Force Base was half-full of Dutch people because they had never seen that plane before. We were the first to have a full squadron. That was a revolutionary plane back in 1979. At the moment we still have 55 or 56. Originally, we had 160. At that time we actually joined a consortium with the other countries, which certainly did not give us any budgetary support. However, to get back to the current dossier, we have dropped out. Where the Netherlands, Norway and Italy have participated in the economic development phase of new aircraft, we have done nothing. We certainly have a disadvantage there, especially in economic terms and in terms of technological knowledge. We did not do that, and that was a political choice. What we have rightly done in the case of Airbus's new products and also in the case of the European Space Agency, we have not done in this area. Then there's been a long time talking about keeping the F-16 in the air longer. I am not a pilot or an engineer, but I have put everything I have found in Parliament's archives back on my table and ranked it chronologically. Then I think that in a previous government, the tripartite before 2014, decisions have already been taken on the need to replace the F-16. Before that, there was a government that had already said that Mr Mattelaer pointed out that there was a need to replace the nuclear weapons on Kleine-Brogel, a political decision taken by the Lefévre-Spaak government in the 1960s, but no Belgian government has said to this day: we will stop doing so. In the end, this is also in the government programme. The tripartite with Elio Di Rupo as Prime Minister has also signed the Wales Summit Declaration. This means that by 2024, we would go to 2% of GDP for defence expenditure. We are now at 0.9 %. The top 29 of the NATO Member States are 29 Montenegro and 28 Belgium. If we were ever to reach 2% by 2024, our budget would have to go twice. I do not know how this will be budgetary and politically possible. Also in the December 2015 nuclear cabinet, it is clearly stated that, as has already been said by Mr De Vos, new aircraft must be built. Then there is indeed an interesting committee here in April 2016. If you read that report correctly, and certainly the annexes, there is no indication that the F-16 should stay in the air any longer. Everyone's talking about new planes there. Then we'll go one step further. Given the very low investment value in Defence, the law of 23 May 2017 on military programming for the period up to 2030 of 9.2 billion euros is finally adopted here in 2017. If you read the annexes to that law correctly, it says: 3.5 billion euros for the purchase of 34 new fighter aircraft and the final upgrade of the current F-16s for the period 2017-2023. I did not hear a lot of comments on this until December 2017 when the 2018 expenditure budget is voted on in this House. Then it is very clear that the sum of the commitment appropriations for defence is almost EUR 10 billion higher than last year. So there was the political intention that a number of very important military purchase files should be settled this year. Otherwise, the level of commitment appropriations will not be increased, which, moreover, have an impact on the budget but on the long term, because only the payment appropriations will have an impact on the actual year. I have found little discussion on this in all the reports. I will not comment on the technical possibility of keeping the plane in the air for longer, but I have spent the last few years dealing with military budgets and I have published on this. What is striking is that this purchase procedure, namely the replacement of the F-16, was a particularly open and transparent procedure compared to the past. Then the demand arises for the cost of the new fighter planes. I do not know which of the two planes is going to be bought, but to begin with, that has partly to do with what the offer is. What the builder wants to offer as a cost price also has to do with the monetary value and the exchange differences between the coins. It is now convenient that the euro is stronger than the dollar and that the British pound has fallen in value. That's an advantage for us, I think. Another striking fact is, and this has been learned around the F-16, that one has every interest in being in the highest possible package in terms of the upgrade costs, which will certainly be there in the long run. With the F-16 we were around 4,000 and had very small upgrade costs. We had to pay a value of 60 to 70, sometimes 100, at 4 000. Mirage F1 and Saab Viggen only sold a few hundred planes. The figures have already been mentioned. Eurofighter and Rafale will also run around 600. That must be taken into account in the long term. The numbers have an enormous budgetary impact. Can we calculate exactly what an aircraft will cost in the long term? The 2017 Military Investment Act states that only 3.5 billion euros of new aircraft have been purchased, including the latest upgrade of current F-16s. The rest is very difficult to calculate. It's sometimes said 10, 15 or 20 billion. I think that this is in addition to the issue because it is not possible to calculate it in the long term. For example, who knew in 1979 that an F-16 would fly on GPS less than 20 years later? We're at the fifth generation combat equipment now. What will the sixth give? This one will be more revolutionary than today. I have been in the Supreme Council of Finance for 15 years, so if I were told that the cost of a new aircraft would be 15 to 20 billion, however much the calculations may be, I must say that it is not yet possible in this country to determine exactly what the budget deficit will be and what economic growth will be for the next year. If you take the figures for the last 12 months, they are all wrong, with the ultimate figures. And then one would calculate the cost of new combat equipment over the next 20 to 25 years? That seems to me to be a very delicate operation, with a lot of questions to ask. I believe that purely budgetary considerations must be taken into account only in terms of the purchase value. What comes afterwards with additional costs for maintenance and operation, that will tell the time. We live in the fourth industrial revolution. There'll be a fifth soon. There's gonna be something very important technologically going on with those planes. What also strikes me is that this discussion not only rages on our part, but also in Canada, for example, as has been mentioned here. In Canada, however, there is another factor involved. Canada has never been in the F-16 story with Lockheed Martin. One of the reasons for this is that Canada has theoretically always been with the Super Hornet, the F/A-18. They'd rather get on another plane. Whether the F-35 is a good plane or a bad one, I'll leave it in the middle. I can only conclude that some European countries eventually bought that plane. Italy has done a good thing, as has the Netherlands, Norway, Denmark and ultimately the British. The Eurofighter will eventually remain a German-Spanish and perhaps still part British story. That must also be taken into account. Suppose we chose a different plane than the Netherlands, what will happen to military cooperation with the Netherlands, on which we have used a great deal in recent years? I also note that in the United States, in the Congressional Budget Office, the US Congressional Budget Watchdog, which we do not have, but also in the US Court of Auditors, reports have been made on the F-35. The reports of these two institutions also contradict each other. It's often about other types of the F-35. Last week, for example, a new type was tested and approved at Utah Air Force Base. It is often unclear what it is really about. I will conclude, Madam President. It has been debated for a long time in this country, which is the right of the majority and opposition, but in fine terms we live in a parliamentary democracy, in which there is a government that lives on the basis of a parliamentary majority. It must be a golden rule that in a democracy the primacy of politics is the majority with democratic legitimacy. I believe that it is the best decision on this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u6	Thank you, Professor Matthijs. Finally, Professor Terryn will speak. I understand you're a material-technical expert.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u7	Let me introduce myself. I'm a professor at VUB and TU Delft. I'm a material expert. Especially in the Netherlands there is a rather large material knowledge institute. I am a cluster leader there for the lifetime of materials and the estimation of the extension of life. Much shorter than my predecessors, I will say that I have seen nothing abnormal in this dossier, in the sense that what one is trying to do is to assess the material. They try to do this through experiments, they try to do it by accelerated tests, by artificially aging the material. There are a lot of tests for that. More recently, and I believe this is the difficulty in this dossier, many sensors have been added that are now being used. As science evolves, there are more and more models where one tries to find correlations. In view of the lifespan of this aircraft, the way in which one monitors, the way in which one follows things, I believe, is also the case in this dossier. In all sectors, not only those of military aircraft but in all applications, we are trying to assess the materials. That is what we are trying to do in the automotive sector, and that is what we are trying to do in civil aviation, and that is what we are trying to do here. Except I think the safety issues are bigger here. I'm trying to demonstrate this with one example. Due to the implementation of technologies, chromium 6+ should not be legally used for corrosion protection, except for aviation. The criteria have been postponed there. In 2017, they had to be introduced through REACH, but this was postponed to 2023. I'm one of the people who's gonna follow this up. I am also one of the people who succeeds this for Airbus. There are two external experts. This has been postponed because they are concerned that the possible implementation would mean that the maintenance costs will increase considerably and also the safety issues. In my view, it is not a question of safety, but of the number of inspections to be carried out, of monitoring the material. In that sense, therefore, this dossier does not seem to me to be a material dossier, but rather, as the predecessors have said, a different one. I think the two thoughts are possible. On the one hand, I think that the material can have a longer lifespan and that this can be followed up. Then the question is how that should be followed. On the other hand, there is the thought trail of the new planes. It is much better to assess how they can behave because the materials are newer and can be better followed. That's what the discussion is about. That's also the point I wanted to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u8	I would like to thank the four speakers for their contribution. I am pleased to be able to discuss the fundamental issues. Do we need fighters? How urgent is this purchase? I would like to park the debate on the possible influence of the political decision-making process here. We had hearings on it last week and today. I'd like to talk to you about the substance of the case. I am surprised that all four of you have so little open up the debate and so little broad approach. Let me give you an example. Mr De Vos, you say that you have studied the debate and that what you have achieved was the Russian threat and the assessment of Russian material.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u9	It is, of course, the case that we can open this debate through questions and answers. It had been made clear to me that the debate was about this and that I had to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u10	I just got there. The debate is not sufficiently opened. I particularly miss the European perspective in your story. You pretend that the Russian material poses a potential risk to which Belgium must respond. I don't understand. Europe must respond, NATO must respond, but not Belgium. Then I come to the second illustration. Mr Mattelaer, you say that we spend too little on the defence sector. That's right, I agree: we don't spend enough money on defense. But if we spend too little on Defense, should we replace our F-16s? Is there a straight line there? You barely went into that. For me, there is no logical link whatsoever between the objective of increasing the budget for defence and replacing our F-16s within a few months, by the way, because that is the period we are talking about. If everything goes as planned, the Minister will go to the Council of Ministers with a proposal for a decision within a few months. If there's a Russian threat, should we replace our F-16s? There's no logical connection between them either, is there? I am sorry that the debate is being held so closely and that this European and international dimension is missing. I want to ask a rhetorical question. Does Europe need a fighting capacity in the air force? Yes. Does NATO need an operationally high-quality combat capability in the Air Force? Yes. That is what the debate should be about. The next step is then what role Belgium can play in this. However, there is no logical link between the objective of having a performanceant, international western defence alliance, whether European or NATO, and the purely Belgian decision to replace the F-16s. That connection may be there, but it doesn't have to be. As scientists, I would have expected you to tackle that question first and then come to that more political Belgian decision that we have to make. Besides, the Dutch will have F-35s. I hear that this is already becoming an argument that Belgium should also have F-35s. That's not right at all. If that argument is true, then this means that any international military operation with combat equipment can only happen with the same type of combat equipment. But a lot of military operations happen with many different fighters, from different countries. They're interoperable. The fact that the Netherlands will have F-35s is certainly not a decisive argument for me. Then there is the European perspective. I base myself on the data of the SIPRI, a respectable think tank. It says that the European countries supply 2 300 combat equipment. We do not talk about aircraft, because I know the counter argument. The SIPRI doesn't talk about exercise planes. There are 2 300 European aircraft. The American aircraft are not included. Russia has 1 000 aircraft. We could say that if each European country decides to replace its fighters, we will be left with that surplus. You know that Russia will not go from 1 000 to 2 300 aircraft. That is not planned at all. If each country in the European Union had the close Belgian debates that we are constantly having here, nothing will happen. This is my point about the capacity gaps in Europe. The European Defence Agency has a number of capacity gaps. Right now, combat equipment isn't part of those capability gaps. There are other gaps, which the operation in Libya has proven. What I miss is this. I agree that we need to invest more in Defense. However, with this sum of EUR 3.5 billion, we could make a better choice for defence in the short term. That is why there is this urgency that we are dealing with here. I repeat that if we do not stop this, Professor Matthijs, you are absolutely right; it will be the majority who will decide whether or not to proceed with the purchase dossier and the majority will not stand in the way of the Minister, we will have a decision in two or three months' time to buy one of the remaining two candidate combat equipment. You know the budgetary situation of our country. It is not that we will spend another EUR 3.5 billion on another capacity in 2019. That's not gonna happen. How long does a new kind of combat device last? If we buy 34 devices, they last 40 years. So we will not even buy 30 or 40 new fighters in ten years' time. Why is the time Lockheed Martin gives us so important? I know there are differences of opinion on this, but at the moment the balance is firmly moving towards the fact that we are likely to have six more years if we keep those 8 000 hours of flight time, but we simply convert them into account, taking into account the low operating intensity of our aircraft in Belgium. In that case, we will have six more years. This means that we do not have to decide in two months' time, but we have six more years. This also means that we should not make a choice between a mainly British initiative within the framework of European Defence and Brexit, where questions can be asked. Nor does that mean that we must be forced towards the F-35, whose technical problems are immense. One message after another is stacking up. A lot of countries are already dropping out. In that constellation, the purchasing process is completely sub-optimal, even apart from the Lockheed Martin file and possible influence. So we have a little more time to make a more sensible choice. That is my appeal, including to the members of the majority. I would like to know your opinion on this. There is also a German-French initiative in the scaffolding when it comes to fighting equipment. It is in the medium term, but I think there will be better options in a few years' time, if we want to buy combat equipment, and this is beyond the fact that there may be other capabilities, capacity gaps, in which we have to invest. Mr Mattelaer, as a bouncer, I would like to say a few words about nuclear proliferation. That is a very interesting and very politically sensitive debate, as you know. We can agree that we must avoid nuclear proliferation worldwide. I think you also agree, albeit multilaterally and with the efforts of all players, especially Russia. You also know that there is little movement in nuclear disarmament at the moment. You also know that, unless I am mistaken, it is mainly the United States that have stationed their nuclear weapons abroad. Belgium could make an important act if we, like Germany a few years ago, were to move towards the removal of these nuclear weapons from our territory. In this way, we may be able to stimulate the debate on nuclear proliferation worldwide. That's my belief. I would be happy to debate it in Parliament. You say that you are willing to make your expertise available, for which you are grateful. However, it is very unfortunate that a debate on nuclear weapons on Belgian territory is impossible in Parliament because no one wants to admit that there are American nuclear weapons on Belgian soil.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u11	Madam President, Professors, after Mr De Vriendt's question, I would like to refute a few points. Mr De Vriendt, you are surprised that the debate is not being opened. After the hearings last week and today, I think that the four gentlemen are giving a refreshing look, giving a different angle of raid than at the previous hearings. That's my personal appreciation. I really did not expect you to open it all up to a debate we had three years ago here in Parliament following the Strategic Vision and the Programme Act. I feel put in Professor Barabas' teletime machine. That is not the intention of this hearing, I believe. I do not believe that we have asked the professors. Those 2 300 fighter planes, then, we have heard this here ten times and tried to refute them ten times. When you count all the planes that can no longer fly, which are on the ground like scrap and so on, you get 2 300. But I can tell you that with the capacity we have today on our F-16s, all the information technology, all the data gathering, all the weapon platforms, maybe 100 aircraft are flying around all over Europe. We're at the high end of what the fighter planes can do. That is the reality, but that is not reflected in the study you are talking about. This as an introduction. I have some questions. Feel free to answer them. Professor De Vos, you were right to say that those 300 F-35 devices that have already been built mainly serve as a statue and that maybe some of them fly. I'll follow you there. But if we really want to move towards a European defence, as has been said in several previous hearings, we will have to talk about our sovereignty as a country and about the one command. We will also have to talk about the fact that the European defence industry will also converge. Isn't it an opportunity to buy in Europe rather than go back to America and buy there? The thought I often hear on the street is that if we have to buy something, we have to buy something European, to make a statement. What's your opinion on that? By enlargement, NATO is what it is today, but if there are US presidents like Trump in the next few years, I think NATO will look different in 20 years' time. Isn't it? I would like to get your vision on how NATO will evolve over the next 40 years. I have one more question. Will new technology be available in the future? Professor Matthijs, you already gave a future perspective. Are there any technologies that make it worth waiting for new aircraft to be purchased? Drones, for example. The convention between manned and unmanned. About the nuclear capacity, then. I found it very interesting, Professor Mattelaer, that you spoke for a moment. You know that we do not ask for nuclear capacity in the RfGP. We're not asking for it. But is for you nuclear capacity simply preserving the American nuclear capacity on an air base, but not nuclear capacity on our aircraft? I mean, a Dutch or an American plane can pick them up there. Can we also maintain our commitment to NATO? I have a brief question for Professor Terryn. You said this is not a technical file, but the comparison with the car also applies here. As the people of Lockheed Martin said last week, an old car that one only wants to keep alive is becoming more expensive in maintenance. Moreover, they will no longer be able to find spare parts. Isn't there a moment in the lifeline based on your experiences when you say it's time to replace it? Do you have any benchmarks or comparison points that you can give us?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u12	Thank you, Professors, for explaining this. I can also agree with the previous speaker. Mr De Vriendt expressed some frustration when he noted that the professors narrowed the debate here. I disagree. I am rather of Mr Vandenput's opinion. After all, we have been talking for hours about an e-mail with a memo attached to it. Who sent it to who? That turns out to be an insignificant e-mail after all. Still, it's important to check everything out. I am pleased that the debate is being raised here and even brought to an academic level. I believe that you all consider the replacement and the current replacement programme to be at least justifiable. I have some questions. Not too much, because I found it interesting and telling in itself. This morning we heard from General Vansina that the employability of our current F-16 fleet, for example in Syria, can at this time thanks to the consultation with the Russians. The Russians' technology, labeled by Mr Van der Maelen as the no-go zones, would otherwise make it difficult to interfere in those zones. What can we conclude from this for our current F-16 fleet? How acute and problematic is the need to replace the development of surrounding technology in friendly and less friendly nations? A specific question to Professor De Vos, responding to what Mr De Vriendt said, is that we still have some time to discuss Lockheed Martin's suggestion to extend the F-16 programme. He clearly calls for a short extension. Professor De Vos actually pleads for the successor of Lockheed Martin, the F-35. Professor, could you develop that theorem even better and work out a little further in depth? What exactly do you mean by that? Professor Mattelaer, you said that a replacement is an asset on the operational front. That's pretty obvious. You also called it a diplomatic asset. Can you go into more detail on how the successor of the F-16 can be used as a diplomatic asset for our country? Professor Matthijs, did I hear a contradiction in your speech? If so, I'd like to hear confirmation. If not, I'd like to hear your argument. On the one hand, you expressed your satisfaction with the open, transparent procedure of the RfGP, which is now under way. On the other hand, you implied that you were in favour of the F-35. Can I interpret that as a contradiction? That's what I like to hear.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u13	Madam President, I too would like to thank our four speakers. I shall begin by saying that I do not agree at all with our colleague Mr. From Vriendt. Rather, I have the feeling, after hearing you, that, for the first time since the beginning of our lengthy discussions, we have reached a very high level of questioning. Nor do I agree at all with Mr. De Vriendt, which consists of returning the decision to "belgo-belge", to repeat its expression. No, our security and our defence are part of a larger whole, either with our European partners or within NATO. These are fundamental components of the decision-making process. My questions will be brief. Unless I missed it, neither of you mentioned the Rafale's French proposal. I'd like to hear from you about that. Secondly, I would like you to elaborate on your analysis, which is essential to our decision-making, of the economic benefits. In passing, I stress what Professor Mattelaer said about the importance of the multilateral nature of NATO's decision on nuclear matters. This is an essential aspect of our approach to the issue. Finally, Madam Chair, I do not have a question about this to ask Professor De Vos, but I note that this is the first time that Colonel Decrop's more personal motives have been addressed. I heard about an appointment that had not taken place, a regret expressed in some files, etc. I wanted to stress that. It is almost twenty hours since Parliament has been discussing this famous note, whose content, reasons or enthusiasm has not always been well understood in the opposition. I wanted to emphasize that, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u14	Madam President, I do not agree with the previous speaker. I agree with Mr De Vriendt's remarks. First of all, I would like to thank the speakers very much for their input. It is only a pity that the time at which this is brought here has been wrongly chosen, or that this is the wrong debate at the wrong time. However, the speakers have said that there is great transparency in the dossier. We have noticed that, for example, the IKW note, with input from the cabinet, could not be discussed and that the figures could not be verified in truth either. This has not been part of the debates in the Chambers to which several colleagues have referred, apart from the outcome that it would have had. It may well be that the result would have been the same, but it would have allowed at least another and a more complete debate. My colleagues and I have been asking for the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit on behalf of the legislative body, the Chamber, for three years and to follow it up from the beginning of the dossier. Would it not have been better if all the figures that emerged in this debate of 20 hours could be verified? That is a first question and a remark from me. Secondly, I also refer to the committee in early 2015, when a number of hearings were held. I remember Professor Mattelaer, you were there as well. We do not need to repeat this, but the circumstances have changed. The countries we work with also have an impact on this dossier. It also concerns cooperation at European level, the relationship with NATO and our obligations in this regard and how we comply with it. A second point concerns cooperation. There is, of course, a partnership in NATO, but I refer to Professor Matthijs' remark on cooperation with the Netherlands. I don't suppose one should have an exclusive F-35 to maintain the partnership with the Netherlands as it exists today. After all, everyone should have the F-35 in order to carry out operations. I would like to point out that, for example, the United States also has mixed operations. That is worth a debate, but with the right input. Another debate is on the question we are addressing. The gap at European level was pointed out. Shouldn't that debate be repeated? Which gaps should be filled? The previous speakers spoke of cost, between 3.5 and 3.6 billion compared to the total budget. That's for 34 planes until 2030, just to be clear. However, the question arises as to what operationality that is. It is mentioned in the Strategic Vision, but will those 34 devices be sufficient to meet those requirements? I am afraid that the whole truth is not being spoken here. Professor Mattelaer, thank you for the piece on the nuclear aspect. I agree with my colleague. You seem to be making a plea to belong to the club of countries that have nuclear weapons on their territory, because we will then be the first to sit at the table to conduct the further talks. This is, of course, a discussion about the chicken and the egg. Allow me to say that I am very much in favour of nuclear disarmament. I believe that this does not mean any added value: not to bring peace, but not to discourage it. The question is, of course, how best the negotiations are conducted. If we all maintain the same attitude, there will never be any disarmament. That's my observation. I would like to make two comments on an amount expressed by Professor Matthijs. It is difficult to make estimates for a period of 20 or 30 years. An amount of EUR 10 to 15 billion was mentioned. I would like to point out that this amount of EUR 15 billion has been repeated a great deal. The amount was pronounced at the request of Colonel Van Pee. I admit it's a very difficult estimate. I'd like to tell you where the money's coming from today. I have another technical question because the environmental aspect is also at my heart in the treatment of aircraft. You spoke earlier about the corrosion of the planes. Chrome-6 is no longer allowed in normal treatment, but there are exceptions. Do I have it right when I say chrome-6 is still being used in the treatment of our F-16s? Is that right? You said it would be more difficult for our current F-16s compared to the newer ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u15	I've heard a lot of interesting questions. May I ask Professor De Vos to bite off the start?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u16	Still a word on Wouter De Vriendt's question. In fact, there should be a European defence vision and everyone should do their part. Now it is true that there are obvious gaps, for example aircraft carriers for power projection. We don't have much in Europe. Refueling aircraft is also a problem. There are also all kinds of shortages in the field of land forces. In other places there is too much. It is correct that the Russians use their relatively limited resources very well. Russia's gross domestic product is about that of Spain or about that of Belgium and the Netherlands together. They perform it to have 1,000 planes in the air. Of course, that has to do with the tradition I have mentioned, with a particularly high-performance arms industry where the best engineers go. That's a tradition that goes on. Where they used to have a problem in the world of software and electronics in general, they've gotten it pretty good. In the cyber world they are clearly very good. I remember the time when I could do people in Russia a favor with a stupid calculator. It's been a long time. That is, of course, a fundamental debate we should have had three years ago. That's obvious. Mr Vandenput raised a problem of, on the one hand, numbers and, on the other hand, quality. For example, the Germans choose many planes. That's got to do with it. It may seem ridiculous... with a World War II trauma where they always had the best equipment but never the numbers. They found that if they sent ten Shermans to one Panther, Panther would liquidate four or five Shermans, but eventually they'd get him, too. The same applies to the planes. The Germans were always one step ahead of that. I'm thinking of the first jet planes, Messerschmitt 262. However, they never had much and the law of the number also plays. Also against the Russians they had that feeling all the time. Psychologically, that continues to play. I have spoken a lot with German colleagues, some of whom, like me, had a military history. We always bring that back. We have chosen small numbers. I understand Mr Alain's concern about our number. For years I have been told that we had to have at least 60 aircraft, with all kinds of calculations to get to ten plus two. This means that in the long term we could deploy ten of them abroad and two of them above the Benelux zone. Now we're going to 34. Of course, we have a real recruitment problem. The big problem with Defense in the coming years is recruiting people, especially in Flanders. We have a little more chance in the south of the country, where, until proof to the contrary, the economy is less strong. That is also one of the reasons why, apart from the Community, we need two air bases. We simply cannot recruit enough staff in Flanders. In Wallonia, Florennes is in a not so easy place. It also complicates things. Of course, I know that on a normal basis, there are between 70 and 100 aircraft. It should be noted that the Germans, for security reasons, are limited to about 50. But we could have 100 planes on a base. At home, in the near future, we will have 17 on both sides. This is a serious problem. I would now like to respond to Tim Vandenput's questions. I agree that there is a problem with the European defence industry. There is the fact that at the time the French did not want to participate in the Eurofighter and played cavalier seul. There is the fact that we have 17 tank models and the Americans only 1. That is a problem for quality. I also understand his concern. I often wonder who will be our friends within 20 to 30 years. I really hope that it will still be the United States and our neighbours, where there is a great chance. The new technology means we'll have unmanned aircraft, but according to predictions, it won't be for another 30 years. I'm not saying drones. I'm saying unmanned planes. There's a difference between those two. Those first unmanned aircraft will operate in conjunction with manned aircraft. When all aircraft will be unmanned, feed is for futurological discussions. You'll be talking about it in 50 years. So we can buy a serious plane one more time. That seems pretty obvious to me. Mr Buysrogge, with regard to the replacement programme, the problem is that our F-16 is relevant in many circumstances but not in certain zones. In any case, the basics will not be operational until 2025 and will not be fully operational until 2030. My biggest concern is not Russia. My main concern is the proliferation of good air defenses. It brings in money. Russia will sell them, like we sell weapons to countries where we can still ask questions. The Americans and the French are leading the way in this area. Everyone sells guns. If there is a rebellion somewhere, as in Afghanistan, we may be helping the insurgents and wondering that the Stingers are turning against us. There is not only the proliferation of nuclear weapons, there is also the proliferation of classic weapons, of air defenses but also of the Suchojs. That Suchoj-35 is being sold, I'm sure. There's still a little doubt about Iran and all that, but that's what's gonna happen. That's for sure. How acute is it and how fast will it go? That's always a little bit of coffee-dipping. There are times when I thought about waiting until 2020, but then I think about the competition and the fact that we can get a good price. That's how people are always a little torn up. Is time in favor of Lockheed? In a few years, the F-35 will be more perfect. Probably the biggest criticism, which now appears in all kinds of magazines and blogs, will weaken. I would remind you that there was nothing we could have done with the first copies of our F-16. There are some in front and in barracks as a monument. We've already sold a part that wasn't really worth much either. These were, among other things, the 1979 ones. However, they were relatively small numbers, because in the normal system a small number is being built of a new aircraft. These planes are then given to a special operational unit, which tests them endlessly. It is only after that that people start selling more. For commercial reasons, Lockheed started selling faster. On the one hand, it's a very difficult technology. That's why they're in trouble. On the other hand, there are also things that are already obsolete. Mr Dallemagne spoke about the good ASEA radar. For example, it is in the Eurofighter and in the new Taiwanese F-16, but not in the F-35. What Lockheed Martin is proposing is not the F-35A/Block 3F, the most recent, but the 4. It exists on paper and there are a lot of good things in it. The problem is always that it is difficult to compare these things, but the team that is working, the 33 people, has far more competences than we do. They're all specialists in their field. This knowledge is brought together and then we get a global picture, which we will present to the Minister. I know the minister. I know how it's gonna go. He will question them. That's how it's gonna be. If his arguments are strong enough, he will make a proposal to the government. The government will not necessarily respond to that proposal. Mr Matthijs is right that the F-35 has the advantage of the number. That is, of course, dramatic for Europe. Originally, they were planning to produce 3500 of which they thought there were 2500 destined for America and 1000 for the rest of the world. The Eurofighter has about 600 so far. They are counting on being able to sell part to the Germans, who are now 1.3% of their GDP but will go to 2%. In other words, the German defence budget will in the near future be roughly the same as that of France and the United Kingdom together. Merkel promised, and as I know the Iron Lady, so will he. It may well be that she buys a number of Eurofighters. It may also be that she still buys some F-35s. The F-35 has a number of properties, such as penetrating the territory, which are brilliant on paper but with which there have been many problems so far. Thanks to the law of the number, as Mr Matthijs says again correctly, the price of each update can indeed be kept low. Imagine if Eurofighter managed to sell 1500 and the Americans, who talk about a reduction, instead of 2,500 selling only 2000, were already moving closer together. However, there is still a problem, that is clear. Mr. Miller, the Rafale is a very good plane, but the model we are offered is a little dated. There is one big problem: the price. Indeed, India bought 36 of them and disbursed $7.5 billion. Belgium is prepared to pay EUR 3.5 billion. There's a serious problem. We also know from our French friends that the French Air Force pays too much for aircraft. Imagine they're offering us these planes for $3.5 billion. India will not be delighted, nor will our French colleagues! There is a problem today and I wondered why France had not participated in this competition, because it was capable of doing so. I believe that the price is a problem and it therefore proposes a very strong partnership and Belgium needs a partnership. This is the problem with Sweden. Sweden is a neutral country and therefore does not want a partnership for operations abroad. They agree to help us cover our airspace but not to support us logistically abroad. I wondered about Lieutenant-Colonel Engineer Decrop, who is certainly a capable man. I've been wondering about motivation and I'm familiar with the military's malfunctions. It's very often promotion or job. For an engineer, it's so important to have an interesting job. I know people who remained captain, commander or major because they were interested in the job. They didn't even want to become colonel or general. For many, having the rank or stripes on the uniform is very important. Even if the others were not appointed, he was convinced – since he is a specialist in the field – that he would be appointed. Then he's not named. It's a motivation; maybe it's something else. Perhaps it is intellectual honesty – it is possible – or the fact that he does not accept that there are only six planes that can go abroad. It is very difficult to know its deep motivations. But I've been wondering. I don't condemn it, it's not up to me to do it, but I'm looking for motivations. The volt-face is big! I read the text. I wondered if it was the same person who wrote both texts. Mr Top, I fully agree with you on the control of the Court of Auditors. Parliament is the head of the Court of Auditors. You have to force it. After all, we give so many figures, which must be verified. I heard your hearing on 20 April 2018, in which you asked that question. I thought you made a good point. Of course I checked to see if the DOD made an attempt to do so. I found three places in which the Defense Department tried to involve the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has always replied that it does not have enough staff, which is typical of Belgium. There isn't enough staff anywhere. However, it promised to calculate it afterwards. Next time, you'll have to force the Court of Auditors, after all, you're the chief. We have already talked about operationality, namely 34 aircraft in 2030, and that to cover, of course, with two aircraft, there is a turn-over role with the Dutch Air Force, namely the airspace and the bay, which is part of the North Sea of Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. That's not much. I had Colonels and generals of the Air Force explain to me ten years ago that there must be at least 60 aircraft. They did so on the basis of all kinds of calculations. Now we will do it with a smaller number. It is, of course, a problem of quality, quantity and operations. I don't have a perfect answer, but I understand your concern. It suggests that you have a lot of interest in the matter. Madam President, I'm ready. I shall leave the floor to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u17	Madam President, members of the committee, thank you for the very pertinent questions. Mr De Vriendt, let me begin by opening the debate. Over the last few days, I have seen with great interest the reports of the previous committee meetings. If I recall correctly, you also mentioned a question of confidence. If I may expand for a moment, I think that's the most important thing. After all, when the political level loses confidence in an administration, in this case Defence, we really end up in a scenario in which everything within our democracy crumbles. It is for this reason that I myself, in my own intervention, albeit as an outsider, have tried not to avoid the difficult issues. I myself, as a citizen, believe that Parliament should not be left in the lurch. If I may express some reservations about that most widespread debate, about transparency and the flow of information. I have established that the 2015 IKW note, which has been distributed here, has apparently scared people that all those discussions have taken place in an IKW context. If I may put forward a very general argument: that may be a signal that more investment is needed in strong parliamentary groups, rather than in strong cabinets. Of course, we are dominated by an IKW culture that does not necessarily always benefit our rule of law and our democracy as a whole. But that is a very broad debate that goes far beyond Defence as a policy area. I think we are witnessing this same discussion in many areas. Specifically, as far as the defence sector is concerned. Defence is, of course, a very specific department because there is little knowledge about it in civil society. If we open up this information flow from Defence as a department and let Defence report more often to the government as a whole, to Parliament, I think we would be able to do so from a perspective of the study of civil-military relations. I believe that these hearings have also shown that, as Mr De Vos said, these are sharp people. They're willing to do that, too. If I go into the details of your questions, the division of labour among Europeans is something in which I am well at home. There is a division of labour. If we are specifically zooming in on the defence of the European continent, not on the expeditionary operations, because they are something that actually comes up on top of that, the essence of Defence is precisely that, defence, defence, defence, defence, that is what was agreed on more than 60 years ago. Countries focus on what they are best suited for, given their geography. That actually explains why the Belgian Defence Department, as we know it in post-war history, has an air-land centric focus. That has grown so much in the Cold War and evolved over time. Synchronization in that context is under way. In this specific context, I can also go into this in a great deal of detail outside the scope of this sitting. However, the air-fighting role is specifically an objective for Belgium, among many others, but it is the most important one at the moment. The multilateral debate will take place in the so-called Defence Policy and Planning Committee. I would like to mention a salient detail. When the whole of this discussion has broken loose in recent weeks, I have asked myself who can give the clearest, uninhibited advice on what is technically possible and the political consequences. I've been making some calls in my network and asking the question at the highest administrative level on my own initiative. This concerns people who are not Belgian, but in the DPPC context follow the whole discussion about division of labour. I asked them what they thought of this. In summary, the answer was that the Belgian authorities had to take the decision. The only thing that really cannot be sold is that nothing is decided, precisely because of Belgium's place within the various international alliances. That actually makes that, no matter what it becomes, everything is better than doing nothing. That is the very simple conclusion in that regard. I would also like to take up Mr Buysrogge's question. In fact, we are already standing with our backs against the wall. It is a decision to proceed with the replacement procedure which at least shows to our various international partners that all our previous promises are not empty promises, that there will be improvement in the future. That is actually the main diplomatic risk. Mr De Vriendt, you have also raised the issue of proliferation. I understand the frustration about this, but I am actually afraid of something quite different, namely that the importance of nuclear power is rapidly increasing again. This is seen in the language of the wider world. I will not comment too much on the nuclear language from Moscow, but it is there, it is very assertive. Also in NATO's declaratory posture, when one looks at the Declaration adopted in Warsaw in 2016, that agitated language of all all allies. Paragraphs 53 and 54 contain a language that is stronger than anything we have seen over the past 25 years. Sitting at the table in this context is the same as the debate, which is moving further and further away from combating proliferation. My starting point for this issue from our close Belgian perspective is that we can take the time to do so, because it will only become urgent at the time when the fleet switch would take place, which is not during the next legislative period. Mr Top, you asked me how we should do that if we wanted to get rid of it. Well, if we don't do one thing, we have to do more of the other, things that have the same strategic relevance. They're not so obvious. The most obvious is then more of all conventional combat capacity in all dimensions. You also asked whether 34 was a sufficient number. I think we should be careful to maintain the balance in our military structure. To some extent there is also some uncertainty about how everything will work with a new fleet. When we begin to think about where the greatest, the most urgent needs are, after the 34 new aircraft, I think that with our land forces, our second main fighting capacity, those needs are very pressing. However, these needs come with major recruitment challenges. I have also stated explicitly that I think that, as I estimate the situation, returning to three land brigades seems appropriate to me. This means a Land component that is 50 % larger than today. The planned recruitment for the coming years is to increase that recruitment to 2 100 people/functions per year. This is a level we have never achieved since the suspension of service. Whether it's realistic... can we recruit 2 100 people a year in Defense? Or are there any more potential? That'll tell the future. I think there are several investment needs. We can then, as time progresses, see what is still possible for air combat capacity. Mr Vandenput, you also asked a very pertinent question about the picture in the very long term, namely the NATO alliance on a time horizon of several decades. How's that? Well, in the very long term, the trend is actually clear. The Western world, with all European and Asian allies Japan, South Korea, Australia and so on, the industrialized, western, democratic world is shrinking from the rest, both in terms of military and economic weight in the world. That's the long term trend. Within this very long-term trend, including Europe's relative share, as compared to Asia, for example, Europe is declining as part of the world economy as part of global military expenditure. From Washington's point of view, this means that Europe will be the secondary theatre, Asia will be the primary theatre. That is to say, Europe's citizens are in second place and perhaps more so than in the past. I hope that this stays together with the United States, because without the United States, this also means that we will have to pay all the invoices ourselves. The conclusion is that if a security crisis were to occur in East Asia, it would immediately absorb a large part of the American bandwidth. At that time, the defence of the European continent is largely dependent on European resources with a little back-up from the United States. That is why the United States is telling Europe that Europe must have its own high-end capabilities, because if things go wrong all over the world, the US has only limited bandwidth. I believe that Belgium should also play its part in the broad European story. The countries of Central and Eastern Europe are the forward line. Poland will have a lot of tanks. The most geographically sheltered countries will strengthen when needed. The less wealthy countries in Central and Eastern Europe are likely to develop more staff-intensive, less mobile capacities, and the technologically more advanced countries with the most high-tech capabilities will be asked for support to maintain everything. Mr Miller, you also mentioned "the French question", if we can call it that. To be clear, the Belgian Government has not received a formal offer, following our invitation to tender, from the French Government. I'm sorry. It would have been much better to have three candidates competing than two. For reasons on which one can speculate, the French government has decided not to join the competition until the end. I'm sorry, but we started a competition. However, it can hardly be stopped with parameters that the Belgian government has decided after lengthy internal debates. In fact, we can hardly abandon the procedure that we have defined ourselves. In addition, it was perhaps not so diplomatic on the part of our French friends to play the game as it was done, generating a lot of media attention, but without going into the technical details of the files. The question of economic benefits is, of course, also of great importance. We appreciated, with the acquisition of the F-16 fleet, what role it played for our aviation sector. I believe, in this context, that what is very important is that we must always continue to invest in the pursuit of technologies because it is true, at European level, that there is a lot of debate on the technologies of the future. There is the Franco-German plane that Mr. De Vriendt also mentioned. There is the whole debate on the development of autonomous, unmanned systems, etc. I believe that, for our industry, it is important that we invest in technology acquisition to try to participate in all these technological and industrial opportunities of the future. This is not simply done with the extension of the lifespan of technologies that are already well known to our own industry. Moreover, with regard to the Franco-German initiative to develop a new fighter aircraft, I would like to draw your attention to the parliamentary hearing that took place in the summer of 2017 in Paris, in the National Assembly with General Lanata, the head of the French Air Force. He explains to the French parliamentarians, to your French colleagues, how the introduction of the new systems is influencing the balance of power between different European countries. He clearly says that if we do nothing, we fall back into the second class. It is in this context that General Lanata says that we must invest in the development of a new platform of fighter aircraft. I understand that. This is a very good idea and we will see where it will lead us, but to be clear, developing a new fighter plane to deal with the introduction of all kinds of new technologies is a great challenge. It's gonna take a lot of time. I would honestly be extremely surprised if there was a new Franco-German plane before 2050. Which asks us a question. How to get there? Between where we are now and that moment, which is very theoretical, there is at least a period of about thirty years, perhaps more. Perhaps this project will know its own stakes? It can also be seen that the acquisition of the Airbus A400M has been undertaken and that there are also delays at this level. There are also technical problems. This seems to be a constant in the aeronautics sector. Once our Airbus fleet is here, we'll see how much adaptations, both here and there, are needed. The hangars to accommodate aircraft will be expanded, etc. I am optimistic about the consolidation of defence at the European level. A very good initiative has been taken by the European Commission and the European Defence Fund. But the impact of this initiative will be felt over several decades. This will not solve our current problems in the years to come. I think I've answered most of your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, many things have already been said, and I am going to go over a number of things quickly. With regard to the French aircraft Rafale, I share Mr De Vos' opinion. A question was also asked about the role of the Court of Auditors. The leaders of the Court of Auditors are in the back of the hall. They'll be talking later. I believe that the Court of Auditors is an external control body, which is dependent on the Chamber, but which has a role to play here a posteriori. The problem in this country is that people want to use the Court of Auditors for everything. I do not think it is up to the Court of Auditors to take part in the dossier in the present circumstances. This problem has been solved in the United States and other countries. There Parliament has its own budget office. Madam President, it might be a suggestion to set up a parliamentary federal budget office that you can support extensively with figures of revenue, expenditure and calculations. I miss that here. In the present circumstances, however, this is not the task of the Court of Auditors, unless the gentlemen in the back of the Chamber are about to contradict me. Then I come to questions about the future of NATO. I see no problem at present with regard to the future of NATO. No one is questioning NATO. The last NATO summit took place in the new building and there is already a second beginning of July. I haven't read a single note from the Trump-Pence Government saying that they want to abolish it all of a sudden. It is true that the Republican candidates during the 2016 elections, as well as Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama and Bernie Sanders, have said that Europe needs to put more money on the table for Defence. That's what they all said. However, no one has said that NATO must disappear. Moreover, the Americans have a greater interest in maintaining NATO than in abolishing it. What if we didn't have an air force? That wasn't really raised here, but who's gonna do the police of the sky in this country? Are we going to outsource that to France, Germany, the Netherlands or Great Britain? Someone's gonna have to do it anyway. That is one of the tasks of the government, the police of the air. And for that, among other things, the Air Force. A number of elected representatives said 34 planes are low. When compared to the Netherlands and certainly Norway, we buy very few devices. That is not even a Wing, because a Wing consists of 36 aircraft, if I am not mistaken, Mr De Vos. However, I should also like to point out the following. I've been diving in history for a while. The F-16s were also bought in two packages, one in the 70s and one in the 80s. But 34 is very little, I must admit. Then there are the economic compensations. If one reads the book, those economic compensations play for only 10%. I also know that this story is going to be much more important in practice. Of course, the investigation of the two remaining candidates will also have to show who is best, either Lockheed Martin or the Eurofighter group. In practice, however, economic compensation is much more politically important than the 10% that it is legally official. The question has been asked about an open, transparent procedure. I believe that the procedure for the F35 in this country is very open and transparent in comparison with the many other military procurement procedures of the past, and that is what I am sticking to. Did I plead in favour of the F35? No. You must decide whether it will be the Eurofighter or the F35. It will be one of the two, unless the government says: we buy nothing, we see what the next government does. But I don't think that's the most intellectual decision. Mr De Vos has already pointed out that Lockheed Martin's F35 has an important budgetary advantage: the numbers. One can't look away from that. That was also a big advantage with the F-16. This is a disadvantage for the Rafale and also for the Eurofighter. I do not comment on the technical qualities and such things. I would also like to stress that in the 1970s a lot of articles were published about the F-16, which they didn't like at the time. Today, everyone says, "That was a good plane for the last 40 years." I think that is something we should be careful about. The technological evolutions are impossible to estimate. My neighbor will go into that further. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you did not know in 1979 that everyone would fly to GPS in the 1990s. What will be possible? That there would be radar-guided missiles, cruise missiles, Tomahawks, none of that could be predicted. Evolution is moving so fast. That also makes it budgetaryly difficult. The only thing that can be planned in the budget is the purchase price of that device. What it will cost in the years to come in terms of operation and updates, you can't possibly calculate now. For example, there are dozens of examples, including in non-military files in this country. For example, what will happen to the buildings of the federal government, or to the roads of the Regions, that's all hard to calculate right now. Nuclear weapons, I'm going over that. It's all been said about that. I would just like to stress that we concluded an agreement on this in the 1960s. I can only conclude, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, that no Belgian government, of any composition, has ever questioned that agreement. That will remain as long as the Belgian Government does not withdraw it. Of course, about the administrative procedure one can have many discussions in the IKW's, but what is the value of an IKW meeting? For example, there are perhaps hundreds a day in this country over all governments together. In the end, decisions must be taken in a Council of Ministers. That is where the political responsibility lies. They have democratic legitimacy. And in Parliament, too. IKW's have nothing to decide and nothing to figure out. I do not think that has any value whatsoever. Also the relationship between IKW's and Cabinets, which are ultimately only meetings of Cabinets, but no decisions can be made there. On the European dimension, I can also conclude that there is no European army. Mr De Vos rightly pointed out that the French did not want to participate in the first version of the Eurofighter and wanted to go on alone. Now we see that the whole Eurofighter concept is falling apart, because Italy too has said goodbye. Prime Minister Renzi brought in an important piece of F-35. I see that the reports of the European Commission also highlight the enormous problems of harmonizing European weapons systems and all possible different aircraft, helicopters and tanks. That's all right, but what country will admit to that? Will the French give in to the Germans, the British to the French? I haven't seen any initiative yet. The French Women's Minister of Defense and the German Women's Minister of Defense want to talk about a sixth generation of fighter planes. It has to be a German-French plane. That'll be something for at least 2045. I conclude that this is also a French-German conversation. Where does that leave the rest of Europe? They'll have to buy it afterwards. Anyway, we still have to see if it's ever gonna happen. If we look closely at the European Commission's reports and put them in addition to NATO's annual reports, who will be responsible for a European army? The country in Europe with the most important defence is Great Britain. They're probably going to a Brexit. Will they still be in it? That's doubtful. Then there are 27 countries left in the European Union, and the Danes do not want to participate in the European Defence Agency. That's how we get 26. We still have six neutral countries, including Sweden and Austria. We are therefore falling back on 20 countries and we must not forget that Sweden has an important military capacity. At best, we will fall back to 20, which together will not reach a defence budget of EUR 200 billion a year. The Americans are over 600, if they're allowed to be the gauge. If we want to go to a European defence system, a European army, then I am not against it, but I must remind you, and there are a number of budgetary specialists in the Chamber among the elected representatives of the people who will have to put our country on the table much more money for a European army than in the present circumstances with NATO. The United States has been saying for years that they must put too much money on the table for the European defence. Let's be honest about that. I am not against a European army, but if we look at the figures and the facts, then Belgium will also have to put much more money on the table to finance a European army. Are we prepared to do so? That is about billions a year, at least five or six billion euros that we will have to put more on the table. I believe that we are certainly not done with this discussion. Madam President, I believe that I have tried to deal with just about everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u19	Madam President, on the first point made by Mr De Vriendt, I do not wish to comment. I don't feel called for that. I am a material specialist, I am not going to rule on the political necessity of the arrival of those aircraft. As far as the technical question is concerned, the comparison was when to replace one's car. That was a very good comment. I would like to point out that most people do not replace their cars almost everyone here because of material engineering reasons, i.e. because of the body. After all, it is usually designed to last much longer. A car is replaced for other technical reasons related to electronics, windows that don't go down anymore, doors that don't open properly and so on. This is about the technical peripherals. Furthermore, it is about the performance. I believe that is what this debate is about. The performance has to do with new implementations in a car that allow you to do certain things you can't do with your old car. I believe that this comparison goes far enough. The second question was how one determines that something has come to the end of its life. That is a difficult question because it is always a consideration in relation to maintenance. That is also true for a car, one finds that it needs more maintenance. For example, we need to get things cleaned up faster before we go to control. That comparison is partly valid for aircraft. However, in the world of aircraft and in civil aviation, which I know better, aircraft are stripped every few years. They are completely stripped and checked. People know what to look at, and I suspect that this is the case for the military aircraft. I understand from the debate that, of course, everything is documented as well as possible. This also makes it possible to identify the weak points. This reduces the performance of your materials. I can therefore imagine that, as compared to your new car, it would be easier to fly an older plane than a new one. I thought that was a logical debate, as I have been able to follow. This means that, because of the installation of peripheral equipment and performance of materials, the consideration is also that a new aircraft with newer materials can handle newer performances. As for the question of chromium-6+, do you have a lot of time? The chromium-6+ is a very difficult debate. For those who remember, the audience has become very sensitive to this by the famous film of Erin Brockovich. She's playing a lawyer. There has been a major scandal in America where chromium-6 was discharged into groundwater. As far as the situation around chromium-6+ is concerned, it depends on the sectors and how it is used. This means that it has not been used in Europe in the automotive world for years. This means that 100 % can be rested there. In construction it has been introduced more recently. The reason why one wishes to continue with chromium-6+ has to do with the performance. This means that it is still the best corrosion system. As a result, it was postponed in aviation because of safety issues. They're justified, too. I would like to give an opinion on this, but I am an expert in that regard. The reason it has been postponed is that other forms of corrosion are observed which may cause safety issues and which will also greatly increase the maintenance costs of the aircraft. In order to put it quite complex, this is another debate, it is true that Europe is currently allowing, for example in construction, products imported on the basis of chromium-6+ technology. With regard to a company like Arcelor Mittal, where there is local production, this puts them in an inferior competitive position. In aviation, it will also be the case that this does not yet apply in America. After 2023, unless the problem changes there, we will have aircraft flying in with chromium-6+, Boeings, when Airbus, for example, is no longer allowed to use it. Once again, the problem is very complex there. I hope I have answered your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u20	Is there another colleague with a pressing question?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u21	I have two follow-up questions. The first one is for Professor De Vos. What exactly is the right reason, economy of scale have I already heard as an argument, why Rafale is twice as expensive as what we budget in our quote request? Is that pure scale or are there other objective reasons for this? Then I have a follow-up question for Professor Mattelaere in relation to personnel policy. It's true that we're looking for enough people for the DOD. A clear solution could be to allow people to work a little longer. How do you see that? Maybe other panel members would like to say something about that, too? How much longer can one work in the Defense Department? To what age and to what extent do you see that as meaningful?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u22	The Rafale has primarily to do with the numbers, the dimension. The attitude of India, which is a bit stubborn, has chosen for the Rafale without much competition. If competition is not organized, the price is paid. The French negotiated diplomatically, much more than commercial or military. With the Rafale, nuclear capacity is very important for India, because India is counting on its nuclear weapons being transferred mainly by aircraft. That explains the attitude. So numbers, but also a non-rational negotiation. Suppose France would now sell us a similar number for less than half the price, then I think India would not be very happy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u23	That price isn't compensated by compensation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u24	That compensation is quite a discussion. I had an economist explain that to me. The French compensation in our case is mainly compensation for existing cases that are being continued. If we don't buy, they won't. SABCA is of course from Dassault, while SONACA is from the Walloon Region. Smilingly, it is always said that SONACA is a state company with a private attitude and SABCA is a private company with a state attitude, which of course is a boltade.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u25	Madam President, Mr Bogaert, thank you very much for your question. The debate on the heavy professions and raising the retirement age obviously has important repercussions on the overall staff size of the Ministry of Defence. When we look at whether or not we should continue to look at the operational output of Defence as an institution, we see that the whole discussion about retirement age is a pertinent discussion when it comes to managing pension costs, but that it is actually a question of delaying execution from a military-strategic perspective. Keeping more people in the age segment above 56 years of age with the structure is a problem, because for the operational units, which are the people who fly the fighter plane and do the operational work in the frontline, mostly younger people are needed. The output of Defence or the so-called operational capability of Defence from a strategic perspective is therefore mainly related to the volume of young people. That is the worrying issue, with which I do not take a position in the discussion on how long people should be kept at work. I personally know a lot of soldiers who don't like to retire at the age of 56. So can people keep working longer? Some of us can certainly do that. However, should we conceptualize Defense as a lifetime employee, focusing everything on people who enter the structure very young and remain with Defense until the end of their professional career? In my opinion, there are other options for this. Flexibilisation of statutes is a debate in which one must be careful about the attractiveness of the military profession. Due to the last slimming of the staff structure, Defense has spent the past decade as an organization in a series of over 1 000 clearances per year. A decade ago there were about 40 000 soldiers, 30 000 today. In the coming years, this trend is still accelerating due to the current age pyramid. Less and less geographical implantation also means longer commuting as soldiers mutating from one function to another. Defense must remain an attractive employer. Young people need to see a future in Defense. That requires political backing, so that this department does not bleed to death, which is a bit the trend of the past few years. Once one can put Defence on the map as an attractive employer, one may also be able to achieve more flexibility in managing military careers. I hope that I have answered your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u26	Gentlemen, I would like to thank you once again for being here in the Committee on Defence to discuss this dossier with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u27	Colleagues, the internal experts are now ready. I would like to welcome Mr Eddy Van Der Meersch, Inspector-General of Finance, and Mr Jozef Beckers, Counselor at the Court of Auditors. There are also Mr Michiels and Mr Hermans. I'd like to start because you've been waiting so long. I apologize for that. It's nice of you to stay. I shall first give the floor to Mr Eddy Van Der Meersch, Inspector-General of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u28	The intervention of the Treasury Inspectorate in the dossier examined here is described in the opinion of 30 January 2017 concerning the start of the procedure of replacing the F-16 and the accompanying support. In the light of the previous discussions, I would like to point out that this opinion is situated after the decision of the December 2015 core to purchase 34 fighter aircraft and before the recent lifetime events. For the rest, I have been invited to answer questions from the members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u29	It's the second time I've been invited to a hearing in this committee. Previously on 5 October 2016. I would like to remind you of what I said or did not say. I then referred to the law on the Court of Auditors, Article 5. The Court of Auditors shall examine the legality and regularity of the expenditure and revenue of the State. The Court of Auditors subsequently controls the proper use of state funds. It shall ensure that the principles of economy, efficiency and efficiency are respected. The Chamber of Representatives may order the Court of Auditors to carry out investigations into the management of the departments and institutions which are subject to its controls. I also referred to public procurement legislation at that committee meeting. The general legislation on public procurement does not apply, the Military Purchases Act of 13 August 2011. I pointed out at the time that the Court of Auditors' contribution was not exclusively a matter for the Court of Auditors, it was not a question of an efficiency study, it was a budgetary one and it was of a budgetary nature. I also mentioned that there is a commission for the army purchases. The Committee's report also says literally: 'The Court of Auditors will, of course, have the task of carrying out the requests it would receive from the Court by means of a resolution within the limits of its legal powers'. For the Court of Auditors, therefore, facts, dates and laws count. We're the first house to respect laws. A number of facts have taken place since 6 October 2016. First, on 17 March 2017, the government decided to replace the F-16. She then sent out the Request for Government Proposal. Secondly, the law of 23 May 2017 on military programming for the period 2016-2030 is almost a control manual for us. That law determines the investments in main equipment deemed necessary for Defence during the period 2016 to 2030. The necessary credits... words that always sound good to us.. in liquidation, so in payment, for the realization of the whole of the investment files expressed in Article 2 for the period 2020-2030, expressed in constant euro 2015, amount to 9.2 billion. I also mention Article 6 of this law, because that is also a manual for us: "The sum of the related amounts of the investment files referred to in Article 2 entered in the respective general expenditure budgets shall not exceed the amount of Article 3 expressed in euro 2015. Where there are differences in the purchase prices of equipment, the related investment programmes can only be compensated in the budget within the relevant dimension. The Minister of Defence must report annually to the Chamber on the implementation of this investment plan. In other words, the law is for us a manual of inquiry. As I said on 5 October 2016, we would report on military expenditure in the Court of Auditors' investigation on the 2018 budget. At that time, we explained and examined the investments in the framework of the Strategic Vision of Defence in our comments on the Defence budget. We have noted that there are 9.5 billion commitment appropriations. The critical note that we are adding is that, given the enormous budgetary importance, the information contained in the budget documents which was on the brief side and that we would suggest that we place some more detailed information there in the context of the budgetary negotiations. We have also said that the military programme law will not enter into force until 2020 in terms of settlement. As a result, there is a huge difference between 9.5 billion commitments and the amount of settlement in the 2018 budget. We have also referred to the balance of payments and so on. We examined the Dutch Defence 2018 budget at the end of last year. Today's budgetary reality is the large amount of commitment in the budget. No commitment has been made today. In other words, no commitment has yet been made. There is no contract and therefore no euro has yet been committed for the articles in question. So far we have complied with what we had promised on 5 October 2016. I also said it at the time, we are investigating or controlling policies, not planned policies. We only audit that which exists. Were there any planes purchased? No. Is there a connection? No. Is there a contract? No. Is there a record? No. In other words, on this policy issue, on how many aircraft are to be bought, on what level of ambition is national defence or which aircraft should be, we only have the opinion that I have heard a lot today, namely that this is a political decision and certainly not a decision of a Court of Auditors. We also have no advisory power on the opportunity or policy choices to be made. The opportunity study is for the Treasury Inspectorate, not the Court of Auditors. If you want to draw a parallel, a company supervisor in a company doesn't do that either. We're company auditors for the government. In a private company, the company supervisor also does not say that one should buy blue bags instead of red ones. It is therefore not a matter for the Court of Auditors to intervene. They also mentioned forcing the Court of Auditors to do so earlier. There was someone who said that the Court of Auditors complained that it was understaffed. I've never heard that say. At least I never said it. Where he gets that is a mystery to me. What has perhaps been said is that we in the Court of Auditors do not have specialists in avionics, radar or stealth content of the wings. I have never said that we have too few staff, but we do not have staff specializing in the themes I mentioned. The Netherlands Court of Auditors is sometimes referred to. In recent days, however, I noted, in preparation for this day, that the website and files of the Dutch Court of Auditors have been closed with security clauses. So I can't read about the F-35 anymore, but I don't know why. I read one security clause after another. However, I would like to ask what is going on, a problem with the website or a problem with the texts. In the previous explanatory statement, I mentioned the differences with the Dutch Court of Auditors. As an institution we are similar, because both are a chamber of account. For example, the Dutch Court of Auditors also works on request or on the advice of a minister. In the Netherlands, a minister can ask the Court of Auditors for advice on policy issues, which we cannot do with us. After listening to all the speeches, last week until 11 p.m. and also today, I feel even less in place, as the matter falls outside the context of the Court of Auditors. Once the public contract has been awarded, at the moment, there is a task for the Court of Auditors, as we will then examine both the budgetary question and the execution of the public contract, the follow-up of the appropriations and so on. These matters will certainly be dealt with, because it is not only about the purchase of the century, but probably also about the research of the century, also for us. Once the agreements have been signed, we will therefore be entering our territory with regard to public procurement, budgetary processing and implementation of the agreements that have been concluded. It is not just a public contract, as I said earlier, but a contract between governments (MOU), which is not the same as a public contract to acquire something. So much for my introduction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u30	Thank you very much, Mr Van Der Meersch, Mr Beckers, for the explanation. I'd like to apologize to you at first, not only because of the advanced hour, but also because of the tone. I'm declaring myself. Mr Beckers, I am sorry that you have to repeat yourself. I think it is quite understandable from your point of view, but I am sorry that you have to wait here to repeat it. I understand that the opposition wanted both the Treasury and the Court of Auditors to come here to be heard again. I am curious about the many questions that will arise from the opposition. I would just like to point out to the opposition represented in Mr Top that we need to look closely at what Mr Beckers has just said. He's repeated himself again. There is a hard learner in the opposition and, above all, in Mr Top, who constantly says that the Court of Auditors should be involved in the course of the procedure. You have done so with the motion for a resolution that you have tabled, and you have continued to do so, even though Mr Beckers had presented his comments to the committee. I am pleased that Mr Beckers has said here that this control is only carried out a posteriori and not a priori or in the course of the process. Mr Beckers, I am also pleased with the clarification you have just made about the resources available or about the persons. The previous speakers did indeed give the impression that a shortage of staff or whatever might be at the root of not wanting to be involved in the process. I am certainly satisfied with your answer and I do not have any additional questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u31	Mr Buysrogge, I am not touched by your comment about who the gentlemen have asked. Everyone's free to ask for an opinion. I was not surprised by Mr Beckers' explanation. I repeat what I said earlier. As a legislative body, the Chamber has the power to decide whether the Court of Auditors is competent or even to amend the law or to seek the means to carry out any objective neutral control. Mr Beckers, you only replied with regard to the current... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u32	It wasn't a bill. If you do not even agree to a resolution, you should not go any further. Secondly, Mr Beckers, you did indeed answer the questions that were asked last time. I am not surprised to get another answer in the same sentence here today. Mr Van Der Meersch of the Treasury Inspectorate, you said earlier that the only advice given in the file dates back to early 2017, following the government's decision to launch the request. I would like to go back to another opinion, which you wrote in 2016 as Inspector of Finance under a law that was also mentioned here, namely the military programme law. The opinion states that you do not have any fundamental comments on the law. That surprises me a little, since the Council of State does have comments and says that it is contrary to Articles 174 and 191 of the Constitution, where the link is made to the fact that budgets are adopted annually, and to Article 172. Why did you not mention in your opinion that the provisions may be contrary to those articles of the Constitution, as the Council of State has pointed out? The Council of State says that the government's bill of 9 billion in military investment has no legally enforceable value.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u33	I have a question for Mr Beckers. The defense commission has been looking for answers for some time. We are presented with a case A and a case B, with a lot of figures going on and on. Would you answer questions from individual Members of Parliament, for example from the Lansd defense committee, in order to obtain figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u34	I did not make that comment, because the law on military programming is more indicative of the investments envisaged. It is not a legal obligation to actually carry out those investments in the year mentioned therein. Moreover, the law specifically states that this does not include appropriations in the general expenditure budget, but that each year the procedure through the government and through Parliament for fixing the appropriations per year will continue. We have also seen in the 2018 budgetary control that there have been many changes compared to the initial appropriation 2018. It may not have been used yet, but files have already been launched which may not have been notified yet, but have been approved by the Council of Ministers. This is the case, for example, with the Multi Role Tanker Transport. The amount is fixed and the appropriation has been revised in the general expenditure budget 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u35	I think you refer to the right of inspection, the consultation of documents in the Court of Auditors, Mr Bogaert. Here, in this case, we didn't audit, so we don't have an audit evidence. All audit evidence is open to MPs. So what is open is the documents that we have used for our budget opinion on the 2018 budget and soon on the 2018 budget adjustment, should there be a section on the Defence section, on which we will report to the Chamber in a number of weeks, in May. We do not have an audit on this file at the moment, so there is no audit evidence, which can be consulted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u36	Firstly, I would like to thank the gentlemen for being here so late for a non-issue, at least for them. Auditors of the Court of Auditors have repeatedly said to the Chamber that they can only take action after commitments have been made. Thank you again, Mr Beckers, for explaining this here. Secondly, the Treasury Inspectorate gave a positive opinion on the procurement procedure. I am glad that this has happened, because all the parties in the majority, including mine, are strongly in favour of replacing the aircraft with new ones. The two days with hearings have made that even clearer, now that we have seen different people from, among other things, Defence and the supplier. I would like to confirm once again that we will continue to replace our F-16s for all we care. I am glad that the financial experts are also in line with that decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u37	Madam President, I too would like to thank our speakers. I say to them the regret that is mine because, although I have a great deal of respect for Mr.Top, who represents the opposition, I must admit that I am the only Francophone parliamentarian to be present. This means that the three French-speaking opposition parties did not find it useful to come and ask you questions. I deeply regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic882x.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for being here and for repeating everything very clearly.
