ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u1	The Conference of Presidents has brought together the interplays and the NATO debate. The Rules of Procedure stipulate that we must respect the order of the interviews. This means that I will be giving the floor to Stéphane Crusnière who will have 10 minutes for his interplay. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez then had the floor for 5 minutes to discuss the F-16s. Then I come to Georges Dallemagne, who also has an interplay about the F-16s. If he is the only member of his group to speak about NATO, then he should do so. Same goes for me. Mr Grosemans will then talk about the F-16s and Mr Hedebouw about the NATO summit. It is then up to Mr Maingain on the F-16s, Mr Yüksel on the NATO summit and Mr Van Peteghem. Finally, the groups that have not yet spoken about the NATO summit will be given the floor if they so wish. The Prime Minister has informed me that he will have to leave us for a very important phone call around 4:30 p.m. The other two ministers stay with us all the time. The Prime Minister will be available to answer the questions he has been asked. I give the floor to the Prime Minister who will give us an introduction to the NATO summit. Of course, this is not a question of questioning.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u2	Mr President, I am also prepared to give an introduction to the interplays and will respect the order. However, I shall begin with an introduction to the NATO summit. This NATO summit will take place on July 11 and 12, partly at NATO's new headquarters and partly at the Royal Museums of Art and History at the 50th Anniversary. The programme includes, firstly, a meeting of the North Atlantic Council on Wednesday 11 July. There will be talk of a higher level of preparedness for troops, the adjustment of the chain of command, the intensification of the fight against terrorism, the improvement of the cyber defense of the alliance and, of course, the burden sharing. There is also a working dinner at the Cinquantenaire on the evening of 11 July to discuss the current Euro-Atlantic security challenges and a meeting of the North Atlantic Council with Georgia and Ukraine to discuss with these two key partners. Finally, a meeting of the North Atlantic Council will be held with operational partner nations and potential operational partner countries in the Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan, which will conclude the second day of the summit. Since the last NATO summit in Warsaw, the security situation at the borders of the Euro-Atlantic zone has deteriorated further, both on the east and on the south flanks of the alliance. The security context in the east remains a cause for concern as demonstrated by the large-scale Russian exercise, the lack of transparency, the new focus on nuclear capacity, the persistence of a low intensity conflict in Eastern Ukraine and the illegal annexation of Crimea. The main topics at this summit are the following. Firstly, to strengthen collective defence with particular attention to the security situation in the regions of the Baltic Sea and the Black Sea. In this context, the debate on Burden Sharing is appropriate, which may be the US President's most special focus. Secondly, the confirmation and extension of the projection of stability to partner countries through more intensive cooperation on security, with emphasis on the fight against terrorism. The third point will be to welcome, together with the implementing partners, the Resolute Support Mission, the peace process in Afghanistan, and to extend support to the Afghan armed forces until 2024. It will also involve working with Ukraine and Georgia on security, defence and cooperation reforms. Finally, we cannot rule out that enlargement or "NATO open door policy" is also subject to our discussions. Finally, I come to the external security challenge on the Alliance's eastern and southern flanks. Russian actions have damaged stability for several years, starting with Russian interference in Georgia and Moldova and, more recently, through the illegal annexation of Crimea and interference in Donbass. That's where Russia's hybrid actions come in. Russian investments in military capabilities, in particular the strengthening of the military forces around the Black Sea and the Baltic Sea, do not contribute to a stable European security environment. The repeated and large-scale unannounced exercises, the aggressive nuclear rhetoric and the lowering of the nuclear threshold remain alarming. Also worrying is the fact that Russia no longer complies with the Intermediate Nuclear Forces agreement by installing rocket types that exceed the maximum allowed range. Belgium and its Allies continue to condemn violations of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia and Ukraine. In this respect, the consultation with Ukraine and Georgia will be an expression of support for their difficult situation and their application for membership. Belgium continues to condemn Russia's illegal and illegitimate annexation of Crimea. In concrete terms, we reiterate once again the need to respect international law and to put an end to the violation of the territorial integrity of Ukraine in Donbass. We will also continue to endorse a two-pronged approach to Russia: a credible military deterrence combined with a political dialogue so that we can hopefully lead to détente. This approach is part of NATO's overall strategy of conventional and non-conventional deterrence. In this regard, we also welcome the establishment of the Counter hybrid support teams, which can, to some extent and on an ad hoc basis, assist the Allies concerned. I now turn to threats at the southern and south-eastern borders. In the South, widespread conflicts and instability in the Middle East and North Africa region have resulted in many casualties. This volatile and violent security situation is, as everyone knows, fertile ground for terrorist organisations, some of which are carrying out attacks on the countries of the European Union and the Alliance. In addition, the difficult situation in the North African region is also partly responsible for the high migratory pressure on Europe. NATO supports the actions of the international coalition against Daesh, in which there is a convincing consensus, with a view to continuing this fight against Daesh as long as this is essential. In recent years, Belgium has been working to improve the sharing of information with the intelligence services of the various allies. Belgium welcomes the progress made in the exchange of information in response to the Belgian request in Warsaw for more and better intelligence sharing. The Alliance also responds to external security challenges in the context of intensifying deterrence and strengthening collective defence. The aim is to strengthen NATO's common military structure. It is planned to approve a military structure comprising two new headquarters, one in the United States and the other in Germany. The structure should be increased by 1,231 troops. Belgium will assume its legitimate contribution to the bill of military personnel, starting at 21 men. The aim is also to increase the overall level of preparation. The objective of this initiative is to enable NATO to deploy 30 air combat units, 30 warships and 30 combat battalions within a maximum of 30 days. The Heads of State and Government will launch the initiative at this next summit. Another point relates to responsibility. In the event of a major security crisis in Europe, it is a matter of enabling the commander of NATO troops to move rapidly troops and equipment throughout Europe. Within this framework, areas of work are identified, such as national legislation, infrastructure or transport capacity. NATO is working very closely with the European Union, which has a project for military mobility in the framework of the Permanent European Structured Cooperation (PESCO). Belgium, which is geographically central, will ensure the necessary national coordination of all actors and contribute to the efforts to provide troops and equipment with timely and rapid passage. The government's crisis centre will be responsible for this coordination. I now turn to national resilience and civilian preparedness. Current hybrid threats cannot be combated by military means alone. Threats are technical, economic, communicative or terrorist in nature. On the basis of Article 3 of the Washington Treaty, individual States are personally responsible for national preparation, which will enable effective and timely national coordination, decision-making and enforcement. In this respect, the NATO and European Union guidelines are, in our view, fully complementary. The two organisations intend to prepare the civilian infrastructure and the population so that the Allies can individually resist external influences and interventions. The emergence of new threats such as cybersecurity and hybrid war have led to strategic and practical cooperation between NATO and the EU. Belgium fully supports this evolution. Nationally, the government crisis centre will coordinate and implement international commitments within the framework of the EU and NATO. A national structure for rapid and effective coordination, decisions and implementing measures is now being developed. A national contact point will be identified. It is now a question of addressing the issue of the projection of stability. This theme gives priority to cooperation with partners in the region and, of course, with the European Union where the Alliance focuses on these specific added values, namely strengthening defence and security capabilities in order to enable the partners involved to fight instability themselves. As far as Belgium is concerned, we believe that NATO has a role to play on its southern flank when it can bring clear added value in terms of security, in cooperation with a local, regional or international partner and when actions are coordinated with those of the European Union. The principle of local ownership and the need to enroll any military action in a political approach play an essential role. Belgium expects an inclusive approach to the formation of the Iraqi armed forces without distinction of religion or ethnic origin. Belgium supports a workable DCB with partners willing to use resources to project stability to the immediate European environment. For this purpose, Belgium will provide in 2018 financial support of EUR 600 000 for DCB activities in Jordan and Iraq, as well as Tunisia that will join the DCB partners at the NATO Summit. I now turn to the issue of Afghanistan and the specific support mission. NATO's actions in Afghanistan continue to prevent the country from becoming a safe haven for terrorism. The Resolute Support Mission provides training, advice and assistance to Afghan security forces in several areas. Today, 16,000 soldiers from 39 Allied and partner countries operate in Afghanistan. The NATO-Afghanistan partnership provides a framework for broad political dialogue and practical cooperation. We want to encourage the initiatives taken by the Afghan President over the past few months, in particular the proposal for peace negotiations with the Taliban and a ceasefire. Belgium has co-financed, up to $45 million, the Power Purchase Agreement project for the Afghan army over the past three years. Our country will release €8.2 million in 2018 by agreeing to the objective of financial support until 2024, with Belgium setting its contribution annually in this framework. This commitment of the international community must be accompanied by the commitment of the Afghan authorities to respect the rule of law, democracy, human rights and, in particular, the protection of children and gender equality, or still, the fight against corruption. I now turn to a central debate, which is not new: burden sharing. It is once again a topical issue and is reinforced by the US government, which has placed this item on the top of the agenda several times, but also by some European countries that are calling for a more balanced burden-sharing. In Wales, on 4 and 5 September 2014, the Heads of State and Government agreed through the DIP commitment to put an immediate end to any reduction in defence budgets, the Halt any Decline, and to move progressively towards a 2% contribution from their country. For some, the debate would be limited to the financial part, which is called cash. However, it also has two other dimensions: military capabilities and contributions. For Belgium as for other Allies, these dimensions form an inseparable whole, because they express not only the quantity, but also the quality of the contributions. In line with the Strategic Vision, Belgium still wishes to gradually join the NATO European countries. To this end, we will continue to implement the Strategic Vision for Defence. We want to make the planned investment of €9.4 billion in the equipment needed to reach an average of 1.3% of GDP for defence spending, i.e. the average for non-nuclear European NATO member states. Belgium will continue to strive to stop this systematic reduction of defence budgets, which has been done for 2018 and we will have, in a few weeks, the budgetary discussions regarding the 2019 budget. Decisions will have to be taken in this context. It will then be up to the next governments to take the necessary steps to change our country through the drafting of an addendum to the Strategic Vision, towards the average of the non-nuclear European NATO member states. Belgium also affirms its commitment to the fundamental principles of NATO and to the multilateral approach. I have already had the opportunity in this chamber to say our faith in multilateral engagement. I affirm once again that it is also this element that will inspire us when we hold a non-permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council from 2019 onward. One more word on relations with non-candidate Member States: Ukraine and Georgia. Both Ukraine and Georgia have been candidate countries since 2008 and are both facing the occupation of part of their territory by Russia. Belgium agrees with the decision of Heads of State or Government at the Bucharest Summit in 2008 that Georgia and Ukraine will become members of NATO, but the current security situation in both countries does not allow these steps to be taken. With regard to the efforts made by Prime Ministers Tsipras and Zaev on the question of the name of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, we consider that the coming months will be crucial for the successful conclusion of the agreement. Referendums are planned. In our view, the international community must support and encourage both parties. Belgium is in favour of inviting the country to start the accession process. Even if it is important, I will say no more than a few words about the relations between the European Union and NATO. The process of collaboration has been initiated. We are very much in favour of encouraging all efforts to strengthen this strategic capacity of the European Union within NATO. In order to strengthen this cooperation, steps should be taken in this direction at this summit to be held in Brussels next week. Finally, I will conclude with a few words of introduction, telling you that we have the firm will to remain a loyal and credible partner in NATO. We also have a strong commitment to promoting important values in our eyes, such as multilateralism. On the sidelines of this multilateral meeting of the NATO summit, we will certainly have the opportunity to have several bilateral, political contacts. This will enable us to ensure that this ambition to maintain a strong transatlantic alliance is widely shared. I would like to conclude this introduction by thanking all the security services in our country, and also the various services that have already begun to work logistically to ensure that the great international meeting of this Brussels Summit, which will bring together dozens of high-level delegations, can be a success. It will reflect our European and international roots, and will establish our credibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u3	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his introduction and now give the floor to Mr Crusnière for his speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u4	Mr President, I thank the Prime Minister and the Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Defence for their presence on the eve of an important NATO summit, which will provide direction and set priorities for the coming years. Prime Minister, you explained the issues at stake. I would like to speak on three points. The first concerns nuclear disarmament, which you have not mentioned. A few months ago, we adopted a resolution in which it was intended that the Government should firmly include Belgium in the fight for nuclear disarmament, in multilateral negotiations to enable our territory to be freed from any nuclear presence. This is essential for us, in multilateral negotiations, I insist. It has been over a year and I wanted to know if there has been any progress in this area. Has this point been raised in some forums? Personally, do you intend to put this item on the agenda at this NATO summit? The second point concerns the budget. Member States must increase their financial contribution to the European defence project. For my group, the budgetary solution must be European. You also referred to cooperation between Europe and NATO. I repeat, for us, the budgetary solution must be European at a time when all the budgets of the Member States and the European Union are under pressure. Care must be taken not to reduce the budget for investment programmes in cohesion and social matters. We remain convinced that the problem is not that of the money spent by the Member States in the field of defence, but that of the lack of mutualisation and synergy – which we regret – in terms of both human, material and logistical resources. The European Union has been able to set an example of peace and the prevention of global conflicts – which has earned it a Nobel prize – also because we have invested in our social security systems and in particularly high and binding social stabilisation standards. I would stress that this achievement cannot, of course, be jeopardized by the "everything to security", which would only be a short-term solution that could ultimately lead to new global threats due to increased poverty and wider discrimination. Let us never forget the need to involve Defence, but also diplomacy and development – in short, the 3D strategy – in the global approach to our action. I remind you frequently here, as well as in the Committee on External Relations. I would therefore like to hear more from you on this subject. I turn briefly to relations between the European Union and NATO. You stressed the need for a process of collaboration between these institutions, in the context of European emancipation within the Atlantic Organisation, where – with a view to a constructive and complementary approach – the voice and positions of the European Union must be strengthened. In addition, NATO's role has evolved in recent years in the light of international change. In this sense, like you, we want a very strong NATO-European Union partnership, but in which the role of the European Union's High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, as well as that of the European Parliament and the Assemblies of the Member States, should be strengthened. The European Union represents a constantly changing political project, as well as a continuous improvement and deepening. If NATO existed well before any European defence embryo, its structures must now keep up with its evolution. In my opinion, that is the meaning of history. In this context, we wish to fully integrate ourselves into the CFSP and the European Defence Fund, particularly in the areas of training and major purchases, taking also into account our industrial interests. The absence of such criteria in the "market of the century" is incomprehensible to us. My colleague will come back. What is your vision in this regard, in particular on the need to strengthen European Defence, including human, strategic and industrial defence within the Alliance itself? To have a truly complete insight, what is the organisation of this NATO summit in terms of human resources for all security services?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u5	Prime Minister, you have obviously decided to refer my previous question on the replacement of the F-16s to the Minister of Defence. This question related to the note that the same minister is due to table in the Council of Ministers in the near future. It seems to me that, given the great cacophony reigning in your government regarding "the market of the century", it is up to you to respond to the House in order to set out once and for all your government's official position on this procedure, the status of France's partnership offer and the options for extending our aircraft. As we learned from the press that the full version of the French proposal would never have been officially tabled to the entire government and that the Defence Cabinet would never have really analyzed this option, this was confirmed by the Defence Minister in committee last week. The latest statements from both your Minister of Defence and the President of the N-VA have once again shown that your positions seemed to be entirely up to you. In spite of your multiple recadrages, the N-VA president once again excluded, last week on the VRT plateaux, the Rafale and the extension of the F-16s, options to be explored with a view to replacing the fighter aircraft. According to him, "the French fighter plane Rafale is not a good plan. He's not performing well enough for our defense. The extension of the F-16s is also excluded: 3.4 billion for an apparatus that makes it possible to do nothing, it makes no sense." I would therefore like to know, Mr Prime Minister, what the current state of the procedure is from your point of view. Is this shared by all members of your government as well as by all the trainings the component? Will this issue be before our assembly before the final decision is made? What criteria will the government use to make its decision? Last February, you said to me in plenary session: "However, when the time comes, the whole dossier will be submitted to the government with the offers that have been introduced under the procedure and the various proposals for strategic partnership." So what about the strategic partnership status proposed by France, or even other options such as the extension of our current F-16s? Has your firm been able to analyse the fullness of the documents submitted in this context by France and possibly ask for further information?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u6	Mr President, if I understand correctly, you are proposing that I address my inquiry and then my questions and comments on the NATO summit. If you will, I will reverse things because it makes more sense to approach the general and then turn to this particular issue of renewing our fleet of combat aircraft. Prime Minister, I thank you and all of your colleagues for coming to Parliament to present the outline of this extremely important summit. I think you will agree with me: the Atlantic Alliance is the alliance that has lasted the longest in military and security terms, the most important and most effective probably in recent human history and probably in human history. We contributed to it and welcomed its seat. For many years, we have been a modest but operational reliable partner, present in most situations where peace or security issues were important and where we have actually made our contribution. Chairperson: Benoit Hellings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u7	We remained united and managed to adapt. With regard to the question of the union of these nations on security issues, the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, made a statement a few days ago, which you may not have escaped. I read: "Transatlantic relations are under immense pressure because of President Trump's policies. Unfortunately, the divisions extend to the case of trade. I think that while we hope for the best, we must be ready to prepare our Union for the worst-case scenarios." This is a very strong statement from such a prominent political leader. He added that it was necessary to prepare for perhaps even greater difficulties in the future with our American ally. I'd like to know if you shared that concern. How do you analyse the evolution of the situation? President Trump recently stated at a meeting in North Dakota that NATO was a bad alliance. Should we expect very serious difficulties regarding the stability of this alliance in the coming months and years, as President Trump and Donald Tusk seem to say? The second element on which I wish to question you is that of means. As an explanation or perhaps a pretext, President Trump has only one word in his mouth:I want my money back. He wants the Alliance's countries to increase their military budget to 2% of their GDP. Belgium did commit itself to this in 2014. You indicate that Belgium will make further efforts in the coming years. We'll see. Your Government is showing a proactive attitude, but it is primarily committed to future governments. Today, reality does not correspond to a reinvestment. You said we were going to reinvest from 2018. We'll see. We are not yet in December 2018. But with regard to 2017, we have succeeded in the extraordinary feat of being the only NATO Member State to see its military budget cut! Between 2016 and 2017, our military budget was reduced by 26 million euros. However, we were already leaving very low. Our Ambassador to NATO has allowed me to quote him: "We are on the budget in a catastrophic situation". This view is not only his, but also that of the Allies, the other NATO partner countries, who observe how our defence budget is evolving. Our government has made a mistake in this case. Yet he was happy to say that he was going to raise the bar and reinvest in the field of defence. We intend to reinvest in this, we have programmed reinvestments but we have cut our budgets! These figures are also reflected in NATO documents. You may like to challenge them, but these are entirely official papers. I regret that there have been, in particular, these issues of budget reduction, but not only. Indeed, we have significantly reduced our contribution to peacekeeping operations, international operations and continue to do so, which poses a major challenge. Indeed, most of the Allies had so far closed their eyes to our budgetary difficulties, because we were an important and loyal partner in military operations. We may have a poor figure in defence spending and budgets, but a good figure in risk-taking, that is, that ability to be a reliable operator in international security operations. How can we maintain this ambition, which will be above all an objective for your successor? I call for a clear and announced path to budgetary growth, as in the area of cooperation by law, and for an effort to be clearly indicated. I also call for it to be made clear that we will never arrive at this figure of 2%, that we will perhaps arrive at this figure of 1.3%, which is already a considerable effort for the Belgian budget. The figures announced today will have to be clarified. We are at 0.9% of GDP in 2017, but our military's share of pensions is substantial. In operational terms, we are at a figure of 0.6% of our GDP. This is the reality, today, of Belgium's defence spending, and this poses significant challenges for the future. Minister, what are the comments, discussions and criticisms you receive about this? How will Belgium continue to be a modest partner? It's not about exploding budgets. It is simply a matter of trying to do a little more, in the same order of magnitude as other European countries, and doing so with renewed capabilities. Minister, my third question concerns a few cases of countries that you have cited. In particular, you mentioned the special situation of Ukraine and Georgia. You know that Ukraine is very worried about the development of the Nord Stream 2 project, which it considers to be one of the elements of the hybrid war Russia wants to impose on it. Sweden has just agreed to this important pipeline. It would seem that only Denmark, today, still has to make a decision. Minister, what is the position of the Belgian Government in this respect? I believe that we do not need this new pipeline and that it is likely to generate strong tensions between some members of NATO and the European Union, and countries that are candidates for NATO membership. What is Belgium's position in this respect? As far as Ukraine and Georgia are concerned, you said, and I welcome it, that these countries must be able to join NATO, but that the security situation does not allow it today. These are your terms. What exactly does that mean? I recall that we had slowed down NATO membership because Russia considered it a provocation. Meanwhile, Russia has become an important factor of insecurity. It illegally occupies three countries: Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. It destabilizes our democracies through the manipulation of electoral processes. This standstill clause, which had prevailed because we had a possible partnership, or in any case special relations with Russia, no longer seems to me valid. I advocate that these countries, which fear for their security and stability, should be given the necessary support from NATO. Is it necessary to hear, because they are under illegal occupation by Russia, that they could not join NATO? In a way, it would then be a green light for Russia, as long as it occupies these countries, to be able to protect itself from the fact that NATO considers them to be potential candidates. Turkey also raises a question. You have repeatedly reminded us that NATO is a community of values and that we defend democracy and fundamental freedoms. We are very far from that today in Turkey. Moreover, that country had illegally invaded a neighbouring country and had thus violated the Charter of the United Nations and international law. In addition, he buys his weapons from Russia. What is the status of the discussions on this particular member country, whose situation remains fragile and could become more complicated? Syria – which you have hardly mentioned – remains an important failure on the issue of security in Europe. There is a tendency to believe that this conflict is resolved, but the country is still experiencing very serious difficulties, and the Islamic State is not yet fully defeated. There's a dictator at the head of Syria. There are millions of refugees who have fled to our countries, with all the difficulties we face. I am concerned that NATO does not feel so concerned about this issue. I did not hear that there were important political developments in Syria. Will this be discussed during your debates? I come back to the question of replacing our combat aircraft. There's been a new episode! Your Minister of Defence told me a few days ago that he had not been able to read the French offer because the French did not want to give it to him. He told me that he had contacted the French but that he had not managed to obtain this offer. Today, we learn that this is not the case! The Minister of Defence does not wish to analyze this offer for reasons of confidentiality or, at least, for reasons different from what was explained to us. In this case, trust is seriously damaged between the French government and your minister. I'd like to know how you're going to seriously and calmly analyze all the possibilities. It is not a question of favouring one over the other, but of calmly checking the offers that correspond to our strategic, military, industrial and budgetary stakes. I hope that this will be done seriously, avoiding ego or other, totally anecdotal issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u8	Who's the head of the government anyway? What did the government decide? Is she really in the process of implementing what she decided on June 15th? What progress has been made with the Prime Minister's promised transparency in the dossier? Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think very much of the way in which Minister Vandeput dealt with the dossier until 14 June. After June 15th we saw a cacophony, which had never been shown before in the most important purchase file of the coming decades. It amounts to EUR 15 billion over a period of 40 years. Prime Minister, I've been sitting here for almost 30 years and I have to tell you that I got carsick when I saw all the slaloms after your decision at the Council of Ministers on 15 June. That's where you announced two things. The first thing you promised was a detailed investigation. The second thing you promised was that there would be three slopes on the table, namely the slope of the purchase within the procedure, the slope of the purchase outside the Rafale procedure and the extension of the service life. I thought the matter was over, because when the Prime Minister draws a dossier and makes it a Chefsache, it is expected, as in any normal country, clarity and clarity. However, as regards the Rafale, your Minister for Defence said that this proposal was completely outside the procedure and was not an option. You call him to order and he'll be back in line with the government. Next, the shadow prime minister, the big boss of Antwerp, says on 24 June in The Seventh Day that the Rafale is excluded, because the plane can't do anything and that we in Europe are aviation technology miles behind the US. That is yet another hint that the N-VA wants nothing but the F-35. It's not over yet. On June 27th, the Secretary of Defense will be questioned here and what does he say? Against the promised meticulous examination, he states that he will examine the Rafale proposal on the basis of the letter and the 35 slides he already has, and that he has already done the examination of the extension of his life, for which he has given figures in the Chamber. My question to you, Prime Minister, is are you in charge of the government? Is it you who decides whether the three traces of thought are being examined meticulously? If so, will the investigation be more than what the Secretary of Defense announced here last week? Then that investigation will be based on the Rafale's entire file, right? Moreover, I hope that the research on the extension of the F-16's life span will be more extensive than the studies and figures he has distributed. His interkabinet note in 2015 referred to a cost for extending the lifespan of €2.1 billion. Here he said a few weeks ago that it was 271 million euros. Harold Van Pee, the head of the Air Combat Capacity Program (ACCaP), said in committee that six years longer flying with the F-16 would save 30 million euros a year or 180 million euros a year. That is something different than 271 million euros. On the basis of figures from the US Court of Auditors, we can prove that the savings per year are EUR 150 million, multiplied by six, that is EUR 900 million. Mr Prime Minister, surely you will not accept that the study of your Minister of Defence, who is contradicted by the head of ACAP and by figures from the US Court of Auditors, will be the starting point for the evaluation? Do you not think it is absolutely necessary for external independent experts to examine the traces of thinking and all manipulations in the file? [[Rumor]] There is a need to clarify the different figures, plus 2.1 billion from the Secretary of Defense and minus 900 million from the US Court of Auditors, which will certainly not bring the study of the Secretary of Defense. For my third and final question I refer to what you said in plenary on 22 March, Prime Minister, namely that Parliament is entitled to all reliable information, in full transparency. Mr Prime Minister, when will you present to us the detailed examination of the three slopes promised by you on 15 June after the Council of Ministers, at least if you are still chief of your government? As for NATO, when I saw you three, I thought of the three well-known figurines. Is the government blind, is the government deaf or dares not speak of the elephant in the chamber. Mr Prime Minister, when I listened to you this way, the NATO meeting seemed business as usual, a normal NATO meeting, but the elephant in the room is Mr Trump. Is the government blind or does it not dare to say that Mr Trump is in the process of destroying the world order set up by the US itself after the Second World War, in which NATO is a building block, while the Europeans and you, the prime minister, have adopted a European security strategy based on global governance and effective multilateralism? We in Europe need that, but our partner from the US is destroying that multilateral order. It's obvious to Trump. He only has an eye for American interests. It's just America first. Worse still, he does not care about the interests of his partners, he does not care about the interests of Europe. He's starting a trade war. He's blowing up the Paris climate agreement. He is playing with fire in the Middle East, a powder keg which every person with political common sense understands that one must seek stabilization. But Mr Trump is going to look for the confrontation! He gives blank cheques to Mr Netanyahu, he gives billions of dollars in arms to Saudi Arabia, all with the message to seek confrontation with Iran. Prime Minister, who will bear the consequences when the Middle East is on fire? That is not the United States, it is the Europeans. He takes zero point zero percent into account our interests. The key word of his security strategy........... is competition with China and with Russia. He wants to trump them militarily: he has approved the biggest increase in the defence budget in the United States and now demands that we Europeans follow up and put more money into it. Shall we do that, Prime Minister? Will we finance a policy of our own that we know is at greatest risk? That is why I am shocked by the introduction earlier: business as usual. It is clear, Prime Minister, that the moment of truth has come. I do not want to blow up NATO, but the long-standing 70-year marriage of Europeans and Americans in NATO cannot go on like this. We need to get a LAT relationship: living apart together. We cannot blindly follow the United States in the policy they are trying to impose on us through NATO. We have a fucking duty to the more than 500 million Europeans to think about our own interests. I regret that there is not enough work to be done. My question to you and to the Foreign Minister is whether it is indeed business as usual with NATO? Do you not think that the time has come to draw our conclusions and declare that we will not always follow the United States? On the one hand, there will be times when we will not follow you if that goes against our interests. On the other hand, we want a military structure in which Europe itself has the capacity to act autonomously and no longer experience the situation as it is today, in which we are still dependent on American military support, which is undoubtedly part of a deliberate policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u9	Président: Dirk Van der Maelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u10	Prime Minister, I have only two questions regarding the project to replace the F-16s. In the Defence Committee, the Minister responsible has repeatedly confirmed to us that the only formal correspondence he received from the French Minister of Defence is a letter from a few pages from early September last year. Can you confirm that the government has not received any other formal proposals from the French authorities? If this is the case, which member of the government has received this proposal? What's the content? Secondly, have you received all the elements to prepare a decision at government level? If not, what elements are still missing to complete the government contract that was launched by the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have heard your presentation on the vision Belgium will defend at this NATO summit. That doesn't reassure me. Indeed, the times are serious in global tensions; and you seem to be failing to integrate the fact that the United States, the main military component of NATO, is resolutely changing its political and military strategy in the world. They multiply aggressive statements against sovereign countries. I am referring, for example, to Iran, an important country in the balance of this region of the world. I did not hear you say that, for Belgium, it was out of the question for NATO to engage in a process of strength building in this region, in order to fuel the tension that President Trump would like to establish there. Prime Minister, will you plead at this NATO summit for a break between the European countries on the one hand and the United States of America on the other, and for a ban on NATO joining forces with the issues that are now affecting the Middle East? My second question is about money. We know that President Trump sent you a letter, which apparently did not impress you. Beyond the formulas, there is a very clear demand from President Trump whether Belgium will commit to spending 2% of its GDP on military spending. It's huge! When we see what you justify as social cuts for less than that in Belgium: cuts in the pension budget, in the social benefits, the austerity measures that you justify because there is no money in the state funds. But if it's for a military budget, there's no problem! Do you agree with Trump's claim of 2%? Or are you going to tell him today through this committee that he has nothing to say to Belgium and that we are not going to commit ourselves to spending that 2%? There must be a political response, Prime Minister. If all NATO member countries committed to it, it would cost EUR 119 billion. Given the socially difficult situation on the European continent, this question deserves a very clear answer. My third point concerns the dossier of the F-16s and the link to the NATO summit. You have said that there will be an independent investigation into the various options, including the French Rafale option. A few days later, the Prime Minister of this country, Mr De Wever, said: "We are not even going to study the Rafale planes. That proposal doesn't make any sense." It is clear that Mr De Wever has taken that political stance because the NATO summit is coming and Mr Trump is demanding that Belgium, which is not yet 2% of the budget, will still make a major investment in the F-35. The NATO summit will also be about the modernisation of nuclear weapons, in particular the B-61 nuclear weapons which can only be supported by the F-35. NATO's nuclear capability will therefore be modernised, particularly for the 61-12 bombs, which can only be transported by the F-35. Prime Minister, who is right in your government? We should be consistent at the NATO summit! Are we going to study the Rafale option or are we going to tell Mr Trump to be reassured because, even if we do not yet reach our 2%, we are going to invest heavily in the new F-35s? And this NATO summit will be quite brilliant! The fourth point that I think is important is that of NATO's overall strategy. At the time of the collapse of the Soviet Union, NATO had committed itself not to extend eastward. NATO had assured the Eastern countries not to want a new cold war. A strong commitment was made to the Russian authorities at the time. He wasn't respected. Poland, Bulgaria, the Baltic countries, all these countries have been incorporated into NATO, not only officially but also militarily. We have recently witnessed the transfer of more or less 2,000 American military devices to the Baltic States. Prime Minister, what strategy will you defend for NATO? Will we continue to inflate the muscles and send troops to Russia? Or are we going to argue for a de-escalation? Will we plead for the Eastern countries to be more neutral, to avoid a military confrontation with Russia? On a show, I heard you talk about Russia's influence in the region. You're right, and that's unacceptable. But we must recognize that the intrusion of the United States and Europe into the region is not nothing! Just see the number of Radio Free Europe. Russia did not bring to the West a quarter of a fifth of the number of programs that the West brought there. There is no comparison possible. Let's stop this hypocrisy! I am not going to have to recall here the number of Western interventions in sovereign countries? Iraq, Libya, Afghanistan, African countries, the Democratic Republic of the Congo (for 50 or 60 years)... If Europe and the United States have a diplomatic-military and geopolitical tradition, it is that of intervening in the internal affairs of other countries. The most powerful secret services in the world are present in more or less every country in the world. The United States is even in one in two countries through military bases. I agree with the fact that we need a de-escalation. But if we are talking about non-intrusion in the internal affairs of countries, which is normally a subject for the United Nations, we must mention the multiple intrusions of NATO countries into the internal affairs of other countries. Fifth point. What is your assessment of the intervention in Libya? A debate must still be held on this issue. Belgium could recognize that it has majestically planted itself there. I heard on the part of France, half-worded, that "it's true, maybe it wasn't the best". Ladies and gentlemen, but say that it is a clear failure, a mistake to have voted in the Federal Parliament, almost unanimously, for the bombings! Say so, in such a way that our Prime Minister has the moratorium to say at the NATO summit that this is a scandal and that we have made a complete mistake in our intervention! But I do not hear such words in our assembly. Prime Minister, are you going to go back to NATO's overall strategy, which is not based on defence but on attack? This issue is of paramount importance. We have moved into a very aggressive phase of NATO, not at all focused on defending our territory, but rather on attacking other territories. This strategic discussion is important and this importance will increase in the months and years to come with war dangers to Iran. This danger is very great if we allow ourselves to be led by Mr Trump's policy. Behind Iran are Chinese interests. The United States of America has its strategy of encircling China from a commercial point of view. But commercial war is always a prelude to a military war. I hope that European policy will not support these aims of American policy. Belgium must take a strong position at the summit, refuse to overbid President Trump and go towards a multipolar world, more guaranteeing peace than the current proposals of the United States of America and therefore of NATO.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u12	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the Secretary General of NATO, at the end of June, invited Belgium to finally take a decision on investments in new fighter aircraft. You suggested that you did not want to lock yourself up within the time frame of an ultimatum related to the holding of the NATO summit on the grounds, it seems, that the procedures required that the decision could not take place within that time limit but more particularly in October next, at the end of the period of validity of the offers. You have recalled, and I consider that this is overtaken by any other statement heard in your majority, that the government has committed, according to Belga, "to launch a procedure for replacing the F-16s with the development of a working group of experts that will have to analyse the three different possibilities that will be deliberated by the executive. These experts will look at the arguments for an extension of the current F-16s, the tenders submitted in the framework of the tender, and also the proposal of the French Government for a strategic partnership with the participation of Germany." There is no doubt that the proposal made by the French Government and its President does not meet the legal framework currently laid down by the Government. Therefore, putting this proposal on the same footing as others is tantamount to accepting bias. In reality, it is primarily a proposal of political choice. In its conclusions, the last European Summit reiterated the need to increase investment capacity and the affirmation of European defence. There will be no European defence if there is no development of a military industry in Europe, of own investment, if there is no choice of European armaments, if there is not the will to equip ourselves tomorrow with European technology that gives the ability of the European Union to have autonomy for its defence. This seems to me an increasingly obvious need in the light of certain geopolitical developments. I'm just asking you one question, Prime Minister. Do we want to affirm a European preference, which for my party takes precedence over other considerations, whether purely economic, budgetary or operational? There is also a strong controversy over the operationality of the F-35. Should we not therefore consider that your Government should agree to hold a preliminary debate on whether or not to continue the current procedure? Do you think that at any point this debate will take place, or is it permanently excluded? Indeed, a partner of your majority formally excludes it. Personally, I take credit for you. I'm not one of those who let himself be impressed by the blackmail of a partner of the majority. But then we will have to be assured that you agree to hold this debate prior to the continuation of the current procedure. In other words, you cannot put the French partnership on the same level or compare it with the analysis of the tenders submitted in the context of the call for tenders. This is legally incompatible and politically ineffective. I would like to make sure, Mr Prime Minister, that a preliminary debate will take place on the need to build European armaments. In this respect, the French offer may be in line with objectives that the European Summit has once again recalled recently.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u13	Prime Minister, Ministers, I apologise for my late arrival, but I had a few things to discuss in the Infrastructure Committee. So I missed the explanatory statement. Next week there will be an important NATO summit of Heads of State or Government. The importance of this summit cannot be sufficiently underlined in the light of the international topicality and the dossiers that will be on the table there. In order to fall into the house, Prime Minister, the US President has sent you a letter asking our country to implement the decision of the NATO summit in Wales in 2014 to spend 2% of GDP on defence in the framework of Burden Sharing. Belgium has made a number of efforts in this direction in recent years, which means that we are now at a rate of 0.91%, including pensions. Of course, we are still far from the 2%. Prime Minister, I have a number of questions about this. Firstly, could you perhaps briefly explain what is in President Trump's letter to our country? What's your reaction to that? Secondly, what will Belgium's response be to the NATO summit on the subject of Burden Sharing? It is not just about 2%, but also about important investments in defence equipment. So we get to the file of the replacement of the F-16. That dossier has always been linked to the NATO summit in recent weeks and months. However, I would like to make it very clear here that a decision on the F-16 is wrongly linked to the NATO summit. The NATO summit has never been a deadline for the completion of the F-16 dossier. I am sure colleagues have already pointed out that your government drew up a new timeline on 15 June. In doing so, you postpone the deadline for the decision on the replacement of the F-16s until mid-October, instead of next week. You also propose three actions. Firstly, you will look at the offers of the two candidates. Secondly, you will examine the possibilities for a possible extension. Thirdly, you asked the French for more information on their proposal. On 22 June, the Minister for Defence stated in De Morgen that the French proposal is outside the procedure, I quote: 'You cannot pretend that the French are in the procedure. The government can't just invent new rules." That is, I believe, a correct statement by the Minister of Defence. Two days later, together with many colleagues, in De Seventhe Dag, N-VA chairman Bart De Wever, we heard that the choice for the Rafale, according to him, a plane that can't do anything, is excluded. Then what will you do with the 15 June decision? How should we assess the reaction of the President of a government party? You're in charge of the government. You're Prime Minister. I trust that your ruling of 15 June will be taken into account that three elements will be included in the final decision. I find it quite remarkable, to say the least, that a chairman of a government party is undermining your statement. Mr Prime Minister, I would have liked you to clarify that. What will happen to Rafale's offer as part of the replacement of the F-16s? Mr Prime Minister, I would like to touch on my next point, namely the capacity and commitment. You opened the new building for the NATO seat last week. What commitments will Belgium make in NATO over the coming months and years? Can we expect new things in this area? Since 2016, Cybernetics has been a new operational domain for NATO, alongside land, air and sea. Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, can you explain the importance of NATO in cyber security? To what extent will Belgium include commitments in this respect? Can you also explain how Belgium adheres to the 2016 cyber defence pledge to make cybersecurity a priority in our cyber defense? The European Union will increasingly manifest itself in the field of defence in the coming years. We discussed a motion for a resolution on the development of European defence in the Committee on Defence this morning. How do you estimate the dynamics of NATO on the one hand and the European Union on the other? Will it eventually lead to divisions within the European Union and within NATO? After all, NATO is developing a group of EU-NATO countries. Is that where you're expecting a certain field of tension? How can we, as Belgium, with the headquarters of NATO and the European Union, play a binding role in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u14	Many questions have already been asked, so I will not repeat what has already been said. Of course, we cannot deny that our transatlantic relations are under very strong pressure today and are being put to the test. Recent experiences with President Trump at international meetings have very often shown that the United States is trying to pursue its own course. There was the withdrawal from the Paris climate agreement and from the nuclear deal with Iran. In addition, there was the decision not to sign the G7's final declaration and there were the increased import rates. It doesn't really stop. This, of course, will not make our relationship with America and NATO any easier. After all, we are faced with a very changing and unpredictable security situation. When we think about Europe's security, we need strong NATO. Strong NATO is only possible with a stable and strong transatlantic relationship with the United States. Will this transatlantic relationship within that security context be confirmed at the forthcoming NATO summit? After all, security is the main objective of that alliance. It is important to confirm that at that summit. A second important element is the relationship between NATO and Russia. That relationship stays tense. Russia continues to mobilise on the eastern and southern borders of NATO and recently even decided to place the dual-capacity missile system in Kaliningrad. There is also no political solution to East Ukraine. At the last NATO summit in Warsaw, it was decided to focus on dialogue and credible deterrent in relations with Russia. Fortunately, a dialogue has now started again. Recently, talks were finally resumed at Ambassador level at the NATO/Russia Council on 31 May, among other things. What were the results of those meetings? Has our country played a role in this too? There is also talk of the extension of NATO towards the countries of Georgia, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. What's your perspective on membership? What position will our country take to include these new members on the east flank of the alliance?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u15	Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence for their presence. This is a fundamental issue, well beyond the problem of the forthcoming NATO summit. My colleague, Richard Miller, will specifically address the issue of our relations with Russia. Ministers, at the next summit, I imagine that the first thing you will have to do is convince the American President of the usefulness of NATO. Indeed, today, signals are being issued that, in President Trump's leadership, question the credibility of NATO, the European Union, NAFTA and, finally, many agreements that the United States itself has initiated, accepted or endorsed for many years. This is an opportunity for Europe, as it has always progressed when it was in difficulty. He was seen at the time of the Berlin Wall and the Iron Curtain. These are the times when Europe has made the most progress. It is obviously not a question of disintegration from the Atlantic Alliance, but of the contrary. I think that, when we draw a realistic picture, the protection of the United States is, more than ever, necessary in a world which, contrary to what my distinguished colleague Hedebouw has said, is not unipolar. It is already multipolar today, with major powers such as China, India, Brazil and others that are growing in power and are taking an increasingly important part in the international forum. As you pointed out, Minister, this is a time when Europe must take the bull by the horns for its own defence and for the unification of its defence. Unfortunately, as the Minister of Defence pointed out at the time when several Members asked him about the problem of the European helicopter, at present, in the way we operate, we do not have a version of this helicopter but 24 or 27. It's completely aberrant! The minister also stressed that the training of officers should also be as unified as possible, so as not only to have a training but also a European defence mentality. Our European Defence must have some credibility. Unfortunately, however, we are far from the point of view. Despite the funds allocated within the European Union to promote the unification of European armaments, many more years will be needed. To get back to Mr Trump's problem, I think he will have to be convinced, convinced and convinced again. I think it's possible. Just see what happened with Korea. Finally, after a categorical "no" by Mr Trump and near-threats of war between the United States and Korea, a few months ago, we are in another configuration today. Beyond the United States, NATO itself asks questions not in terms of attractiveness, - it has never been so attractive to more and more candidates - but because, within NATO itself, some countries adopt behaviours that can be described as unacceptable. Let us take the example of Turkey! Seeing a NATO member country joining Russia to invade northern Syria, admit it's rather amazing! This happened when there was a conflict between Turkey and Russia over a plane, we remember. It would be time, perhaps in the light of the election which is now over and which took place under the difficult conditions in Turkey, to put the clock on the Turkish partner, not to mention the human rights problems. As far as the budgetary plan is concerned, I have heard extremely contradictory things here. I have heard people say that more needs to be done and more needs to be done, on the contrary, to do less and move on to a multipolar, peaceful world, etc. I see, back there, the big teeth of a few powers but you don't have to share my opinion. What amazes me is that some people are criticizing a certain increase in the budgetary effort that we are going to make in the coming years. Indeed, we are moving forward at our own pace. These people may forget that it was in September 2014 that a certain Prime Minister made very firm commitments in Wales. The logic of what was decided in its time should therefore be followed. I'd like to ask you a few more questions. I am thinking first of Afghanistan and Operation Resolute Support, to which an additional 3,000 trainers have been assigned. Negotiations have thus begun for the financing of Afghan forces over the period 2020-2024. The objective is always to demonstrate to the Taliban that they cannot win militarily and that a political process of negotiation is necessary. Has there been a consensus within NATO, both in terms of decision-making, on funding and on the direction to be taken? I would also like to ask you about cooperation with the European Union. A total of 74 areas of cooperation have been identified, including the fight against cyberattacks. I recently visited Lithuania with a parliamentary delegation. We met with NATO officials, who reminded us of how constant cyber attacks on this and other countries are. When Mr Hedebouw explained to me earlier that the United States and NATO would represent the only threats, it made me laugh a bit. Indeed, Russian forces do not hesitate to enter Latvian and Lithuanian territories. Fortunately, the European and American forces are present to prevent a real incursion! As far as I know, a neutral country such as Sweden, which is led by a socialist and ecological coalition - so everything to be sure, I imagine, in the eyes of some - does not hesitate to re-establish military service, to organise collective and civic defence services or to remilitarize its main island, situated between Sweden and the Baltic countries. This shows that concerns are being expressed. I'll finish this for now. In any case, Prime Minister and Ministers, I would like to thank you for all your attention to these fundamental issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u16	Last year there was a NATO meeting in Brussels following the opening of the NATO building. That is where the American President has been rudely addressing European leaders about the contribution of European countries to NATO. That was an inappropriate and embarrassing moment, and I hope it doesn't happen again next week. The government has received a letter from the American President. The question has already been asked by Mr Yüksel: has the government answered officially? If so, what is the content of that answer? Will you be in bilateral contact with the American President next week? I already gave you that hint in plenary. After Merkel and Macron, perhaps you should speak to him one-on-one. If that's possible, what message will you give him? After the NATO summit and after the World Cup final in which Belgium is hopefully playing, President Trump will meet President Putin in Helsinki. Will the NATO summit next week attempt to synchronise the US and NATO positions? Or doesn't the American president speak as a NATO member when he meets Putin?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have four questions to ask. First question. Last year in Warsaw, for the first time in NATO's history, the issue of the survival or persistence of tactical nuclear weapons emerged in the conclusions of the summit. It was a first. What is planned for the summit in relation to these tactical weapons? American nuclear weapons are on European soil and, in particular, in Belgium, in Limburg in Kleine-Brogel. Second question. There is a great risk that the elephant that Mr. Van der Maelen breaks a lot of porcelain at the NATO headquarters or the museum where you're going to receive it. Mr Trump is a real political problem. For the summit on 11 and 12 July, has the question of European defence in the framework of NATO or the European pillar in the framework of NATO been prepared at European level? What tactics have been decided? Were all European allies partners in this meeting? At the time of the summit, are intra-European meetings planned? Are caucuses between EU partners planned? I am thinking in particular of our closest allies, the French and the Germans. Third question. You have rightly spoken, Prime Minister, of the emergence of hybrid threats. Today, what threatens the European Union and our country, we have had a hard time in the last two years, is asymmetrical wars. You have taken the example of Afghanistan and the Resolute Support Mission. It has been seventeen years that either NATO or NATO allies are in Afghanistan. The purpose of this mission was to dislodge the Taliban. Mr Flahaux, I am sorry, but seventeen years later NATO is still in this country and the Taliban are there too! At a minimum, we must be logical and consider that the tactics applied in Afghanistan did not work, since the political objective we rightly set ourselves seventeen years ago was not achieved. The Taliban are still in Afghanistan and still represent a threat, so much so that you will discuss it in Brussels in a few days' time. Fourth question. It concerns the replacement market for F-16s. The tactics that have been in place in Afghanistan for the past seventeen years are either bombardments by bomber fighters, such as those that we may be buying up to 34 in the coming months and years, or murders targeted by remotely controlled drones mainly from the United States, but not just from the United States. Is it appropriate to invest $15 billion over 40 years to buy combat aircraft that, in the case of Afghanistan, have not been useful? The Taliban bombings in Afghanistan over the past seventeen years have shown no evidence of military effectiveness – the Taliban are still there – and in political terms – the Taliban are still threatening. At the time the RfGP, the specification was issued by the Minister of Defence, we were in a certain geopolitical context. Several months later, this situation changed fundamentally. This is not your fault: no one could foresee Trump's emergence and the disastrous choice of the British to leave the European Union. But today it would be very inappropriate to buy either an American or a British plane. And we are clear, we have not changed our mind about it: we must not buy it at all, for the strategic and political reasons I have just mentioned, and I have taken the example of Afghanistan. If you were to join a European programme, whether it is French or later Franco-German, I strongly encourage you on behalf of the defence of the budget challenge, which is still colossal, to mobilise Article 8 of the specifications: "The government does not commit itself to buying aircraft even if it has produced a specification and has launched a contract." Why? Because if you engage in a procedure negotiated in French, the American and British manufacturers will bring legal remedies to Belgium that will have potentially significant budgetary impacts, as far as the market of the century is concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, I will be very brief. A large number of points have already been raised. Prime Minister, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Defence, many questions have been addressed to you, particularly by the President, whose right it is. Many of these questions tended to make you look naive, as if your government, your services and yourself had not perceived the importance of the summit of 11 and 12 July, for our security and for European stability, and as if you had not listened to the recent statements of the US President. Considering the journey that has already been accomplished by your government, which had been called suicide bombers – to stay in an aeronautical directory, – I think that is not the case. I am sure that you know exactly how to approach this extremely important summit and the complexity of what will be discussed there, given all the criteria, the elements, the difficulties, the problems of all kinds that will be dealt with there. You will, of course, answer the questions that have been addressed to you. I wanted to point out something that may have happened quite quickly. It was quickly stated by you, Prime Minister. But in my view, it is essential in your presentation. You have indicated the dual strategic vision of your government, which you and Mr. Reynders have already put into practice. I would remind you that you are almost the only one, at European level, who has already visited Moscow. You have always insisted on the need to maintain dialogue. I'm talking about this dual strategic concession. I would remind you, Prime Minister, that it is a matter of having a firm attitude and not accepting the rather aggressive drifts on the part of Russia, while maintaining the dialogue with this great country, with which Europe shares the Eurasian territory. You went to Moskou. No one has, moreover, stressed one point which is of great importance: Donald Trump announced that after the summit on 11 and 12 July, he himself would go to Helsinki on 16 July to meet Vladimir Putin. He said he wanted to get along with Russia. I am not saying that the key is Russia, but I continue to believe that this two-pillar must be maintained: on the one hand, NATO and European defence and, on the other, the maintenance of relations and dialogue between the European Union and Russia. I will recall a sentence from Soljenitsyne, who said in 1994: "The United States and the European Union do not understand enough the need for a dialogue with Russia." Donald Trump has thought about it and I am glad to know that this is also your case. I hope that is the position you are defending at European level. In my view, it is of crucial importance to maintain a balance on European soil. Finally, our group continues to welcome the decision to replace the F-16s. I also welcome the procedure that has been put in place and followed, including all the legal guarantees contained therein.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u19	This has put an end to the questions put by my fellow Members. The Prime Minister can now replicate for the first time. I assume that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and, if necessary, the Minister for Defence will add something to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u20	Mr. Chairman, there have been many questions, questions and comments. I will try to react as broadly as possible to the points raised. With regard to the organisation of the summit, 2,400 police officers and nearly 1,000 military personnel were mobilized, not to mention the logistical dimension. I commend those who will try to make this international event a success for the image and credibility of our country. A second important point is the relationship between the European Union and NATO. I have listened carefully and apparently some would like a confrontation, a choice between NATO or the European Union. That's not the government's strategy. We believe that a strong transatlantic alliance is and remains crucial. At the same time, we believe that a European Union with a strong defence project is also crucial. I will answer Mr Hellings' question immediately. A few days ago, the 28 Heads of State and Government met Jens Stoltenberg at the last European summit in Brussels to prepare for the summit. I note that in the last two or three years we have taken huge steps in the right direction at European level. I am thinking, for example, of the concrete projects under PESCO. Two years ago, there was a first signal in Warsaw when Jens Stoltenberg and the European leaders signed a cooperation agreement. The intention is to make additional commitments at European level within the framework of NATO in the margins of the Brussels Summit. Belgium is trying to play an important role in this. For example, we are leader of drone cooperation. That is a concrete and strong commitment. In the coming weeks and months, I will do everything I can, together with colleagues at European level, to make progress on a European strategy for our mixed defence. Some here would like to oppose NATO's choice and the choice of the European Union. We have the ambition to strengthen a European defence within the framework of a strong strategic partnership with NATO. I will not do any romanticism on this subject, but after the two major world wars, the world has gradually set up a multilateral whole: the European Union, NATO, the United Nations, trade-related organizations. As I have said on several occasions, we are committed supporters of multilateralism because, in addition to the strong bilateral relations we have with many States – including those whose values, same practices, and the same vision of the world are not shared spontaneously – we believe that multilateralism brings a supplement of general interest, of best interest, in an attempt to create a better world. That remains a very strong ambition that we are defending. I would remind you that a few weeks ago our country was elected by 95% of the votes to the non-permanent seat in the Security Council. That proves our credibility. I want to say with a smile, Mr Hedebouw, that it is a Stalinist vote, which reflects Belgium's broad confidence in our credibility at the international level. It is also due, I think, to the expertise of our diplomats in many subjects. This is a first point concerning the relations between the European Union and NATO, to tell you how we consider politically what will be important in the future. The second point concerns the geopolitical environment that has changed. Richard Miller rightly referred to this point. Some, in the opposition, would like to try to give an appearance of lack of lucidity. However, there is complete clarity in us as to how the world is evolving, and especially in recent months and years. We have debates in plenary on a number of topics, whether it is the US strategy in the Near or Middle East, the issue of nuclear deal with Iran or climate change. Each time, without any ambiguity, the government defended views that were not consistent with those expressed by the Trump administration. A member quoted Donald Tusk's words in connection with Donald Trump's attitude at international level. Indeed, we received a debriefing last week after the G7 meeting in Canada. This was an important debriefing for the European leaders who were there. As I see it, multilateralism is being tested today. This means that it can also be an opportunity at European level to seize the opportunity to aspire as a European Union to a stronger geopolitical role, not necessarily in contradiction with NATO and NATO partners, but to defend our vision of the world and our geopolitical interests. I plead for a very rational dimension of the European Union with, on the security and defence fronts, a look at the world around us; in particular the conflicts in the South, on which I am not going to come back, but which concern some countries whose evolution needs to be looked at. I share Mr Dallemagne's view on Turkey. We must indeed pay attention to the way in which we should consider our future relations with that country. More generally, too, with the African continent, a large continent whose population explosion is known and whose important stakes concern growth, the emergence of a middle class, stability, conflict prevention and the mode of development. The situation in the North relates to the debate on Brexit. What brings the future to the Brexit? Does the Brexit mean that the UK would no longer be a partner in the future? No. I believe that the United Kingdom should remain an important partner at trade level and also at security level. That must be a top priority. We received a letter on this last week from Michel Barnier. It is not obvious because, as I have said, since March people have the impression that the British are negotiating more with the British than with the EU countries and with the European Commission. That is a problem, but I hope that in the next few weeks we will have more clarity and a clearer vision of the future in relation to relations with the United Kingdom. I'm getting to the transatlantic alliance. Some, because they do not share the convictions of a president, would like to consider that there is confusion between a president, an administration and a country. It has been 70 years since the gradual establishment of NATO, which has been very active in protecting security and stability in Europe. The European Union has played a key role. It is fair to say that there is a link between balanced, stable, harmonious and respectful trade and economic relations and peace and security. It's been true since ancient times. It'll be true tomorrow. I am delighted to receive lessons in geopolitics or diplomacy from those who have fought the agreements on CETA, whose multilateral approach was aimed precisely at balancing trade agreements. Today, they cry out for orfray when it comes to addressing the security issue within NATO. It is a blatant contradiction on the ideological level, of the world's vision. Thirdly, the Burden Sharing, the letter from Donald Trump, the preparation of the NATO summit. Mr Dallemagne, I appreciate the encouragement to do more and better compared to the past. What are we doing? Three years ago, on behalf of the government, I made a personal commitment to Jens Stoltenberg, namely Halt any Decline under this legislature. Mr Dallemagne, I am not going to engage with you in a war of numbers. There is debate on the budget for this and the Finance Committee is much more expert on such a subject. But if I take the absolute figures in 2014: 2.581 billion; in 2018, 2.673 billion. Budgets are growing. But it is true that GDP is changing, thanks to our good economic reforms and investments. This means that when I met Jens Stoltenberg a week ago, I was able to show him that we are meeting the Halt any Decline commitment. With a lot of modesty and prudence, I considered that for the 2019 budget, it would be necessary to be careful to keep this line. To hold the Halt any Decline, as GDP increases, it will be necessary to increase the amounts in absolute figures. It is not simply a question of avoiding cuts in expenditure. We need to increase to keep pace with the percentage of GDP. Secondly, an investment strategy. It is not just the F-16s that I will be happy to answer, but there are other investments, with a European part. Let me give you a few concrete examples. Commitments have been made with France in particular for rolling stock, amounting to more than EUR 1 billion in investments. Commitments have been made in the field of the navy with the frigates and the hunters of mines, of memory for more than 2,2 billion euros with the Dutch, programme that is being realized. There's the F-16 file I'm going back to. These investment decisions are a translation of the Strategic Vision and thus of the ability, after starting to stop reductions in Defence spending, to re-establish a progressive strategy to increase our financial contributions. Moreover, it is important that Belgium's contribution is not only a financial contribution. To get out of the way for a while, I would like to stress that there are three elements: the cash, the capacities and the contributions. Cash, abilities and contributions are the three points taken up by NATO. What is the reality? This is the answer I will give to all partners, including the United States. On two of the three points, we are very well positioned. These are contributions and abilities. The decisions of this government will lead us tomorrow and the day after, probably, to be even better positioned. It is also in the letter addressed to me, as it was to twelve or thirteen other NATO members, by the United States: it highlights the efforts made in particular in the field of contributions and capabilities and encourages us – not a surprise – to continue to mobilize on the issue of cash. I have brought here a first element of answer. I will convey this message to all my colleagues at the meetings, either in multilateral format or in bilateral meetings, on the sidelines of the summit. Mr Vandenput asked for bilateral consultations. There is currently no confirmation of bilateral consultations. We must certainly plan this in the margins of the summit, as is done on a regular basis. On the other hand, there is a new ambassador, someone pointed out, who took up his duties for the United States today. I think there will also be meetings in this context. I'll be very quick on two or three points. So I won't go into the details. My colleagues will certainly come back to that. On Afghanistan, Mr Hellings, that is obviously a formula. We know the tradition in Parliament where we cultivate the meaning of the formula. We are told that, seventeen years later, both NATO and the Taliban are still there. Yes, except that NATO's presence today is very different from what it was seventeen years ago. It's a first element. The results on the ground lead to what, for example, and it may be a detail for you but not for us, the schooling of girls, which is a development and a progression of the situation, has changed considerably compared to seventeen years ago. My colleagues will certainly come back in more detail. As far as Ukraine and Georgia are concerned, the security situation and the link with NATO, Mr Dallemagne, I want to be careful about this because we are going to have a session dedicated to this aspect. We will meet with all NATO officials and the two Heads of State or Government of the countries concerned, precisely to have the exchange of views and also to understand to what extent what is desired in terms of structural reform for the rule of law and the fight against corruption in the countries concerned can also bring about a number of progress. The Minsk II agreements, Russia, Ukraine, the role of the Normandy Format, all these agreements involve obligations on both sides, on the Russian side but also on the Ukrainian side. We must remain attentive to encouraging the various parties to make progress on the subject. What is the position of Belgium in Europe with regard to relations with Russia? I am aware that, on behalf of Belgium, I am in a position that may not yet be fully shared by all the other Member States. We support 100% of the decisions on sanctions against Russia, especially with regard to the situation in Ukraine and Georgia. In our approach at European level, it must also be clear that we are talking about sanctions and dialogue and not just sanctions. I come back to what I mentioned earlier: the Europe of relations to the south, a historical transatlantic relationship, common values, the need to work for the improvement of these relations, the situation in Brexit with Britain, the situation with Russia, which will be a great neighbour forever. I think a dialogue is necessary. We have a dialogue with countries with which we do not discuss a number of points spontaneously. But dialogue is needed to advance a number of beliefs and values, to support a number of important principles in our eyes. That is why, alongside a firm stance on sanctions, we believe that we need to have a more intense dialogue at the start of the European Union than it is today. That is the meaning of the very many contacts that our Foreign Minister has with the Russian authorities. It was the meaning of my visit at the beginning of the year in order to have this ability to open and nourish a dialogue without naivety, but with the conviction that without dialogue one does not progress. With a dialogue, the conditions are in place to give a chance, not a certainty, to progress on a number of topics. Mr Dallemagne referred to Syria. I believe that Russia's role is not a role that should be of concern to us in relation to the borders to the east of the European Union. There is also the role Russia plays in geopolitical or military terms in southern Europe, Syria or Libya. Let us consider the consequences for the Sahel, North-Mali, North-Niger, Mauritania, etc. We must try to open this dialogue. I come back very quickly to the Balkan countries. That is a matter of serious concern to us. We believe that within the European Union we need to be even more mobilized to consider this an important issue. We must encourage stability and security efforts in the Balkan region. I had the opportunity to visit Serbia and Albania a short time ago. It is important to have a good understanding of the geopolitical situation. We are very careful to have an analysis that allows us to be useful in the international meetings in which we participate on this subject. Then I come to the interplays about the F-16. As always, I try to remain very cold-blooded, serene and rational. I'm counting on everyone to do the same, even when it comes to an important decision like the one on the F-16. Several members rightly recalled that we had taken a decision. We have decided to launch an RfGP procedure as objective as possible. This allows state agencies – the words are important – to submit offers. When it comes to tenders, this implies a legal dimension in the competition procedure. Secondly, as I have said at least ten times before Parliament, France has decided not to participate in this procedure. Olivier Maingain is absolutely right: the legal framework of the RfGP procedure must be respected. Two tenders have been submitted validly within the time limits and conditions laid down therein. In addition to these, there is what I will call a French proposal rather than an offer. It was first issued by mail to the Minister of Defence and then by additional information that was provided in the form of PowerPoint. What was the government's decision? I will repeat it word for word: it has been decided that we will work on three aspects. Moreover, the mandate was entrusted to the experts. In this way, we will be able, in due course, to provide answers to the three questions asked. First, it is the extension or not of the F-16s. In this respect, there is no great suspense. We have already gathered a lot of information on this. The experts are responsible for bringing them together so that the government can share the argument supporting the decision to replace the F-16s. As a note, I note that there have been exciting discussions on this issue. Mr Van der Maelen, I listened carefully to you for business as usual. Attempts to manipulate have taken place. I expected more modesty from those who, for weeks, had colported probably falsified e-mails. We have seen a lot of drama in this regard, with a view to disrupting the decision-making process. We maintain our serenity and calmness and continue our work in order to make an informed decision. That is the question of whether or not the F-16s should be extended. Let me turn to the second point: the RfGP. I am very precise in this respect, as the Minister has pointed out a few times. In this respect, we received the necessary documents about two weeks ago, such as the ACAP report. This is the CCAaP report, the committee that has to analyse the two offers under the RfGP, in the opinion of the financial inspector – this is important because it is a very fine analysis of the financial impact – and the reports on societal returns. We have therefore received three documents which have been shared within the relevant ministerial departments for analysis in a serenity. This is the third point on the French proposal. What was the mandate given? The mandate given was to continue to look at how this proposal can be analysed and interpreted. Mr Dallemagne, I would like to be precise in order to avoid any risk of some pretending to have misunderstood or trying to make caricatures or shortcuts. I assure you from the outset, Mr Dallemagne, I do not stigmatize you here in particular. What is the situation we have been in for a few days? On the one hand, there is a legal procedure (RfGP). This procedure must be followed; legal misconduct must not be committed. On the other hand, the French – it's quite legitimate – tell us that in order to provide us with complementary documents, they would like confidentiality agreements to be validated. It is on this point that a legal point is currently being analysed, because we would not like only because we have, if necessary, validated confidentiality agreements that would not be well drafted legally, we can be blamed for legal errors, in the context of the RfGP legal procedure. This is a point which must therefore be meticulously and serenely analysed to see how much information we can have in relation to the French proposal. That's for the three points. I will not go beyond today. However, I would like to add that, in the draft notes to the Kern to continue the analysis of the file in the days and weeks ahead, the need to analyse the three points I have mentioned is well indicated. I hope, in any case, that the information I have given you on this issue of confidentiality clauses has made it possible to shed light on you and to avoid misunderstandings, whether deliberate or not, on the subject. The October deadline is a factual element that only relates to the RfGP since the RfGP specifies that, in the case of the US offer, it remains valid until October. I don't have the exact date in mind anymore. And it seems to me that the other offer remains valid until 2019. These are pieces of information that show that there is nothing in the file that requires us to make a decision before the NATO Summit. It is a simple procedural element that allows for clarity on this situation. Mr Van der Maelen, you will not take me in default with regard to this dossier! As Prime Minister and Head of Government, I am ensuring that decisions can be made on the basis of the best information, as this is the condition for making the best decision possible, that is, taking into account the dimension of the whole issue. In this case, of course, there is a legal dimension and, inevitably, when a military decision is taken, there is also a political dimension; Mr Maingain is right in this regard. It is therefore calmly and calmly that the decision will be taken within the government, and only within that framework, with the ministers concerned. As I have said on several occasions, we will ensure that Parliament is regularly informed. For the rest, parliamentary questions and inquiries and regular meetings of the Defence Committee provide an opportunity to be informed about the status of the case. On the other hand, it will be the government, under the control of Parliament, that will make the decision. The government does not intend to delegate decision-making to Parliament. In accordance with our constitutional order and our rule of law, it is the executive that will take the decision under the control of Parliament. That's how we'll work. I hope that information will reduce serenity in a serious discussion. It seems to me that this debate deserves better than shorter formulas. We will continue to work in this way. These are the main points I wanted to give in response. Thank you for listening carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u21	Mr President, allow me to comment on a few specific points. Mr. Crusnière asked a question about the debate on disarmament and, in particular, nuclear. It is clear that on nuclear, we are defending within NATO the balance between maintaining credible deterrence and progress in arms control. As many have recalled this afternoon, the geopolitical context has changed. There are security threats. A balanced position must be maintained, but it must be recalled that NATO has significantly reduced the number of nuclear weapons in Europe and their role in its defence policy and that it also continues to support the non-proliferation treaty. We also agree within NATO that we want to have a final goal. We know that seeing a world without nuclear weapons will require a gradual process. Belgium plays a special role in this area, since we have a responsibility for ratification, extension of ratification and therefore entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. Together with Iraq, we are responsible for convincing new countries to go in that direction. The relevance of this approach is perceptible through the situation in North Korea. In the next two years, we will, together with our Iraqi partner, promote new accessions to the Treaty so that it can enter into force. We are also active in the verification of nuclear disarmament. We are part of a small group of countries that is verifying the appropriate methodology for ensuring an effective verification of the dismantling of nuclear weapons. Of course, these commitments will be repeated at the Summit. But the debate will focus on two areas. The first concerns the question of how to accompany the process on the Korean peninsula. Is the contact between the US President and the North Korean leader making progress? If the European Union and NATO can play a role, they will do so. It is hoped that progress will be made towards the total denuclearization of the peninsula and a rapprochement between the two Koreas. There will also be a debate on the efforts made with regard to Iran, of which you are familiar with the current situation. European partners want the JCPoA (Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action) to continue to be implemented. There will be more contact with Iran in this area. There is therefore no question of a logic which aims to accompany non-proliferation and the reduction of nuclear weapons. Among other things, Mr Yüksel and other Members raised the question of the relationship between the European Union and NATO. I just want to confirm that we are indeed moving from an evolution to cooperation. For example, we have made progress in recent months with PESCO, in which 24 European Member States work together. It is also possible to achieve real cooperation with third countries. That is very important for Britain. Indeed, after the Brexit, we must also work with Great Britain. This cooperation is already possible within the European Union through PESCO. It is also possible within NATO, which has Britain on board. We have already indicated that we must continue such cooperation with Great Britain. There's more. There are also developments at the industrial level for the European Union. For those who have addressed these geostrategic developments that Belgium will face, particularly in investment choices, is there a real ability to put in place, alongside the efforts undertaken for a Europe of defence at the military level, a Europe of defence at the industrial level? We have set up the European Defence Fund and are fully engaged in the negotiations on the regulation establishing the European Industrial Development Programme in the field of defence. It is also a major issue for the coming years, and not just for the major players in defence. For Belgium, I stress the small and medium-sized enterprises which could be associated with developments in defence in this context. Mr Yüksel, it is very important for the European Union and Belgium to make progress in both areas, not only on cooperation between a number of partners in the European Union, but also on cooperation between the European Union and NATO. It is one of the main themes of the summit to achieve this closer cooperation with different partners. However, as the Prime Minister rightly pointed out, some caution must be taken in relation to some partners. I agree with what has been said about the caution and remarks we have made in NATO on developments in Turkey. Our position in this regard has been known since the attempted coup d'état. As much as we had been very clear about the condemnation of the coup d'état, so much so, from the outset, we asked that the reactions be proportionate, which is not the case. Operations in northern Syria have reinforced this approach. We have returned to it in various forums, bilaterally and within NATO. Mr Dallemagne, with regard to Georgia and Ukraine, I will not repeat what the Prime Minister has said. In the Washington Treaty, Article 10 provides that, in order for membership to take place, additional security must be provided to the Alliance beyond the reforms to be implemented in those countries. It is therefore not a question of a country's veto, but it is important to know whether membership brings additional security to the Alliance and additional security to the countries that want to join us. Georgia has made enormous efforts in internal reforms as well as in its contributions to NATO-led operations. At the preparatory meetings, we were able to recall the willingness of Belgium and other European and NATO partners to strengthen partnerships with Georgia. I have spoken about this with my Ukrainian and Georgian colleagues at recent Council of Europe meetings and will visit Tbilisi tomorrow to meet with my Georgian colleague. We will then have the opportunity to return to the efforts to accompany reforms and security. This is also the case with Ukraine, although efforts to combat corruption clearly need to be strengthened, not only within the framework of the Minsk Agreements, but in general. There is also a partnership with the Middle East. I've had questions about our ability to do something with other partners. For Iraq, Jordan and Tunisia, we provide training and training for the military. It is very important for us to continue this partnership with a number of other countries, not just with members or candidate members of NATO. In the process, I repeat that it is rather – on the historical level – rejoicing for these populations... I have heard a lot about what would have been made a commitment in the past. There has been no NATO commitment not to expand! This has never been the case. There is obviously a commitment that has been made not to deploy troops in the countries immediately adjacent to Russia, which is another debate. Enlargement has been requested by the countries. I am very proud to arrive, as I have done in the last few hours, in a city like Warsaw and to be able to realize that the capital of the country that gave the name to the Warsaw Pact is now not only part of NATO, but also part of the European Union. In relation – and we must remember it from time to time, even before a tense summit – to what we have experienced in previous times, since the creation of NATO, we must keep our heads cold as much as the war was at the time! We come out of a period in which countries lived under the Soviet coup, with the tragedies that this has led to. Since the fall of the wall we have seen evolution and meet from time to time in these countries and you will see that this development was guaranteed first by NATO, probably in terms of security, but also by accession to the European Union. I am therefore very pleased that we can move forward in this direction. There is no right of veto at all on this matter. For our relations with the United States, I would like to nuance. We are in a major difficulty on a number of issues with the position of the new US administration. It started with the Paris Accords, it continued with the nuclear agreement with Iran, the move of the American embassy to Jerusalem, we are now in a more direct confrontation in trade matters... That does not prevent us from being in an alliance with the United States as such. On this day of celebration of the independence of the United States, I would like to remind them that we are in a strong alliance with that country. We will try to talk about it again with the new American ambassador who arrived at our house today. We should not, however, completely reverse the world view we have. The major difficulty we have today is a difficulty on multilateralism. Can we find enough partners to go on the path of multilateralism and therefore work with more and more other actors in the world? I will conclude, Mr President, by telling you that the experience I have in recent weeks and months of work – including in the House of Representatives – leaves me with a bitter taste in the real will – which is constantly expressed! - to defend multilateralism and partnership with a set of countries around the world. I am told at some point that agreements cannot be concluded with countries in southern Africa, because they are not being helped enough. Ten minutes later, I am told that we cannot conclude agreements with a country like Colombia – which is emerging from a terrible war, which concludes a peace agreement! – and I am opposed to the fact that the rights of trade unionists are not sufficiently defended. Same thing with countries like Peru, Ecuador. Then, with Canada, we are told that we have never had as good a trade agreement for the European Union as the one with Canada, but it is also not possible to ratify it. Fortunately, we still have a majority in Belgium who can take on this kind of international partnership! For if we are not able to conclude agreements with countries like these, then we must not continue to advocate for a world order based on multilateralism and international relations. We will continue, including within NATO, with all NATO partners, to reiterate this position. We want things to happen in multilateral forums, and when this is not possible, we want to continue to develop strong partnerships and relationships with partners around the world: those closest to us, like our partners, often within NATO and of course within the European Union, those with whom we do not agree on a number of issues, such as Russia, but with whom we are also trying to find a common ground on the few areas where we can make progress, I am thinking of the nuclear agreement with Iran or the situation in Syria. "Let's get married, let's walk!", It is obviously very important and I hear a lot of people say that a multilateral world order is needed. Now, many opera choirs sing "whispering, walking!" Without taking a step! They don't move and stay on stage in the same place. From time to time, when I see the little courage that is set on trying to forge partnerships, to reach international agreements for a lot of reasons that are much more related to internal policies, I believe that we need to look at our own ability to participate in this world order and not just spend time criticizing what others are doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u22	Mr President, I have little to add to the general considerations and to the answers that have already been given to the questions put. On two specific points, however, I can provide some information. As regards cooperation between the European Union and NATO, since 2015, the EU High Representative has been present at each NATO meeting. On the contrary, there is always a meeting with Jens Stoltenberg in connection with EU meetings with defence ministers. A joint declaration was adopted in the margins of the Warsaw Joint Summit. Belgium is asking for a joint declaration to be adopted in the margin. In this way, concrete cooperation will take steps forward for many projects. This brings me to Mr Yüksel's question on cybersecurity. At that time, a cyberpledge was adopted in Warsaw, where Belgium has also committed itself to increasing the quality and quantity of national cybersecurity capacity. However, this can never be seen apart from the whole of hybrid threats. Both in the EU defence meetings and in any NATO meeting since then, the principle of civil preparedness, weapons against hybrid threats and, more specifically, the way in which both NATO can make progress through military capabilities and the EU through civilian capabilities have been widely addressed. There is therefore concrete practical and strategic cooperation between NATO and the EU at this level, which, of course, is also supported by our country. For example, the European Centre of Excellence for Countering Hybrid Threats is located in Helsinki, while Finland is not a member of NATO. The EU and NATO are now participating parties. We are looking at the extent to which we can respond to this. With regard to the Belgian contribution in the field of cyber security, we respect our international commitments. For example, we send Belgian delegations where necessary and do internal capacity building through, among other things, planned and executed recruitments. Stylian, those people are ready for operational deployment. In the field of civil preparation, our country has not stood still. It is a transversal fact, in the sense that not only the military but also the emergency services and so on are involved. There is also cooperation with the National Crisis Centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u23	Thank you, Minister. The Prime Minister says he must leave us now for the sake of international contact. Prime Minister, I will respond to your statement, but I assume your ministers will inform you about it. I now give the floor to those Members who wish to replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u24	Mr President, I thank the Prime Minister and the ministers for their answers. Maybe I misunderstood. The Prime Minister had to leave us, but was he aiming at me speaking of a contradiction between NATO and the European Union? That wasn't my point. I say it very clearly. I am in favour of a very strong strategic partnership between the European Union and NATO. I wanted to make it clear in my speech that in this partnership and in NATO, Europe's weight must be much heavier, Europe's voice must be much stronger. That was the meaning of my intervention by stressing the need for synergies, for a much stronger defence Europe, in terms of strategy, military purchases and in terms of the European Defence Fund. It would be very interesting to hold this debate before the summit. I think that it would also, like what is being done in the Committee of Opinions on European issues, deserve to have a debriefing of what has been done at the summit in the same configuration. This could be very interesting for Parliament and our committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u25	I take note of your request to hold a debate after the summit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u26	Of course, I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. He called for serenity in the F-16 debate. Not only will I be very serene in my reply, but I will truly rejoice in his answers. What worries me a little is that they are in contradiction with the Defence Minister's answers last week in committee. Indeed, here, the Prime Minister has just told us that all options would be analyzed and come to the government table. Of course, there are the two offers that responded to the call, although one may be concerned. On the one hand, there is the offer of a president who sits on international relations all day long and, on the other hand, I share the Prime Minister's questions and concerns about what Brexit will be tomorrow. The offers are there as a result of the call and they must be analysed. We will also analyze the possibility of an extension of our current aircraft. I would point out that last week, in the Defence Committee, the minister had excluded any further study and that the proposal for a French strategic partnership was going to be analysed, while the Minister of Defence was also telling us last week, in the same committee, that he had received nothing after his request for information. I am therefore delighted if, within a week, this information has arrived and can be analysed. However, in this case, there have been several episodes. Even if I hear the call to serenity that I share, I still have some doubts. That is why I will table a motion with four points. First of all, to echo what I have just said, I think it is the Prime Minister who must himself take control of the F-16 issue since he has just expressed what I understand to be the government's position, namely the analysis of all the options on the table. So I think it is the Prime Minister who has to take the matter back. Secondly, since we are talking today about the European Defence of tomorrow, we must obviously give priority to all the collaborations with the countries of the European Union, on this issue, but I would also say in the other investment dossiers that the Prime Minister has mentioned. We are not opposed a priori, but we have asked for hearings that have been refused. Of course, the SPF Economy must be involved in the discussions, but also and above all the Communities and the Regions, since there are important societal benefits in terms of research, economic development and employment. I believe that with such amounts and investments covering several decades, the opinion of the Regions and the Communities cannot be disregarded. Finally, I have heard that Parliament will be listened to in its supervisory role. I would ask in this motion, as we have already done, that 'Parliament be listened to in its supervisory role', which is the least of all, and that it be heard and consulted before this final decision is taken, because we have not received all the information on the dossier in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u27	I thank the members of the government who answered our questions. First of all, on the question of means, I am one of those who think that we cannot outsource our security issues to others. We must be loyal security and budget partners for security. It's always a problem for a government. Pedagogical work must be done with regard to the population. Often, the public overestimates defence spending, believes it is much more important than it actually is. If we were to outsource our security issues to others, it would be based on their own agendas and priorities. That wouldn't be good for our strategic interests. Secondly, on the budget issues, I am sorry to contradict the Prime Minister again, but I have the figures in front of me, and those are those of NATO. Of course, in current euros we are about 4 billion, including pensions. I have them in front of me, Mr Vandeput, don't make those signs! Listen to me before you contradict me, you haven't even heard that you're already climbing to the ceiling! Calm down! In constant euros, we go from 4 billion to 3 and a half billion. That is what is important, and not the current euros. We are reducing our defence and budgetary capabilities by half a billion dollars. Secondly, we are going from over 1% of GDP to 0.9% of GDP, and we are indeed in a dramatic budgetary situation compared to NATO. You have to be able to recognize him. This is the first point from which one can eventually move towards a better. It's not about being in denial about it. This is all the more important since, with Brexit, 80% of the alliance's expenditure will be spent on budgetary matters by countries that are not part of the European Union: the United States, Canada, Great Britain and Turkey. This poses an extremely worrying political problem. I will send you the NATO press release, Minister of Defence, because it seems you haven't read it. It dates from March 2018. And I have the same paintings as you. Chairperson: Benoit Hellings. Chairman: Benoit Hellings. I have the same paintings as you! On the question of relations with Russia, I fully agree with the Harmel doctrine. I would point out that this did not concern a country of the European Union having a special relationship with Russia. It was all the countries of the Alliance that had a relationship of firmness and dialogue with Russia. This is an extremely important difference. I understand that Belgium would like to go alone on these issues, but I do not think that makes any sense. When it comes to dialogue with Russia, we must all do so together and not a single European Union or NATO Member State moving to Moscow to see if it can still benefit from this kind of privileged relationship, in particular, on trade in certain products which Belgium would like to continue to sell in Russia. I think it is extremely important to keep this in mind. It seems to me that the Prime Minister is right to complete the list of serious destabilizations we are experiencing because of Russia's policy. There is also Libya. But with regard to Syria, it must be recalled that Russia has opposed the UN Security Council resolutions twelve times and that while we are dealing with a war of the cruelest, longest and most violent in modern history, the political consequences of which are enormous for the European Union, we owe it to Russia in large part. I think that in a dialogue strategy we must keep this in mind. Finally, I do not share the positive sentiment after hearing from the Prime Minister on the issue of replacing the F-16s. Indeed, if I understand correctly, the French offer is not analysed at the moment. "First of all, it is a question of validating confidentiality agreements that could have an impact on the RfGP (Request for Government Proposal) procedure." So for now, this offer is still on the side and is still not analyzed. I do not understand how signing confidentiality agreements with France could have an impact on RfGP! Mr. Minister of Defence, I have tried to follow you for all these years, in relation to the acquisition of these F-16s, and you have made extremely contradictory comments. I would remind you that in this case, it is France which transmits confidential data, not Belgium. I therefore do not see why the fact that France delivers confidential data would have an impact on another parallel procedure. You'll have to explain it to me. But for the time being, I note that, apart from the Prime Minister's statements at the end of the Council of Ministers and contrary to what he has said in recent weeks and days, this proposal is still not under consideration, because of arguments which seem to me to be anything but understandable and which seem to me to be totally fuzzy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u28	Mr President, I would like to refer to two points, in particular the F-16 and NATO. We are making progress. What the Prime Minister stated at a press conference after the Council of Ministers of 15 June 2018, he confirmed here in committee today. The three slopes are on the table. He has confirmed that the three slopes will be examined. He explained that after the Council of Ministers of 15 June 2018. I noticed what happened after that Council of Ministers. From the N-VA angle, the Minister of Defence and the Party Chairman summarised that nothing is possible outside the RfGP procedure. Indeed, the Minister of Defence stated on 22 June 2018 that the French bid was excluded. Bart De Wever noted in the Seventh Day that the Rafale is excluded "because that plane can't do anything." Here in the Chamber, the Prime Minister has put the points on the i. This is what the government has decided. The three slopes are carefully examined. That is contrary to what the Minister of Defence and the chairman of the N-VA have stated. After the many unexpected developments in the dossier, allow me to ask whether it will remain silent in Antwerp and there will be no other signal from the Lambermont over the next few hours or days. That's what I have to say about the F-16. With the motion I have tabled, I ask for a detailed examination and Parliament's involvement. I also support my proposal to involve national and foreign independent experts in this investigation, in the interests of credibility. I would also like to comment on the NATO debate. I agree with the Foreign Minister that we must keep our heads down and that the situation we are experiencing today is by no means comparable to the difficult times we have experienced during the Cold War period. However, in the period of the Cold War, uncertainty came from outside the transatlantic alliance. Now she's inside. I have already said that all European leaders agree that we in this world, which is becoming more and more multipolar, with a superpower that wants to remain superpower, with another power that is on the way, with a former superpower that has a downward movement, with a fourth player, Europe, which can only be a power if it integrates, need rules based global governance and multilateral institutions. All Europeans with common sense agree on this. However, in the United States, our partner over the last 70 years, a president is now in power who is of a different opinion. I am not going to list the examples of the last few weeks and months, but it is even worse. He is not only opposed to multilateral cooperation, he is also opposed to pluralist cooperation. In other words, neither cooperation with all countries, nor cooperation with groups of countries he is interested in. I'm just gonna run the list. After all, he abhors all forms of cooperation which undermine the freedom of movement of the United States. He canceled the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). He renegotiates the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Colleagues, I do not know whether you read the message in The Washington Post a few days ago, not exactly a left-wing newspaper, that Mr Trump made the offer to leave the European Union in private with the French President Macron. He promised him a bilateral trade agreement that the European Union as a whole can only dream of. Fourteen days ago, he said on the record that the European Union was set up to benefit from the United States and want to rob the American piggy bank. He also said that NATO is an obsolete. At the last G7 summit he said about NATO "The NATO is as bad as NAFTA. That means something because he hates NAFTA very much. He would have suggested, in a meeting with the Swedish Prime Minister, that it would be an option for the United States to leave NATO. Minister, I agree with you. We need to keep our heads down. The threat is not comparable to that of the Cold War, but the problems are now coming from within. I have long been among those who thought Trump would be brought under control by the device. Anyone who has followed American politics in recent months has seen that the State Department has been stripped of clothes and that he is increasingly surrounded by advisers who all belong to the America First Camp. It would be foolish not to prepare ourselves for that. We shouldn't be looking for it ourselves, but I'm not comfortable. It is high time we increased the pace of European integration. Steps must also be taken in the defence field. This means that we are abandoning NATO's military planning, for example. This military planning is based on two objectives. Firstly, there is the overall objective that NATO must be able to achieve and, secondly, the objective per Member State of NATO. That's how our armies are built. If the defence capabilities of the European Member States are to be removed from NATO, then we will have a puzzle with many missing pieces, which will mean that we will no longer be able to support our own autonomous foreign policy through defence. Europeans must open their eyes to what is happening under their own noses and draw conclusions from it. I wanted to repeat that call today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u29	In his explanatory statement, the Prime Minister referred to the correct procedure with the RfGP and the specifications, which were published in an open and transparent manner. I very much welcome the Prime Minister's confirmation that the whole procurement procedure has been carried out in accordance with the European law on public procurement. The most improbable stories are going around, reinforced by social media. The government cannot and must not be misled by this. That's obvious. It must be based on competent and competent experts and legal procedures. The replacement of the F-16 will play a crucial role in European security over the next decades. That is why it is extremely important that the correct procedure is completed in the near future. After all, it is only thanks to our fighter planes that Belgium can still make a fist in the context of the collective defence of NATO and the EU. If that is no longer possible, Belgium will not only become a pariah, as other NATO and EU countries assume their responsibility for security and defence and will also undermine the foundations of European and transatlantic solidarity. I call on all political leaders to be wise and cautious, because if we break NATO, we will also break European security. I'm sure you will.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u30	As far as the F-16 dossier is concerned, if I have understood the Prime Minister correctly, we will nevertheless analyse the French proposal, although Mr De Wever and Mr Vandeput claim that the aircraft is not really capable of doing anything. The government will therefore carry out an analysis of an airplane, which it itself feels can do nothing. Today, the Prime Minister is trying to make him believe that no choice has yet been made. I had hoped for a discussion on whether or not that device could do anything. In the end, we didn't talk about that at all. It was probably a nice celebration at the embassy here in Brussels for the national holiday of the United States, with many good people and even government members, who opened a bottle of champagne together. Why they did that remains a good question. One cannot get rid of the impression that the F-35 has already been chosen. Mr Reynders, from a strategic point of view, as far as the commitments at the time were concerned, there were a lot of quotations from the German Foreign Minister or even James Baker that were going towards this commitment to NATO's non-enlargement. There is one point on which we agree. Indeed, you said that there was a commitment that there would be no NATO troops on the Russian border. It is important that a Belgian minister emphasises this. But then how is it that there are NATO troops in Lithuania? I hear there are more and more military operations on this side. Indeed, – let us be pragmatic – peace in the world is not decreed. If we ask who is the first power responsible for the chaos in Syria, of course, I do not share Mr Dallemagne's analysis at all. If a power is primarily responsible, it is the United States of America.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u31	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u32	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u33	Who objected to Security Council resolutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u34	Had Iraq not been razed in 2003, would the Islamic State have existed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u35	And if the Russians hadn't gone to Afghanistan in 1979... that's where it all started, Mr. Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u36	You are right to say that American intervention to support Bin Laden is an important point. But I didn't want to go back there until the Americans financed and armed Bin Laden. In any case, the fact that Iraq was razed in 2003 is considered by many observers as the cause of instability in the region. There's no state anymore. There's nothing left. There have been 1.5 million deaths, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the embargo on Iraq. Some may continue to live, but I'm touched by it. I'm not talking about military intervention. The embargo alone caused 1.5 million deaths.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u37	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u38	Of course! Of course! I therefore fully subscribe to the logic of the United Nations that we do not have to decide to intervene in those countries. If we start this way, what could prevent them from interfering with us?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u39	What is the world order? Each offers different formulas? Mr Reynders is right when he says that there is a commitment not to have NATO troops on the Russian border. This is the case today! This is a threat of war. In the coming months, we will have a debate to determine the best strategy for ensuring peace. In any case, the fact of going to military strength at the Russian border does not seem to me at all to be the way forward to maintain world peace. We have experienced two world wars. We know what it means to have power shocks. The goal of the United States clearly is to encircle China. He's the main commercial and military enemy. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not go into this logic of confrontation between blocs! Otherwise, we will find historical periods as in 40-45 that will not please us. Let us work for peace in the world and not play the map of American imperialism! They have the largest military budget in the world: ten times the Russian military budget. One in two countries has American bases on their territory. That is the reality! I believe that this constitutes a great danger to peace in the world. I hope that Belgium will play an important diplomatic role in maintaining this peace.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u40	Mr Miller and Mr Yüksel ask for a reply. Mr Yüksel, since you had tabled a question, you have priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u41	Mr President, I thank the government for the answers. I have three comments to make. Mr Prime Minister, with regard to the Burden Sharing and the letter, it is very clear to you that we are not impressed by that letter. That is a good thing. There are still countries that do not meet the 2% standard. Belgium does not want to hide, but there is the budgetary reality. The government is trying to keep investment from falling and remonting again. In that respect, the American president, Donald Trump, is allowed to write a letter to the Prime Minister every month. Mr Prime Minister, as far as the F-16s are concerned, I am pleased that you have made the point. What matters is what the government decided on 15 June and what you announced at the press conference after the Council of Ministers. I am glad that this will remove all ambiguity. All the other explanations don't really matter. Prime Minister, you have the file in your hands and I am very pleased with it. Finally, in my question I referred to the fact that the decision on the replacement of the F-16 by some parties and the media was linked to the NATO summit, but there was never a link between that. There was never a deadline either, so, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow ourselves to be blackmailed by the United States or any power, nor should we allow ourselves to be deceived by France. I want to make that very clear. We must make a decision in the interests of our citizens, in the interests of Belgium and in the interests of our companies. Everything else doesn't matter. I look forward to the further steps the government will take in the coming weeks and months in this so important dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u42	Mr Dallemagne, on this dialogue with Russia, the idea is of course to have a dialogue between the Member States of the European Union and Russia. I do not want to give the impression that it is absolutely necessary to negotiate a small Belgian-Russian trade agreement. On the other hand, and that is why I wanted to say this to both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister: I consider their approach to language with the Russians to be intelligent, courageous. I also hope that it will lead to something and that it will be able to see developments at European level. Russia is our neighbour for a long time to come. We share the Eurasian continent. I think that at some point in history, this rapprochement could and should have already taken place. Unfortunately, it was broken net by communism, which prevented this opening up of Russia to Europe and Europe to Russia. I also believe that we should be in a better position to re-establish structured political ties with all the countries of the Mediterranean basin, northern Africa, because, mutatis mutandis, Islamism is preventing this. Just as at some point, communism has prevented us from turning more to the East, today there is an Islamist current that prevents us from turning more to the Mediterranean and, beyond that, to Africa. These are beautiful geopolitical analyses on which we could spend a lot of time. On the other hand, for confidentiality agreements, I am not a lawyer, but it seems to me, Mr Dallemagne, that if the Belgian State decides to negotiate confidentiality agreements, it does indeed correspond to putting the finger at the beginning of a negotiation. There, I can understand that the Belgian Government wants to take all legal precautions to ensure that it does not have recourse, etc. As I said earlier, Mr President, and I repeat, I am pleased that the government has chosen to implement a procedure for replacing the F-16s and that it is sticking to this procedure, including in all the necessary dimensions of legal protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic941x.u43	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, - Mr Dirk Van der Maelen, Mr Stéphane Crusnière, Mr Georges Dallemagne, Mr Raoul Hedebouw, Mr Olivier Maingain, Mr Veli Yüksel and Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mrs Karolien Grosemans; - taking into account the statements made by the Minister for Defence, Steven Vandeput, on the "minimal investigation" and in particular on the French track and the extension of the lifetime of the F-16 fleet; - taking into account the opposite statements made by several members of the Government; - heard the Prime Minister's reply; recommends that the government: - add independent experts to the "minimal examination" of the three options; - to discuss the outcome of that "minimal investigation" openly in Parliament before the government takes a decision." A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr. Dirk Van der Maelen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, - having heard the inquiries and questions of Messrs. Dirk Van der Maelen, Stéphane Crusnière, Georges Dallemagne, Raoul Hedebouw, Olivier Maingain, Veli Yüksel and Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Karolien Grosemans; - in the light of the statements made by Defence Minister Steven Vandeput concerning the "meticulous analysis" and in particular the French track and the extension of the life of the F-16 fleet; - in view of the contradictory statements made by various members of the Government; - having heard the Prime Minister's reply; recommends that the Government: - add an analysis by independent experts to the "meticulous analysis" of the three options; - to submit the outcome of this "meticulous analysis" to an open discussion in Parliament before the government takes its decision." A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr. Stéphane Crusnière and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Julie Fernandez Fernandez and the Prime Minister's response, Asks the government: - that the Prime Minister himself governs the procedure for replacing the F-16s decided by the government so that the whole matter is finally studied in depth both with the offers that have been introduced under the current procedure and with the various proposals for strategic partnerships and the possibilities of extending the current F-16s; - within this framework, to strengthen and favour military collaborations, both operationally, humanely and industrially, with the Member States of the European Union in order to take concrete action in favour of the effective implementation of an integrated defence Europe and to choose a successor to the Belgian F-16s in the light of this priority; - in this context, to fully involve the SPF Economie, the Regions and the Communities in order to analyse the industrial, research and development and employment issues inherent in the replacement of the F-16s decided by the Federal Government and their potential consequences for the Belgian economy, universities and enterprises; - to present to the House of Representatives the note which will be discussed with the Government on these different options before any final decision is taken by the Government." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Stéphane Crusnière and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez and the Prime Minister's reply, asks the government: - that the Prime Minister personally steers the procedure for replacing the F-16s decided by the Government so that the whole dossier could finally be thoroughly examined, taking into account both the tenders submitted under the current procedure and the various proposals for strategic partnerships and the possibilities for extending the lifetime of the current F-16s; - to strengthen and favour military cooperation at operational, personnel and industrial level with the Member States of the European Union, in order to take concrete steps towards the effective realisation of an integrated European Defence and, in the light of this priority, to choose a successor for the Belgian F-16 Tunisians; - fully involve the FPS Economy, the Regions and the Communities in that process in order to analyse the industrial aspects and the questions of research and development and employment inherent in the Federal Government's decision to replace the F-16 debt instruments and their possible impact on the Belgian economy, universities and enterprises; - to provide the Chamber of Representatives with the note on the various options which the government will discuss before taking a final decision.' A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Rita Bellens and Mrs Karolien Grosemans and Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Richard Miller, Dirk Van Mechelen, Tim Vandenput and Veli Yüksel. A simple motion was tabled by Rita Bellens and Karolien Grosemans and MM. Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Richard Miller, Dirk Van Mechelen, Tim Vandenput et Veli Yüksel. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
