ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u2	He died on 7 July in Baasrode-Dendermonde, at the age of 73, Ferdy Willems, a former member of the Chamber of Representatives. Ferdy Willems was a member of the Chamber of the Arrondissement of Sint-Niklaas-Dendermonde from June 1999 to May 2003, first for VU-ID, then for Spirit and finally for Agalev. From 1976 to 2006 he was a city council member in Dendermonde, where he also held the mandate of ships from 1995 to 2000. In the name of the Chamber of Representatives, I have offered my sincere condolences to his wife and his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u3	I have received amendments to items 13 and 14 of this afternoon's agenda: 13. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Nahima Lanjri, Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Catherine Fonck and Mr Stéphanie Thoron) amending the regulations aimed at strengthening adoption leave and introducing foster leave, Nos 2240/1 to 7. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Catherine Fonck) on the extension of adoption leave, Nos 573/1 and 2. - the legislative proposal (Mr Karin Jiroflée and Mrs Karin Temmerman and Mr Peter Vanvelthoven) amending the Law of 3 July 1978 on employment contracts in respect of adoption leave, Nos 912/1 and 2. 14. - the legislative proposal (Mr Jan Spooren, Mrs Daphné Dumery and Mr Wouter Raskin and Mr Wim Van der Donkt) amending the law on the recovery of 22 January 1985 laying down social provisions as regards the flexibility of the inclusion of thematic leave, Nos 2464/1 to 5. I have received amendments on items 13 and 14 of this afternoon's agenda: 13. - the bill (Ms. Nahima Lanjri, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Catherine Fonck and Stéphanie Thoron) amending the regulations with a view to strengthening adoption leave and introducing foster parental leave, Nos. 2240/1 to 7. - the proposed law (Ms. Catherine Fonck) on extending adoption leave, Nos. 573/1 and 2. - the draft law (Ms Karin Jiroflée and Karin Temmerman and Mr Peter Vanvelthoven) amending, as regards adoption leave, the Act of 3 July 1978 on employment contracts, Nos. 912/1 and 2. 14. - the draft law (Mr Jan Spooren, Ms Daphné Dumery and Messrs. Wouter Raskin and Wim Van der Donckt) amending the reorganization law containing social provisions of 22 January 1985 with regard to the flexibilisation of the taking of the thematic holidays, Nos. 2464/1 to 5. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents this afternoon, I propose that the legislative proposals be sent back to the Social Affairs Committee in order to discuss these amendments. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents this morning, I propose that the draft legislation be referred to the Social Affairs Committee in order to allow these amendments to be considered. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with today's decision of the Conference of Presidents, I propose that one general discussion be devoted to the following points: 11. the legislative proposal (Mrs Nahima Lanjri, Mr Sonja Becq and Mr Stefaan Vercamer) amending the Law of 22 January 1985 on social provisions relating to parental leave, Nos 313/1 to 7. 13. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Nahima Lanjri, Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Catherine Fonck and Mr Stéphanie Thoron) amending the regulations aimed at strengthening adoption leave and introducing foster leave, Nos 2240/1 to 7. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Catherine Fonck) on the extension of adoption leave, Nos 573/1 and 2. - the legislative proposal (Mr Karin Jiroflée and Mrs Karin Temmerman and Mr Peter Vanvelthoven) amending the Law of 3 July 1978 on employment contracts in respect of adoption leave, Nos 912/1 and 2. 14. - the legislative proposal (Mr Jan Spooren, Mrs Daphné Dumery and Mr Wouter Raskin and Mr Wim Van der Donkt) amending the law on the recovery of 22 January 1985 laying down social provisions as regards the flexibility of the inclusion of thematic leave, Nos 2464/1 to 5. One general discussion to be devoted to the following items on Wednesday morning: 29. - the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure with a view to the introduction of legislation on renegades, Nos 3016/1 to 8. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Sonja Becq, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Raf Terwingen) setting up a remorse scheme, Nos 629/1 and 2. - the legislative proposal (Mr Raf Terwingen and Mr Roel Deseyn and Mrs Sonja Becq) amending the Code of Criminal Procedure as regards the threatened witnesses, Nos 2193/1 and 2. 30. - the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure with a view to introducing the special method of investigation for civil infiltration, Nos 2940/1 to 11. In accordance with the decision of today's Conference of Presidents, I propose that one general discussion be devoted to the following points: 11. The bill (Ms. Nahima Lanjri, Sonja Becq and Mr. Stefaan Vercamer) amending the Act of 22 January 1985 containing social provisions with regard to parental leave, Nos. 313/1 to 7. 13. - the bill (Ms. Nahima Lanjri, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Catherine Fonck and Stéphanie Thoron) amending the regulations with a view to strengthening adoption leave and introducing foster parental leave, Nos. 2240/1 to 7. - the proposed law (Ms. Catherine Fonck) on extending adoption leave, Nos. 573/1 and 2. - the draft law (Ms Karin Jiroflée and Karin Temmerman and Mr Peter Vanvelthoven) amending, as regards adoption leave, the Act of 3 July 1978 on employment contracts, Nos. 912/1 and 2. 14. - the draft law (Mr Jan Spooren, Ms Daphné Dumery and Messrs. Wouter Raskin and Wim Van der Donckt) amending the reorganization law containing social provisions of 22 January 1985 with regard to the flexibilisation of the taking of the thematic holidays, Nos. 2464/1 to 5. To devote a single general discussion to the following items on tomorrow morning's agenda: 29. – Bill amending the Code of Criminal Investigation to introduce legal provisions on repentance, Nos. 3016/1 to 8. - the bill (Ms. Sonja Becq, MM. Servais Verherstraeten and Raf Terwingen) introducing the regime of repentance, Nos. 629/1 and 2. - the bill (MM. Raf Terwingen and Roel Deseyn and Mrs Sonja Becq) amending the Code of Criminal Investigation with regard to threatened witnesses, Nos. 2193/1 and 2. 30. - the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Investigation with a view to introducing the particular method of searching for civil infiltration, Nos. 2940/1 to 11. I would also suggest that you register on Wednesday morning's agenda: 42. Legislative proposal (Mrs Sonja Becq and Ms Sarah Smeyers, Mr Philippe Goffin and Ms Carina Van Cauter) amending the Civil Code as regards matrimonial property law and amending various other provisions in this field, Nos 2848/1 to 11. I also propose that you include in the agenda of the plenary session on Wednesday morning: 42. Bill (Mrs. Sonja Becq and Sarah Smeyers, Mr. Philippe Goffin and Ms. Carina Van Cauter) amending the Civil Code on the Law of Matrimonial Regimes and amending various other provisions in this area, Nos. 2848/1 to 11. To be entered on Wednesday afternoon's agenda: 43. Draft law on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, Nos 3126/1 to 7. To be included in the agenda of the plenary session on Wednesday afternoon: 43. Draft law on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, Nos. 3126/1 to 7. On Thursday afternoon's agenda, the following items should be entered: 44. - Draft law laying down various provisions on income tax, Nos 3147/1 to 7. 45. - Draft law establishing Local Integrated Security Cells on radicalism, extremism and terrorism, Nos 3209/1 to 4. 46. - Legislative proposal (Mrs Inez De Coninck, Mr David Clarinval, Servais Verherstraeten and Patrick Dewael) amending the law of 22 May 2014 on the transfer by the Federal Planning Office of the electoral programmes of the political parties to the election of the Chamber of Representatives, No. 3227/1 47. - Draft special law amending, as regards the cumulation of mandates, the special law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions and the special law of 12 January 1989 on the Brussels institutions, Nos 2815/1 to 11. To include in the agenda of the plenary meeting on Thursday afternoon the following items: 44. - Bill on Miscellaneous Income Tax Provisions, Nos. 3147/1 to 7. 45. - Bill to establish local integral security cells for radicalism, extremism and terrorism, Nos. 3209/1 to 4. 46. - Bill (Ms. Inez De Coninck, MM. David Clarinval, Servais Verherstraeten and Patrick Dewael) amending the Act of 22 May 2014 on the costing by the Federal Office of the Plan of Electoral Programmes presented by political parties during the election for the House of Representatives, No. 3227/1. 47. - Special bill amending the Special Act of 8 August 1980 on institutional reforms and the Special Act of 12 January 1989 on Brussels Institutions, Nos. 2815/1 to 11. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u4	Mr President, when is the Social Affairs Committee convened? As you know, we have different texts in plenary. There are also questions in committee, discussions. Is it possible to summon her immediately?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u5	I think it's wiser to wait for a while. I suggest that you call her at 4:00 p.m. What's wrong? If we don't get out, I suggest we contact the committee chairman and ask him to make a proposal. Can everyone agree to that? Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u6	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Fabienne Winckel, Jean-Marc Delizée, Karine Lalieux, Paul-Olivier Delannois.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u7	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mrs Lijnen and Mrs Detiège. I give you the floor, Mrs Detiège.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u8	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of Mrs Nele Lijnen and myself, I will present the committee's report. The draft law presented by Minister Peeters and Minister Ducarme was discussed in the Committee for Business on 3 July 2018. Minister Peeters started and indicated that the draft law aims to restore the tariff freedom of operators of tourist accommodation in the contracts they conclude with platform operators for online reservations and to safeguard fair market practices as well as contractual freedom and freedom of action in the hotel sector. With the emergence of the online reservation platforms, the tourism rental sector has developed strongly over the past ten years, according to the Minister. According to him, the platforms offer benefits for both consumers and hoteliers. Consumers can search, compare and book their hotels on one website. Hotel owners gain increased visibility abroad, allowing them to attract much more customers. According to the Minister, the reservation platforms are therefore no longer to be considered from the market for rental of tourist accommodations. According to Minister Peeters, the great success of the online reservation platforms increases the dependence of hotel owners on such platforms to get their hotel rooms rented. According to him, the online reservation platforms used this dependency to unilaterally impose contractual clauses on hotel owners. The draft law deals with one of these clauses, namely the parity clause. The Minister explained that the online reservation platforms use two types of parity clauses in contracts with hotel owners, namely the extended and limited ones. According to Minister Peeters, the use of such parity clauses is not without effect for hotel owners or consumers. According to him, hotel owners can no longer freely determine or adapt their terms of offer by applying the parity clauses. They are partly losing the freedom to determine their own commercial policy. Consumers are hampered in looking for the most advantageous terms for the same room. In order to overcome these problems, the draft law provides for a ban on the use of parity clauses. The clauses will be automatically null and void, regardless of whether the contract was signed before or after the entry into force of the law, provided that the tourist accommodations covered by the contract are located in Belgium. Minister Ducarme explained that the aim of the draft law is to ensure that operators of tourist accommodation in Belgium can now freely determine the price for the rental of their overnight infrastructure. Consequently, he considered that they would also be free to grant all kinds of discounts or tariff advantages in respect of those stays. In concrete terms, according to Minister Ducarme, the draft law follows the annulment of the tariff parity clauses imposed by online reservation operators, such as Booking.com and Expedia, on operators of tourist accommodations, so that they should be considered non-existent. Consequently, in his view, tourism operators are now free to offer to users, their private or professional customers, more interesting rental conditions and rates than those offered for the same stay through the online reservation platforms, notwithstanding any other contractual clause. According to the Minister, regaining that freedom will not depend on the communication channel used. The provision will apply both to offers made by operators of tourist accommodation on site, by telephone, by fax or by e-mail, and to offers made on their own website. The so-called limited parity clauses prohibit tourist accommodation operators merely to offer more tempting rates and benefits on their own website. According to the Minister, these clauses will also be null and void and will be regarded as non-existent. Finally, the draft law concerns only the tourism companies offered by operators who have the status of a company. It therefore does not apply to accommodation such as student rooms or guest rooms. Mrs Fabienne Winckel accepted the introductory statement by both ministers, as co-author of the added bill. Ms Winckel welcomed the government initiative, which, in her view, was broadly in line with her legislative proposal. For her further comments and those of the other Members in the general discussion that followed, I would like to refer to the report on this subject. Following the various presentations and the Ministers' replies, the draft law was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u9	Mrs Detiège, you will now have the floor in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u10	It is clear that the aim of this bill is to give a supportive signal to the hotel sector, which includes a large number of SMEs. These entrepreneurs may be legally independent, but they seem to be increasingly dependent on online booking platforms. According to ministers, the parity clause imposed on them by these platforms is very problematic. With this draft law, Ministers want to offer a solution which should also be beneficial to consumers, as the hotel owner can once again propose more favourable rates if the customer turns directly to them. In committee, I stressed the positive aspects of the draft law, but like other colleagues, I have made a number of comments or rather concerns for the future. Other EU Member States such as France and Austria have previously taken similar measures. The question is what the effectiveness of these measures is there, knowing that problems of compatibility with European law were pointed out earlier, as was the case, among other things, with the Macron Law in France. Experts also found that the Macron Act was too tailored to Accor's needs. The fear was therefore that the draft law would be pushed through too quickly in Belgium, without taking into account the comments that the Belgian draft law would also, according to the European Commission, be contrary to European competition law. We've had this discussion. According to ministers, the draft law was amended in response to the comments made by the European Commission in Belgium. A second concern that lives is the fact that large hotel chains will be favoured. They often have the means to obtain a better position in search engine search results. For example, I'm thinking of Google. They have something small hoteliers can't afford, especially their own reservation websites. General reservation websites are the best way for small self-employed hotel operators to gain online awareness and access to the growing number of customers booking online. Consequently, the question arises as to whether this bill, by simply picturing the general reservation websites and not the large hotel chains, does not weaken the smaller independent hotel operators. I have heard that general remark from the field. The last concern there is is that weakening online reservation platforms may not be without risk. In Austria, an agreement between the hotel federations led to a general increase in tariffs in that sector. That is why I ask the Ministers once again to ensure that consumers are not harmed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u11	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by thanking Mrs Detiège for the excellent report she has presented to us today. It has now been more than a year since the PS Group tabled a bill to protect tariff freedom in the hotel sector. You will recall that this proposal was filed following an investigation by Test-Achats that had demonstrated the abuse of certain online booking platforms. It was therefore important for us to give some fresh air to the hotel sector and to the consumer in order to negotiate prices and discounts. As we know, the internet clearly upset the hotel market. The Internet brings positive but also calls for better regulation of certain practices. Today, almost all of us have already booked our holidays on the Internet via sites such as Booking or Trivago, but we do not always realize the impact of these sites on our SMEs active in the tourism sector. In fact, commissions on online bookings sometimes reach rates of up to 24%. Online booking platforms have gained a lot of power and this is reflected in aggressive and unfair business practices. One such abuse is the tariff parity clause. It prohibits hotel operators from practicing or announcing prices different from those announced on the booking platform. This clearly undermines the freedom of trade and affects the purchasing power of consumers. So it was time that we could put an end to it. Moreover, the measure you have taken enjoys broad support. Indeed, the three horeca federations of Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels had already long called for the abolition of this tariff parity clause. France, the Netherlands, Germany, Italy and Sweden have already abolished this clause. So we were lagging behind other European countries. Therefore, it is clear that the PS group will support your bill. However, the aspect of control and sanctions seems to us to be insufficient: the only sanction provided for in your draft is the nullity of the clause which violates tariff freedom. In our bill, we went further by providing for control by the Economic Inspectorate and criminal fines for Internet platforms that will use tariff parity clauses. Indeed, we must not lose sight of the fact that operators are often in a situation of economic dependence on platform operators. It is therefore useful for the state to be able to intervene in third parties to better defend our SMEs and entrepreneurs against these Internet giants, which sometimes impose unfair terms on them. Unfortunately, the government did not want to follow us on this point, while other countries have incorporated sanctions into their laws, such as France. Currently, with what is proposed, the government gives operators a means of action but allows them to manage themselves against the giants of the net. We will therefore remain attentive to the application of this law and will ask that it be regularly evaluated, precisely in order to consider controls and sanctions at a later stage. This is a good measure for consumer protection and as support for SMEs active in the tourism sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u12	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in a few years, hoteliers have become economically dependent on online booking platforms, although they offer advantages to them by giving them wide visibility, as well as being able to be accessible at any time via the smartphone or other means of communication. As we said in committee, there were still problems and things to improve. The balance of forces created enabled operators of platforms to impose contractual clauses on operators, such as parity clauses on the price, availability and/or conditions of the accommodation offer. This bill represents a strong signal of support for the Belgian hotel sector, made up largely of SMEs and independents. Indeed, each hotelier will in the future have the possibility to freely determine the rental price of the accommodation offered. I repeat, "free." That was important to us. As a result, they will be free to offer any discounts or tariff advantages to their customers. They will therefore be masters at home and will be able to decide - this "liberal" side of interest to us strongly. Wide support from the federations, consultation, I think the loop is closed and the sector is clearly in favour and happy to see this bill come to fruition. I would also like to point out that this bill is particularly beneficial to consumers. We have talked a lot about SMEs and the self-employed, but there are also consumers in front of them, the prohibition of clauses to improve competition in this market. For these reasons, my group can support and support this text. Thank you for the progress and the work done.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u13	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this draft is just in time for the tourist season. It's plenty of summer and everyone leaves on vacation, we almost do. The draft has been discussed on several occasions and has long been prepared by the relevant ministers. We therefore fully support its content. It does indeed meet the objective of guaranteeing free pricing by operators of tourist accommodation in Belgium. This is to the benefit of both the consumer and the independent accommodation provider and hoteliers. We have had a lot of questions over the last few months about the interests of the self-employed hoteliers. I believe that this proposal, with the ban on parity clauses and the provisions contained in the draft law, responds to the concerns in the hotel sector. In addition, it ensures consumer protection. We therefore fully support this proposal and hope that it can quickly support the independent hotel sector in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u14	Mr President, following our very interesting discussion in committee on the real problem of online platforms for hotel reservations, a problem better known by the definition of "close parity clause", we found that hotel traders no longer had room for manoeuvre vis-à-vis direct customers, consumers we are. We know that these online platforms benefit from very favourable conditions in the proposed contracts, but also from very large profit margins of up to 23%, as has been pointed out. We have also found that countries such as Germany, France and Italy have legislated and cancelled this narrow parity clause, and we in turn believe that this is a good initiative. I asked the minister in March 2017 about this issue that concerns us all. We all expressed ourselves strongly because we were faced with an obvious injustice and a difference in treatment that led the tourism sector, small independents and hoteliers to discrimination over unfair practices. It was not possible to negotiate with operators of platforms such as Booking or Trivago to remove this clause. We must therefore pass legislation that the Ecolo-Groen Group supports. Indeed, it is important to support these independents and SMEs in the tourism and hotel sectors of our country, but also the consumers, for whom this project represents a plus: not to be completely subjected to these platforms and to benefit from direct contact with hoteliers, restaurants and traders in the tourism sector. We believe it is essential to support this sector, which creates sustainable and non-relocable employment at home. We therefore support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u15	Since no one wants to intervene anymore, I give the floor to Minister Peeters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u16	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur for her report. I would then like to thank all the Members for their interventions, which were largely positive both in the majority and in the opposition, with a number of concerns here and there that were also raised in the committee. As far as Mrs Detiège's concerns are concerned, we also indicated in committee that we are engaged in very intensive consultations with all the federations in the hotel sector, with both independent hotel operators and hotel chains, as well as with consumer associations in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. These contacts and the documents we received from other countries, such as Germany, where the parity clause has been banned for some time, clearly show that the use of online booking platforms has continued to increase. In addition, the smaller hotel operators also use this. This is a concern which Mrs Detiège has once again stressed. My colleague, Denis Ducrame, has provided information on this. It is up to him to remind them, if necessary. Mrs Winckel, in committee, we did indeed discuss your proposal to provide for criminal sanctions and control measures. In our view, they are not necessary at all. Indeed, the civil sanction relating to the nullity of the parity clauses introduced by our project is the most appropriate solution. Moreover, it does not require a control measure, since each hotelier is able to check the consequences at his level. That is why we did not provide for criminal sanctions, as you anticipated in your bill. For the rest, I would like to give the floor to my colleague, Minister Ducarme. I would like to thank the Members for all their comments. I hope that we will be able to deal with this matter both for the hotel sector and for the consumer, perhaps not for this holiday period. Everyone will have booked their holidays already, but for the next holiday period. This is a good thing both for the large hotel chains, for the small hoteliers and for consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u17	Mr President, thank you to the various Members for their work in committee and their speeches today. It is interesting to blow up the usual divides between the majority and the opposition in order to come together in favour of a measure such as this, which seems to us to be of common sense in that it will allow operators of tourist housing to be free to choose the prices they decide to apply, on the basis of the various formats available to do so. As you said, Mrs Winckel, margins and commissions in excess of 20% are enormous. Mrs. Cassart was talking about addiction. We must restore freedom, guarantee freedom and protect the freedom of certain small independents and SMEs who are being imposed the abusive clauses of multinational giants. My colleague has answered the question of sanctions. You distinguished yourself by going further in the matter. I respect your approach, but as Mr Peeters has said, we did not consider it necessary to add additional sanctions or control. The nullity of the tariff parity clauses is already a sanction to protect this freedom to which I have just referred.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u18	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u19	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3164/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3164/1) The draft law contains 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u20	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u21	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Klaps, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u22	Mr President, I have a question to ask Minister Ducrame on the subject we are dealing with, namely the various provisions on economics. Minister, this is something I didn't know about when we talked about it in committee. In the meantime, between the vote on the bill in committee and the return to plenary, we, as parliamentarians, but also as a minister, have been questioned by the Order of Architects on the ten-year guarantee of architects and other contractors of the building. These are Rules 101 et seq. of the text adopted in committee. These articles set up a register of compulsory ten-year liability insurance contracts and assign to the Order of Architects the competence to consult it. However, the Order of Architects considers that this provision does not comply with data protection legislation. In addition, he draws attention to the fact that he will not, in any case, be able to ensure that the personal data contained in the register are respected. The Order of Architects also considers these provisions to be inapplicable as they stand and requests to postpone the date of entry into force of the "registry" component to 2019. A letter to that effect would also have been sent to you. Minister, before we vote on the text, we would have liked to know the government's position on this question. What assures us that the text we are voting today will not put architects in trouble?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u23	Mr Minister, I propose that you respond after Mrs Smaers has also asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u24	Mr President, in addition to a number of broad provisions governing economic matters, this bill also provides for a provision for open access and for the provision of scientific articles, published in magazines, to be freely available if scientific research was funded by public funds. In committee, I expressed a number of concerns on the part of independent publishers. They are concerned that the provision on open access restricts or penalises them in their rights as a publisher. I know that the Minister has also taken into account the interests of the publishers and that a solution has been sought, giving them an embargo of 12 months for human and social sciences, and an embargo of six months for other sciences, in order to be the first to publish scientific research as a publisher. I hope that this will indeed respond to their concerns, but I would suggest that once the law has entered into force, an evaluation is carried out after a period of, for example, one year. On this basis, it can be considered whether all parties, both researchers and independent publishers, are not harmed in their interests. An important provision in their statement was also that foreign publishers would not be favoured on the Belgian market and that a level playing field would be provided for both the Belgian and foreign publishing markets. I hope that this will be achieved and taken into account in the evaluation. Finally, there was also a brief discussion on the obligation of insurance on ten-year liability of contractors. I would like to stress that the objective has always been to provide for affordable protection against the most poignant situations of insurance and damage to ten-year liability. The Minister confirmed in committee that the insurance obligation is limited to the closed construction sector in terms of both material and personnel. That was important to stress and confirm in this discussion, so that this was also clearly stated in the explanatory statement. In addition to the concerns expressed about independent publishers, we fully agree with the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Winckel, thank you. I have taken note of the comments you are referring to and I do not agree with the analysis that has been produced on this subject. I had asked that my office return to the Order of Architects to reassure him of the doubts that seemed to persist with regard to the consequences or risks that were raised in this letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u26	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u27	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3143/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3143/5) The draft law contains 105 articles. The bill has 105 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u28	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u29	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u30	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u31	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on business secrets is a sensitive text, which has been the subject of particularly lively debates in the European Parliament. Indeed, there is a tension between two objectives to which, I think, we are all committed: on the one hand, the protection of the know-how of our companies, with the challenge of putting an end to economic espionage between competitive players; on the other hand, freedom of the press, the legitimacy of revealing reprehensible acts, the possibility of informing the citizen. Achieving a balance is not easy. It is therefore no coincidence that in other countries – I am thinking in particular of France – the transposition of this directive has given rise to a virulent debate. In this regard, I would like to quote from a white card signed in France by dozens of NGOs, trade unions, associations of journalists and ordinary citizens: "Mr. President of the Republic, as always, the devil is in the details. The broad definition of business secrecy will allow companies to subtract most of their information from the citizen's debate. From now on, the law will give companies the power to prosecute anyone who dares to reveal sensitive information in the public interest. Worse, even before publication, it will re-establish a form of censorship, a priori of the judge, abolished in 1881 by the Freedom of the Press Act. In the hands of your deputies, this law is an unprecedented censoring tool." Of course, the style of this white card is very incisive. But this clearly shows the contradiction between the two objectives in question: the protection of the know-how of our companies, on the one hand, and freedom of information, on the other. This shows, therefore, the work needed to reconcile these issues. However, I regret to say that in Belgium, this work to achieve a balanced text has completely gone through the trap. Prior to the drafting of the bill, the government did not consider it useful to consult with journalists' associations. The Government consulted with the National Labour Council. That's a good thing. You have consulted the Intellectual Property Council. That's very good. But you did not consider it necessary to consult journalists, despite the lively debate in Europe and France. That is regrettable, although fortunately we have been able to correct this shortcoming in committee. In fact, Minister Peeters has given his consent to audition of journalists' associations in committee. One thing is to consent to invite and audition people, yet another is to listen and hear what they have to say. However, the message from these journalists' associations was very clear. Yes, according to them, there is a risk that the legislation on business secrets will be used to intimidate journalists and whistleblowers. Yes, there is a risk that journalists will be prosecuted in court on behalf of business secrecy, which will certainly create a risk of self-censorship in the journalistic profession. Therefore, yes, this bill needs to be amended because it has insufficient benchmarks. Moreover, Mehmet Koksal, project manager of the European Federation of Journalists, did not launch this consideration lightly. On the contrary, he based it on two concrete examples that we all still have in memory: first, the case of the economic weekly Challenge condemned by the commercial court in Paris for publishing an article on the financial difficulties of the company Conforama and the second, more famous case, that of the LuxLeaks case, where the journalist at the origin of the information was prosecuted for fourteen months. Of course, he was acquitted at the end of a procedure, but how expensive! It is clear, he said, that after fourteen months of costly prosecution, he and his boss will now think twice about it before embarking on a journalistic investigation. Colleagues, this bill needs to be better balanced. In an attempt to do so, we have tabled five amendments which, in accordance with the text of the directive, are aimed at limiting unfair legal remedies and thus at better protecting freedom of expression and freedom of the press. The first two amendments are intended to clarify the definition of business secrecy. Indeed, the definition given in the draft is too broad and causes legal uncertainty. It must be perfectly clear, prior to any legal proceedings, that any information cannot be classified as a business secret, but only that which confers a competitive advantage on its holder and only that for which there is both a legitimate interest in keeping it confidential and a legitimate expectation of protecting that confidentiality. If this is not specified in the law, then the scope of business secrets is unduly broadened and, in the future, any information including, for example, information on illegal tax practices may be described as business secrecy, which is totally contrary to the spirit of the directive. The third amendment which we have proposed and which we are resubmitting here in plenary proposes to clarify that the provisions on business secrecy do not affect the law of 7 April 2005 on the protection of journalistic sources. In committee, Minister Peeters said it was provided for in the law. But that's not true! The bill does not mention the April 7, 2005 act once. We have seen in committee how sensitive this issue of the protection of journalistic sources is. The fourth amendment calls for better protection of whistleblowers. Recital 20 of the Directive provides grounds for strengthening their protection. If they have acted in good faith, in the context of the protection of the right of alert, the judge must reject any request for the application of the measures for reparation relating to business secrets. The fifth amendment says that appropriate sanctions should be provided for in cases of delay or abuse. The draft law makes the choice not to transpose Article 7(2) of the Directive. For journalists' associations, it's a bad choice. They were very clear about this. We therefore propose to punish those who behave abusively or act in bad faith by making manifestly unfounded claims, for example, to delay, intimidate or harass the defendant. These five amendments were developed in committee and were simply rejected by the majority. Convinced of their relevance, we are repositioning them today in plenary. Ladies and gentlemen, the transposition of this directive is important for the protection of the know-how of our companies, but it will also have a significant impact on the exercise of press freedom. I regret that this message was not heard by the majority. Moreover, a few hours after the vote in committee, the association of professional journalists tweeted that it had failed to convince several parties of the majority to support the amendments protecting journalists and whistleblowers. This parody of parliamentary debate, because it is a question of this, is not welcome. Therefore, my group will abstain from this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u32	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the directive that we are transposing today will ensure the same level of protection of undisclosed know-how and commercial information throughout the European Union. This project directly concerns our SMEs, for which business secrets have great economic value, essential for the development of innovation. Until now, there was no legal framework under Belgian law to protect business secrets. Nor are they considered to be intellectual property rights. These shortcomings are corrected by this text. He has received some comments on the protection of journalists and safeguards exist in the area of justice. In conclusion, the protection of journalists, freedom of opinion and expression are fundamental to our group. The press must be able to work effectively if we are to sustain our pluralistic system.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u33	Mr President, this is an important text because it concerns the right to business secrecy, protection against important industrial espionage, but also the freedom to inform journalists and our democracy. It is one of the foundations of our democracy. Tension is always present, particularly in this text, in the debates at committee meetings, in the hearings obtained. Indeed, a balance must be struck between this fundamental freedom to inform and the right to business secrecy. In particular, we environmentalists have paid particular attention to the freedom to inform investigative journalists, who are necessary for our democracy, as we have seen in recent events, and whistleblowers, who are of considerable importance in the denunciation of unjust, erroneous systems, which do an important good because they advance key political causes. We therefore pay particular attention to this profession. Moreover, we are pleased to have held hearings of media representatives and journalists, called for in the debates, which the majority of the government had not thought of hearing. The Greens' point of view in the European Parliament on the adoption of the directive, since we are talking about its transposition, was already very clear: they voted against it because they believe, and we believe, that these matters relating to public health, the environment and the fight against tax fraud cannot, of course, be overshadowed by a system of protection of business secrets. In order to protect our democracy but also our economy, our public health and our environment, this free collection of information must remain guaranteed. In the light of these benchmarks, we can analyse the text currently under discussion. Clearly, the text as it stands is insufficient for us because you did not take all the recommendations into account during the hearings. In our view, the text is currently going too far in protecting business secrets and we see a real danger - as was raised during the hearings - for the protection of the work of journalists, investigative journalists and whistleblowers, especially in the definition in the text, which is too broad for us. In our view, in the current state of the text, the beacons are not sufficient to guarantee real protection for journalists and whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u34	Mr President, in the text before us today, we could simply say that this is a very faithful transposition of Directive 2016/943, but I would like to draw your attention to a fact of importance. Indeed, in a context where international competition is increasingly exacerbated and cases of industrial espionage are not rare, it seems normal that the European Union, as an economic power, should have a legislative arsenal on the subject. Business protection and the fight against industrial espionage are at stake. It could be considered a balanced text because it highlights many exceptions and specificities in relation to the exercise of the protection of business secrets. However, two difficult points were raised in committee. I would like to mention the reaction of the associations of journalists and other media players who, I believe, have rightly been moved by this text because they fear that it will be a new way of putting pressure on them by large companies. It should be recalled that in the world in which the economy is a queen, these large financial companies enjoy a greater financial capacity and could benefit from abuse of procedure or discourage the publication of certain information. I also had the curiosity, like my colleagues, to take a look at the French text of the transposition. It is, of course, very similar to the Belgian text, but we did not find the equivalent of Article 16 of our text, which highlights all the obligations of the judge when dealing with an action concerning business secrets. But there is indeed a concern. I would like to go back to the fact that the Association of Professional Journalists was questioning the fact that journalists are being immunised against certain provisions of the law. I would also like to go back to the fact that these media and journalists hearings led to a lot of proposals. Mr Minister, I have the impression that you have heard them but not listened to them and that, in the text, there are a number of safeguards missing. I would therefore like to refer to this inquiry that I had with the government in 2016, where we were already asking not to support the directive as it stands and to defend at the next Council of the European Union an interpretation of Articles 2 and 4. Mr.Minister, you were committed to it, but nothing has changed in the text, which we did want to change to define as illegal only the acquisition, use or publication of a business secret by a person acting with an economic interest. This has not been done and, beyond this point, there is still what journalists or journalists' associations have told us, but also fears about whistleblowers. These fears have already been raised in committee and let me tell you that if we have already had the opportunity to convene a committee in this Parliament on the issue, in particular, of dieselgate, it is because whistleblowers had mentioned things. When we look at even the corrections that are made on a number of engines compared to diesel engines, we have not yet solved the problem in its entirety. I believe that the articles in this text are far too broad and that safeguards are insufficient. It seems to me that we are going to create an amalgam in this respect. Minister, could you tell us if you will be involved or willing to give careful follow-up to the application of the law, to the procedures initiated, and to discuss with Parliament and the associations whether an evaluation would not require additional safeguards to allow a good balance between the protection of business, the right to information and the actions that whistleblowers can launch? I believe that the text is not balanced and that it could be reviewed in the light of experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u35	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our role as national legislator calls on us to transpose European directives into our domestic law. It should be recalled that a European directive differs from a regulation in that it sets out objectives to be achieved, allowing us the freedom to assess what are the least infringing measures on our freedoms in order to achieve this. Directive 2016/943 on the protection of business secrets, which this bill aims to transpose, is part of it. Not to be misunderstood, the protection of business secrets is necessary to safeguard their commercial value and fair competition between companies. In order to be fully effective, this protection must be subject to harmonised rules at least between the Member States of the European Union. In our domestic law, too, there is no legal, general and homogeneous framework for the protection of business secrets, since the rules differ according to the field concerned, and are thus found in the Labour Contracts Act 1978, in the Economic Law Code, in the Civil Code and in the Criminal Code. The objective of the bill is just and legitimate to clarify our legal framework by specifying when the acquisition, use or disclosure of a business secret is lawful or unlawful. The transposition of this Directive was therefore welcome, but with this fundamental clarification that it provides for a minimum harmonisation of this matter, leaving it to the Member States to provide greater protection against the unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure of business secrets and provided that certain safeguard measures for the protection of the interests of third parties are implemented. It is precisely with the aim of laying down these essential safeguard measures that my colleagues have requested the hearing of representatives of professional associations of journalists, following which amendments have been tabled. While it is important to ensure that companies are protected against theft of their industrial secrets or their disclosure to competitors or the general public, this protection may sometimes conflict with the general interest, which requires a company to publish its accounts and report on its major decisions, in particular to its employees. Similarly, journalists and whistleblowers believe that the right to inform must be able to justify the disclosure of certain information, i.e. illegal acts committed by a company, but also facts which, although sometimes referred to as legal, are nevertheless unethical. We know what happened to scandals like LuxLeaks and Panama Papers. The amendments tabled thus aim at a better balance between the protection of business secrets and respect for our fundamental freedom and, in particular, the right to inform. They pursue several goals. First, clarify the notion of disclosure of business secrecy by stating that the information disclosed must provide a commercial competitive advantage to its holder, so that the information disclosed in the general interest cannot be described as a business secret unlawfully disclosed, therefore to be punished as such. This is the position defended by some French Members in the framework of the legislative text voted last June in France and, today, examined by the Constitutional Council. This position defended by the French deputies was unfortunately not adopted by the French National Assembly. This is a missed opportunity since, as the French magistrate, Mr. Éric Alt, Vice-President of Anticor, the association against corruption and for ethics in politics pointed out, the text voted in France places the journalist in a position of defence to demonstrate to the judge that the disclosure of the facts has a general interest. A second goal in seeking the balance between the protection of business secrets and respect for our fundamental freedoms is to strengthen the protection of freedom of expression and the protection of the confidentiality of journalists' sources. Article 6 of the draft law emphasizes that the provisions on business secrets do not affect the exercise of the fundamental rights enshrined in international or supranational law and the Constitution, including the right to freedom of expression and information, including respect for the freedom of media pluralism. If this clarification is useful, it would nevertheless have had a more certain effect if the entire national law forming part of this equal basis to be respected, in particular the Law of 7 April 2005 on the Protection of Journalistic Sources enshrines the right of journalists to silence their source of information, had also been covered by this provision. A third aim, always in the search for a balance between the protection of fundamental rights and the protection of business secrets, is to ensure better protection of whistleblowers, in full compliance with the Directive, by adding, among the cases of refusal of a claim for compensation for the unlawful acquisition or use of business secrets, cases where the defendant acted in good faith in the exercise of the right of alert. While transparency must be the rule and secrecy the exception, the logic of the text is exactly the opposite and will therefore force whistleblowers to provide proof of their good faith in order to be protected. A fourth aim for an adequate balance is to insert sanctions in cases of delaying or abusive proceedings against a journalist and, possibly, his or her source persons, in order to avoid possible attempts to silence the press. Despite the indispensable nature of these amendments, none was accepted by the majority. This rejection suggests that the framework proposed by Europe prevents proper protection of investigative journalists and whistleblowers, even though this should not be the case. On the contrary, Europe sets a framework, but it is the responsibility of the Member States, as at the time of each transposition of a directive, to supplement or even clarify this framework with measures to safeguard our fundamental freedoms as best as possible, including freedom of expression, which exists only if there is freedom of inquiry, investigation, especially for journalists, and protection of their sources. For this reason, my group will abstain from voting on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u36	Mr President, in committee, Minister Peeters gave us a moderate enthusiasm for this bill to transpose the European directive on the protection of business secrets into Belgian law. A moderate enthusiasm because, for him, it was a simple formality, a simple transposition of a series of provisions to avoid industrial espionage. The intense debates that took place when the directive was adopted at European level in 2016 already suggested that it was much more than just a formality. In fact, with this text simply intended to protect companies from the theft of their business secrets by competitors, we take the opportunity to open the possibility of also prosecuting non-competitors. These are dangerous provisions for journalists and whistleblowers. For years now, more and more scandals have revealed the questionable practices of multinationals. Logically the priority would be to create a legal framework to encourage and protect whistleblowers. But here, exactly the opposite is done! Is it really surprising in the eyes of multinationals such as Nestlé, Michelin, Alstom (and the entire chemical industry) who have pushed for the adoption of this European directive, as Martin Pigeon of the Corporate Europe Observatory (CEO) has revealed? The main challenge of these multinationals rather than industrial espionage is to have legal tools to prevent the publication of confidential and compromising information about their questionable practices, such as, for example, the Panama Papers scandal and others. Antonio Gambini, a researcher on tax justice at the CNCD-11.11.11, pointed out the fundamental problem of this directive saying that in practice this text will prevent "democratic control over entire parts of economic activity". Minister Peeters tried to reassure us in committee by saying that journalists and whistleblowers had nothing to fear. However, the Association of Professional Journalists of Belgium does not share this view. They asked for changes to the text, which the minister and the majority refused. The fundamental problem lies in the fact that this legislation provides only for relative and controversial protection of whistleblowers and the media. The safeguards introduced in the form of exceptions to the protection of business secrets are largely inadequate. I confine myself here to two points. First, we put the burden of proof on the whistleblowers. It is up to them to prove the validity of their actions and to prove that they have acted for the purpose of protecting the public interest. Secondly, the drafting of tax reliefs, of ruling for multinationals, as PwC has done, is just as questionable as it is legal and is therefore not covered by exceptions to the protection of business secrecy. It should also be stressed that these new provisions are part of a Belgian context in which there is no comprehensive protection for whistleblowers, as the Association of Professional Journalists also pointed out during the hearings. However, there is no shortage of political commitments and declarations in this regard. The report of the Dieselgate Committee speaks of this. This Parliament has voted a resolution on this matter. The Panama Papers Committee's report speaks of this even if it was not very avant-garde as a provision or, in any case, as a recommendation. Still it is that these beautiful words remain words in the air. In practice, nothing has been done. The legislation that we are called upon to vote on today is clearly not going to improve things. The Association of Professional Journalists has cited several recent cases in different European countries indicating that companies do not hesitate to use this type of legislation to prevent the work of investigative journalists or whistleblowers. They cited, among other things, abusive prosecution of journalists and their sources, such as in the case of the LuxLeaks, but also censorship of articles related to the difficulties of companies or the risk of self-censorship in the profession. I would like to highlight the risk that this bill presents in terms of transparency of justice. In a trial where a business secret will be invoked, all parties will be held incommunicado during the trial and even after the trial with criminal sanctions against those who do not respect that secret. The judge may also take special measures such as restricting access to documents, hearings and even judicial decisions. In conclusion, this legislation endangers the right to inform. With this bill, the protection of business secrecy will take precedence over the general public interest. This extension of the cult of secrecy is another violation of our democratic rights in a context where trade unionists are condemned, the right to strike is broken at SNCB or in prisons, where RTBF journalists are put in hiding because they dare to film a centre that will lock up children. The PTB-GO cannot accept this bill. Freedom to inform is a pillar of democracy. It is time to prosecute the great financial fraudsters and criminals rather than punish the citizens who denounce them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u37	There are no other speakers left, then I give the floor to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed in committee all the arguments that are again raised here in plenary. As far as the press is concerned, I want to repeat the answer I gave in committee. First of all, I would like to stress that freedom of expression and information, which includes freedom of the press and pluralism of the media, is an important value in a free and modern society. I am of the view that the bill contains sufficient safeguards to avoid endangering the investigation, gathering of information and reporting by journalists and whistleblowers. I have put forward a number of points for this in committee. Firstly, not everything about which one wishes to report is covered by the definition of professional secrecy. The definition clearly refers to information which is classified, which therefore has commercial value and which is subject to measures to keep this information secret. I also quoted clause 7 of the bill. This Article provides that the acquisition, use or disclosure of a business secret shall be considered lawful, provided that national or European law so requires or permits. I have stressed that we can think, among other things, of rules on freedom of expression, freedom of the press and the law on source secrecy. Moreover, in the event that the acquisition, use or disclosure of business secrets by a journalist or whistleblower would be considered unlawful, two exceptions to this particular situation are provided for in the new Article 11.332/5 of the Economic Law Code, Article 9 of the Bill. The claim must be rejected in such cases. This article refers literally to the freedom and pluralism of the media or the disclosure of misconduct. Finally, if the acquisition, use or disclosure of professional secrecy by a journalist or whistleblower is considered unlawful and the exceptions laid down could not be applied in one way or another, the court should still take into account the new Articles 11.336.3 of the Code of Economic Law and 1369quater of the Court's Code. According to those provisions, when making a judgment, the courts should take into account a number of elements, including the legitimate interests of the parties and the possible effects of the measures which they may impose, the legitimate interests of third parties and the protection of fundamental rights. Those provisions allow the court to mitigate its ruling if the consequences for the journalist or the whistleblower would be excessive. I trust that these provisions will effectively protect journalists and whistleblowers and ensure that they do so. Since the very interesting hearing has been referred to, I would also like to quote Mr Fernand de Visscher. I quote from the report: 'If the concepts behind definitions are clearly respected, Mr de Visscher will not encounter problems with the definition of trade secret as set out in the directive. As a result, a fairly large proportion of pertinent information will remain available to investigative journalists due to non-compliance with the definition of professional secrecy.'. I would also like to quote: 'The speaker therefore considers that the new legislation on the protection of trade secrets protects investigative journalism. Anyone acting in good faith will be free from persecution.'. So also during the hearing, eminent lawyers spoke. They give sufficient assurance that the concerns I share with my colleagues and which have been formulated here are not necessary. I agree with Mr de Lamotte, we will evaluate the legislation. In practice, if we encounter problems and find that this is not in the right direction, we will obviously be able to draft a law. However, I am convinced that the legislation is good and that there is no danger, contrary to what some think. We need to give the law a chance and give us the opportunity to enforce it. If we find problems after a year, we can draft another text if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u39	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u40	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3154/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3154/4) The draft law contains 44 articles. The bill has 44 articles. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u41	• 7 – Fabienne Winckel cs (3154/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u42	Art. 9
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u43	Art. 29/1(n) • Fabienne Winckel cs (3154/5) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u44	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Articles 2, 6 and 9.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u45	Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 3 to 5, 7, 8, 10 to 44.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u46	Since some colleagues are still in the Committee on Social Affairs, I shall defer item 4 on the 54/3200 project on our agenda and continue with item 5 on the 54/3121 project. We will return to point 4 in about an hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u47	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1808: Fabienne Winckel, Karine Lalieux, Nawal Ben Hamou, Daniel Senesael, Özlem Özen, Alain Mathot, Gwenaëlle Grovonius 2067: Muriel Gerkens, Evita Willaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u48	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The two rapporteurs were Mr Piedboeuf and Mrs Smaers. They refer to their written report. Mrs Winckel has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u49	Minister, the 6% reduction in VAT on women's hygiene products is a good measure. Indeed, we have already asked many questions and, some time ago, with my group, we also tabled a bill. We are clearly satisfied that the text we tabled gave your government the impetus to move things forward. Recently, women's sanitary protection products were taxed at 21%, i.e. the maximum rate applied in Belgium. These products were not recognized as essential products, unlike other products such as chocolate, flax, coffee or art objects. However, it is impossible to deny the basic necessity of these essential products in terms of hygiene but also of human dignity. The European Union has for a long time already mentioned these products as goods subject to reduced rates. Moreover, many European states had already taken the step by lowering their VAT rates. The United Nations and UNESCO also recommend, both in terms of access to education for girls and as a public health measure, that menstrual hygiene be taught and that protections be promoted. In Belgium, the Belgian Collective, which I thank for its collaboration, has embarked on this fight, highlighting in particular the inequality between men and women linked to menstruation and the costs involved. The purchase of these women's sanitary protection products results in expenditure on women and it is clear that the use of these protections is not for aesthetic purposes at all. This is an essential purchase to ensure the hygiene of women and enable them to continue to lead a normal life during periods of menstruation. Aware of all these arguments, I had already tabled a bill a long time ago. I've also called you several times. We are therefore very pleased to see this matter moving forward. I've already had the opportunity to tell you in committee. Mr. Minister of Finance, this is a very good measure that you have taken and that will reduce the cost of these purchases for women. I also welcome the removal of a measure that was discriminatory between men and women. Thank you for making progress on this issue, even though it has been a bit of a drag.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u50	Mr President, in many countries VAT is levied on tampons, sanitary towels and insert crosses. In some countries, these menstrual products fall into the high VAT rate of 21% for luxury products. This has so far been the case in Belgium, although European legislation has for many years been able to apply a reduced VAT rate to necessary products and services. According to Europe, in addition to food and water, contraception and products for female hygiene are included. For this reason, and that is why I would like to come forward, I already tabled a legislative proposal in 2005 to reduce VAT on these products. To convince my colleagues, I simultaneously took a bloody action in this hemisphere. With flyers that looked like a blood stain and that we laid down on all the banks, I wanted to draw the attention of my colleagues to make them aware that women need tampons and sanitary towels and they do not choose to menstruate. I never forget the look of President Herman De Croo at the time, nor of my male colleagues, such as Mr Annemans, as well as of journalists, who looked very strange when they got hold of a flyer. At the time, Minister of Finance, Mr Reynders, got hold of the flyer, or the blood stain, and he agreed with me. Indeed, it is illogical for female hygiene products to be subject to the VAT rate of 21%. He promised to abolish the tampontaks, but unfortunately without results. Colleagues, we are now 13 years later and finally it is time. I would very much like to thank the Minister for Finance, Mr Van Overtveldt, and a number of colleagues, including Mrs Winckel, who has just intervened, Mrs Gerkens and Mrs Jiroflée, for their support and for their efforts to convince the Minister of the usefulness of the measure. It has been briefly cited, but monthly periods cover 6.5 years in a woman's life. A reduction in VAT on this necessary product would save between EUR 2 000 and EUR 3 000 per woman throughout her life. I have two daughters of my own, and when I make the bill, the amount will rise. Finally, I would like to thank Mrs Vera Claes, known from the socialist women's movement on the side, for believing in my proposal from the outset. I can assure you that a number of people frowned at that time. Without her, I would never have been able to achieve the action in Parliament and perhaps the proposal would not have been accepted today. I thank everyone for the commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u51	Mr President, I would like to highlight two points in this proposal on VAT. The first confirms the exemption from VAT on food donations. This can be seen as support for direct solidarity expressed by traders who give food banks products close to the expiry date, while still being consumable. In the eyes of environmentalists, this gesture is also an essential part of the fight against food waste, a theme that is probably underestimated. Globally, it is estimated that one third of the food produced is never consumed, but rather disposed of. In Brussels, the services responsible for promoting better environmental behaviour estimate the amount of food products that are thrown into our garbage bins every year at 25 000 tonnes. This is huge, especially when we think of those who fail to have a quality and sufficient volume of food on a daily basis. It is also true in terms of the environmental, social and economic impact of this non-consumption. Therefore, by facilitating the donation of food, we can try to bring the volumes produced closer to the volumes consumed and thus bring production back to a level necessary to feed each. This positive measure confirms a circular that was already applicable following several parliamentary issues. We therefore wanted to stress this favourably. The second aspect I would like to address is the question of VAT on women's hygiene products, which is at the heart of the bill against the "buffer tax", tabled by my colleagues Muriel Gerkens and Evita Willaert, as well as by Mrs Winckel and Mrs Detiège. As they have said, the products in question are essential goods which deserve a VAT reduced to 6 %. It's in the logic of things. Nevertheless, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this reduction in VAT actually leads to a reduction in the purchase price of these essential products. We had tabled an amendment to that effect, incorporating one of the sections of the bill that we tabled. He wasn't detained. The Minister of Finance referred us to the powers of the Minister of Economy, Mr Peeters. It will indeed be necessary to ensure that this reduction in VAT will improve the accessibility of these essential products and not increase the margins of producers or distributors. We will be paying attention to this and, no doubt, questions will be asked as soon as the Minister of Economy comes back.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u52	Mr Gilkinet, in committee, we have already discussed both of your points. About the first one, I fully agree with you. As far as food is concerned, specific questions arise as to what is done with the surpluses and the origin of the products. I think it's a big debate. You're absolutely right to draw attention to this. As regards the second, you yourself mentioned that in committee, I told you that the degree of impact of this reduction in VAT on prices will depend on the degree of competition between the different producers or suppliers of these products. This falls within the competence of my colleague Mr Kris Peeters. Ladies Winckel and Detiège, I can only humbly accept your congratulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u53	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u54	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3121/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3121/4) The draft law contains 19 articles. The bill has 19 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u55	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u56	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Piedboeuf and Mr Van Biesen, refer to their written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u57	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3148/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3148/4) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in The title in French has been amended by the commission into a bill aimed at optimising aid for employers who invest in an area in difficulty." The draft law has 10 articles. The bill has 10 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u58	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u59	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two draft laws. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u60	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Piedboeuf and Mr Klaps, refer to their written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u61	We have discussed the articles of the Bill No. 3172 on. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3172/3) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of the bill No. 3172. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3172/3) The draft law contains 134 articles. The bill has 134 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u62	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We have discussed the articles of the Bill No. 3178 on. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3178/3) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of the bill No. 3178. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3178/3) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u63	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u64	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u65	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u66	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3179/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3179/3) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u67	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u68	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Leen Dierick.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u69	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Wollants. Mr Wollants refers to the written report but nevertheless wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I refer to the written report. Allow me to join immediately with my remarks in the general discussion. We are discussing today the draft law which aims to amend the provisions on the strategic reserve. We all remember that the mechanism of the strategic reserve was created by the previous legislature to ensure that we would always have sufficient power. Remember the difficult moments when we had to talk here in the Chamber about, among other things, exit plans. The strategic reserve was one of the tools, so there was no need for shutdown plans anymore. However, the new mechanism of the strategic reserve was not notified to the European Commission. That is why this legislature had to do so. A number of comments were made and I am pleased that a number of points in the government agreement, which are important for the proper functioning of the market, are taking shape today. I am referring, among other things, to the fact that the strategic reserve includes not only production facilities and demand management, but also emergency groups. That important point, which was put on the table during the discussion of the coalition agreement, is now being achieved. You also remember that in recent years we have talked about a two-speed strategic reserve. The reserve from production facilities was suddenly granted for three years, while the reserve could only be used for one year as a result of better demand management. We ended up in the very strange situation where, in terms of demand management, we actually had to compete with reserve from installations which had obtained three-year approval. That provision too is now being amended. The bar will be leveled. Everyone will be able to participate in the same way, so that we put the right players at the table and keep them at the table. With the text we are taking a big step in the right direction. The various ministers can ensure that contracts are properly applied at the Council of Ministers. After all, let us not forget that energy is not just a theme for the Minister for Energy. It's also about economy, about work, about progress. So let us not dwell on that. I welcome the draft law, of which we will certainly reap the benefits in the future. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u71	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u72	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (320/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3208/3) The draft law has 12 articles. The bill has 12 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u73	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u74	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Clarinval, Mr Janssen, Mr Crusnière and Mr Van Biesen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u75	Mr President, it is a strange matter that this project has arrived in Parliament in catini! It is about something important and we will come back to it tomorrow or Thursday, on the occasion of the examination of a large draft framework law for the protection of personal data. But here, we are inventing a social security-related information security committee, a sectoral committee that had been cancelled in December and, suddenly, with the return of July, just as spring comes back every year, the security committees left in winter to return to the beautiful season! Another reason for astonishment is that while the framework law has been discussed for hours in the Justice Committee, in the Social Affairs Committee, there is no expert or expert, there is no answer to a whole series of specific questions, but there is a small draft which is an exception to the framework law which has not yet been voted on in the Justice Committee. There are many reasons for astonishment! The question was raised as to whether or not this project was not contrary to the European regulation. No answer! In the Committee on Justice, I have asked whether there is a project planned in committee for which the European Commission has warned about the possibility of being outside the strict application of European rules. No answer! We don't know well... In short, this is a rather surprising disorder, a lack of expertise and problematic professionalism given the importance of this debate. The opinion of the Council of State - because it is not only the opposition that says it, but only the majority is silent because it is easier - stresses that the two approaches to the framework law and the exception that is the current draft are radically different. They reflect a lack of a comprehensive vision, leading to serious doubts about respect for the principle of equality in the protection of the right to privacy. That's what we call "a merry mess." Of course, this is important because we are dealing here with an area of privacy. But we will abstain in the vote on this particular project.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u76	Mr Dedecker was also present for the debate. Colleagues, I want to play the game fair. This is a draft by Mrs De Block, who, I have heard, is on her way. What Mrs Onkelinx has said still seems to me to be of fundamental importance. That requires a response from the minister concerned and I cannot imagine that the Minister of Finance could do so instead of Ms De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u77	Mr President, that is why my group leader asked that this draft, which is an exception, be included in the discussion of this framework law. It made sense. I don't know why we refused it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u78	The Conference of Presidents did not accept that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u79	She's not always very wise.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u80	That's right... I didn't say anything! No! No! We're still on what's been decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u81	Mr. President, Mrs. Onkelinx is right. Mr. Van Hecke fought in the Conference of Presidents, with others, to ensure that this project was joined. If it cannot be joined by a decision of the Conference of Presidents and given the absence of Mrs De Block to answer our questions, I propose that, even if it is not a decision of the Conference of Presidents, we have this debate tomorrow, along with Mr De Block's bill. De Backer and Mrs De Block join the discussion tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u82	This decision of the Conference of Presidents cannot be changed now. That is why I propose that we suspend the meeting until the Minister arrives. She's on her way, I've heard from the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u83	Can I make a practical-practical proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u84	Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u85	You may wish to suspend consideration of this text. Where is the minister who cancelled a whole commission, when we had a lot of oral questions? You passed texts while we were in committee. Could we suspend consideration of this bill and, in the meantime, address another bill to avoid wasting our time?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u86	If it's possible, yes. We will resume consideration of this text later. We continue with Mrs Lanjri's bill. We attach items 11, 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u87	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 313: Nahima Lanjri, Sonja Becq, Stefaan Vercamer - 2240: Nahima Lanjri, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Catherine Fonck, Stephanie Thoron - 573: Catherine Fonck - 912: Karin Jiroflée, Karin Temmerman, Peter Vanvelthoven - 2464: Jan Spooren, Daphné Dumery, Wouter Raskin, Wim Van der Donkt, David Clarinval, Stéphanie Thoron I propose that a single discussion be devoted to the legislative proposals. I suggest that you have a single discussion on these bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u88	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. I assume that all the rapporteurs, in particular Mr Gilkinet, Mrs Thoron and Mr Delizée and Mr Lachaert, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u89	Mr President, you have rightly referred to the three reports which concern these three texts to be examined. On the other hand, a committee meeting has just been held. To be puristic, a rapid oral report of the commission would normally be required. If you will allow me, and if you do not want to cut off my colleague Delizée, who probably wanted to intervene, we must make a quick oral report. That will be brief. Colleagues who come in, it's too late, we've started. With regard to the adoption and flexible assistance leave, care leave and parental leave bills, four amendments were tabled by the majority. As regards adoption, this is an adaptation of the entry into force, fixed on 1 January 2019, and therefore of the text accordingly. As regards the flexibility of thematic leave, it is a legal correction, with reference to the right article of the basic law, and a semantic correction. The vote was taken unanimously on these various amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u90	Thank you for the correction, Mrs Fonck! I give the floor to the first petitioner, Mrs Lanjri.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u91	Mr President, I am very pleased that, after a long period of about one and a half years of work in Parliament, we have been able to find a breakthrough in the flexibilisation of parental leave. Workers with children can now take full-time parental leave for four months, either half-time eight months, or one day a week for twenty months. With the present proposal, it will be possible to take half a day of parental leave per week, or one day every 14 days. We do not increase the number of days of leave because the total number of days of parental leave is converted into four full-time months each. However, we offer the opportunity to take parental leave more flexibly. Parents therefore enjoy greater freedom in taking parental leave when they consider it important, tailored to each family. For example, if you are in a system of co-parenting, you can take parental leave every 14 days. For example, anyone wishing to record only half a day a week will be able to do so from now on. Figures show there's a need for it. In the last year, 63 739 parents took parental leave on a monthly basis, most of whom, almost 44 000 parents, chose one fifth of the formula. The current proposal responds to the question of taking up only half a day a week, for example, or one day every 14 days. Such opportunities for parental leave also weigh less heavily on the family budget, since the parent concerned is still working at 90%. Parental leave can also be taken for a longer period. For parents in co-parenting, it also means that they can take up parenting when they need it. I would like to stress that this further form of flexibilisation, which we are now adding, is only possible if the worker asks for it and if the employer agrees. The current full-time, half-time or one-fifth parental leave systems are a right that is retained as it is in the existing rules, but for those who wish to take one-tenth parental leave, this is a favour measure, which means that the employer must also be able to agree with this flexibility. We are convinced that employer and employee will be able to reach an agreement here. In fact, some time ago, the National Labour Council gave a positive opinion on this proposal. Following the adoption of our legislative proposal, we already had a lot of questions, especially about when we will be able to enjoy that leave in 1/10. The RVA must also give its administrative approval for this. Implementation KBs also need to be drawn up. Therefore, I assume that the law will enter into force by 1 January 2019 at the latest. However, it is important that we can already give people information about the new scheme, and that we ask the RVA to place the information on the new modalities on the website now and to make it possible for applications to be submitted as early as October. This is how we can start from 1 January 2019. I checked it out. If you want to take parental leave now, you have to apply for it three months in advance. It therefore seems logical to me to urge the Minister responsible, and especially the RVA, to quickly disseminate information on the new measure and to ensure that the applications can be made as early as October. I would also like to say a few words about the other proposal that I tabled together with Mrs Van Vaerenbergh and my colleagues on adoption and foster care leave. Currently, adoptive parents receive six weeks' leave if they adopt a child up to 3 years. If the child is between 3 and 8 years of age, leave is four weeks. Children over the age of 8 are not even entitled to adoption leave at all. We found this inequality discriminatory and we wanted to get rid of it. That's what we did with this bill. From now on, every adoptive parent starts with six weeks, regardless of the age of the child. It is important that a period is offered in which both parents and children can get to know each other and build a relationship of trust. The first period of adoption is very important. That's not related to age. Children aged 6 or 8 also need a period to be able to attach themselves. That is why we provide for this period and wanted to eliminate discrimination in the field of age. We also provide for the possibility for adoptive parents to take adoption leave for inter-country adoption four weeks prior to the actual adoption of the child, in order to allow the child to be picked up abroad if necessary. Furthermore, we also provide for a parallel scheme of six weeks of foster care leave for parents who have long-term foster care for a child. In the long term, we want to extend the adoption and foster care leave. We start with six weeks for each parent, but we want to extend that in the long run to 17 weeks for both parents together. That figure corresponds to the number of weeks a biological mother receives, 15 weeks maternity leave and 10 days paternity leave. We also propose that the six weeks be taken in by each parent and that the five additional weeks be divided between both parents or taken in by one of the parents. I would also like to say that we fully support Mr Spoorten's proposal. He'll elaborate on that later. We believe that the inclusion of medical and parental leave can be even more flexible. Anyone who wishes to suspend his work performance completely should be able to do so. From now on, this can also be recorded per week. We have added this with an amendment to Mr Spoorten's proposal. It used to be at least a month. Now we can do it in a week. People who wanted to record this half-time had to record it earlier for at least two months. Now we can do that for a month. We are therefore providing greater flexibility to better reconcile family and labour. In this way one can include weeks in the period when one needs it. Workers are not obliged to take up a full month in this way. For example, one can only take two weeks in a holiday period. We think that is positive. This additional form of flexibility is a favour, at the request of the employee and only if the employer agrees. Of course, we must be able to plan this. This must also be feasible for the employer. However, we are convinced that this is a win-win situation for everyone. An employer who prefers to have his employee back faster will, of course, also grant it for a shorter period if the employee indicates that he does not need a longer period. Mr President, so far my speech has been made. I would like to emphasise that I am pleased that we have been able to work together with the various groups in order to achieve a real breakthrough in these matters. I hope that we will soon be able to do so again on a number of issues which still need to be refined and on a number of new proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following on from Mrs Lanjri, I would like to say once again that our group is very pleased that we will give the green light to adoption and foster care leave. The adoption leave will be increased. As far as foster care leave is concerned, at the moment, foster parents are only on six days' leave to settle their administrative matters and are not on leave to take on their care duties. We want to change that in the future. From 1 January 2019 the foster parents will receive six weeks' leave each, and that will be increased every two years. This gives from 2019 17 weeks of foster care leave, six weeks per parent plus five weeks to divide each foster family. They must be minors and/or children in a long-term foster care situation. We are very happy. On 1 September, it is two years since the law on the statute for foster care came into force, which clearly defines the rights and obligations of foster parents, foster children and natural parents. We hope that with this leave we will be able to warm up more people to foster care, because at the moment 600 children are still waiting for a family. So it's a good step forward for potential foster parents. I would also like to thank colleagues for their support for this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u93	Mr President, I have been mobilising for a long time so that parents who adopt are no longer "half-parents" and are regarded as parents like the others. My colleagues have recalled the current adoption deadlines. Of course, the text voted goes less than the proposal I introduced myself, but I joined it in order to be able to gain a first step for the adoptive families. Of course, there is still a long way to go. We have planned this development over the next few years, with the possibility of accelerating the upgrade to other families with children. This seems obvious to me, since the time given by parents to children during adoption is extremely important not only to establish a link between them, but also for the future development of this child in terms of social and school integration. Mr President, as long as I am there, I would like to point out how important it was for us to move forward on all matters relating to the flexibility of parental leave with the possibility of parental leave of a tenth or fifth time every fortnight. It is a frequent demand, especially for Wednesday afternoon, or even one day a week. This is truly consistent with the realities of families. This flexibility is necessary. This is in line with increased flexibility for assistance leave, care leave and parental leave. Workers are increasingly being asked for flexibility, but this must be possible in both directions. This is clear to us in terms of reconciling family and working life. I am delighted that we have been able to take these steps. These are only stages. We'll have to go further. I hope that we will also be able to do so together. I end by saying that I have positioned myself on this theme in a logic that transcends the majority/opposition fracture. First of all, because these are issues that I have been carrying for a long time and I really wanted to move forward. On many occasions, I interviewed the government for progress. I welcome the majority, but also the opposition colleagues who joined the vote. Ultimately, what is important is to get progress for all families.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u94	Mr President, I understand that we are dealing with all these flexibilisation proposals together. As the author, I would just like to comment specifically on the proposal on the flexibilisation of thematic leave. It is a short and fairly simple bill that can have a big impact on the daily lives of many people. We are talking about three types of thematic leave, namely parental leave, medical leave and palliative leave, as part of this legislative proposal. What do we mean by flexibilisation? In this legislative proposal it is specifically about the fact that one can get a regime that differs per week in the event of these engagements. So far, someone who took a fifth thematic leave has had to take a day each week. At 50 % thematic leave it had to be two and a half days each week. Now one can slide between weeks, with the understanding that this slide must be done within the same month. This gives the employer a certain predictability. For the employee, it also means that there can never be any loss of income. So he's not gonna make any less money one month than the other. It also avoids additional administrative burdens by recalculating over the months. What are the benefits of this? So far we have had a fairly inflexible system that ignores a number of today's realities. First of all, we have many more women in the labour market. Consequently, many more children grow up in families in which both parents work. There is therefore a need for greater flexibility to improve the balance between private life and work. There are also new forms of family, such as co-parenting, where a weekly care scheme does not always apply. The co-parent then has every interest in being able to take the leave at the time when the child is under his or her care. In addition, we also have the school holidays of one and two weeks and the even longer summer vacation where it is indicated that one can take more leave than in other periods. It also has to do with other reasons for tailor-made work for the employee. There may be many other reasons why a flexible inclusion can be in the employee's favour. Finally, the employer's needs can often be met. So it's a mutual agreement. For example, absence on certain days can be difficult to accept, for example at a work peak or in the absence of other workers. These are features of a new reality that can be better addressed with a more flexible regime. In conclusion, I would like to stress that these are not supplementary leave days and that they are also optional. At all times, therefore, the employee's current rights with regard to thematic leave will be maintained if an agreement between employer and employee is not reached. This agreement between the employer and the employee must also ensure that the employer is able to work. I would like to thank everyone for their constructive cooperation and the pertinent questions until today. I think this is a good example of cross-party cooperation for the benefit of the users of thematic leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u95	Mr President, all our colleagues are very happy. I am also very pleased that these pieces of legislation, these bills, are finally being tabled in plenary for debate, and I am sure that they will be voted on this Thursday. We are very pleased that these projects will succeed, as they will improve the lives of parents and families. Indeed, our Socialist Group was prepared to examine them and vote on them for a very long time. We were in favour, we were in favour and we hoped that this vote would take place much earlier. With regard to parental leave at a tenth time, Ms Lanjri's and the CD&V Group's good proposal for a law was submitted to the government. But it took almost three years, and no less than seven Social Affairs Committees, for this project to be completed in plenary session and finally we can adopt it. Last week, at the committee meeting, we talked about this period of almost three years and we were told that the social partners took time to decide. However, we note in the report that the social partners delivered a unanimous opinion on 20 December 2016, when they asked us to vote for this measure. More than a year and a half ago! We live in the country of surrealism. Indeed, not seeing this project succeed, a little exasperated by the dissension in the majority on certain issues on 16 May 2017, at one of the social affairs committees, our group asked to put the CD&V bill to the vote. A country of surrealism, the majority voted against voting, including the CD&V group that did not vote on its proposal! We need to find consensus... I complete the history, Mr. President, to say that we did not rally at the last minute. On July 12, 2017, about a year ago, we tabled an amendment to the "Miscellaneous Provisions in Social Matters" bill that introduced this form of parental leave. In short, today, we are happy, like the colleagues of the majority, to finally land and allow parents to organize themselves in a more flexible way. Finally, this objective is at stake in this debate and having brought together the discussions on parental leave is a good initiative. The aim of the project is to enable workers to better reconcile work and family life. We will also support the majority's proposal on adoption leave, which was voted on in the Social Affairs Committee. We would have preferred to vote for the text of the sp.a or the cdH, because they granted the leave directly and not in 2027, with somewhat different terms. There is a consensus on a text, we will do it, better late than never. You understand, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that our group, with enthusiasm, will finally vote for these texts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after long months of patience, negotiations and debates, I am delighted, as Mr Delizée has done, to see this text on the benches of this House. The thread followed by Members during these debates is the desire to provide workers with more flexibility. Indeed, the evolution of technology, the gradual but rapid transformation of the labour market and the evolution of our societies and the family model cause the worker to find himself sometimes confronted with a dilemma: the organisation between work and the family. We have therefore decided to provide greater flexibility in the labour relations between the worker and his employer in order to better reconcile work and private life. As we know, well-being at work is a key factor in the worker's development and contributes positively to the worker's productive capacity. On the other hand, a stressed worker who does not manage to reconcile family and professional life runs a serious risk of dismissal in the long run. We wanted to provide greater flexibility in the management of working time, and for this we had to relax our labour legislation, which, admittedly, is far from being the most flexible in the European Union. We have therefore focused our reform on three points. I will first talk to you about parental leave at 1/10th time, because many workers in Belgium benefit from parental leave which allows them to be absent from their work to look after their children until the age of 12. It must be noted that this mechanism is very successful. Until now, parental leave could be taken full-time, part-time or fifth-time for four, eight or twenty months, respectively. Many workers took parental leave for a fifth time by default. Others decided not to use it either because the absence from work was too long or because the financial loss associated with the leave was a heavy burden to bear financially. As a first step, some questioned the desirability of creating an additional modality for parental leave. What about the impact on the organisation of work within a company? This is why an opinion was requested from the National Labour Council. The social partners have been supportive. This was confirmed in the framework of the 2017-2018 interprofessional agreement. Patrons and trade unions informed the government of their desire to extend the parental leave scheme to the tenth time. It is true that extending the system to the tenth time will have a budgetary impact of around EUR 1.4 million at cruising speed. But in the balance, the gain that this type of reform can bring to all workers is more important. As I said, this will bring more flexibility. Parents will have the opportunity to take a Wednesday afternoon, to leave earlier, every day, to pick up the children at school or arrive a little later to be able to drop them off. As we know, it is not easy nowadays to combine your parent's life perfectly with an increasingly busy job. This extension of parental leave will therefore provide more, more flexibility for working parents. At the end of 2016, the Prime Minister had fully supported the interprofessional agreement, including parental leave. The committee voted unanimously. It is therefore clear that our group will support this bill. This brings me to adoption leave and foster family leave. Like the discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs, the proposal on extending adoption leave and introducing parental leave for foster families has also been the subject of lengthy work. As indicated in the title, the proposal deals voluntarily with two aspects: the first concerns adoption leave; the second concerns parental leave for the foster family. So far, the law of 3 July 1978 granted parents who adopted a six-week leave if the child was three weeks old, and four weeks if the child was older. The aim was to gradually align adoption leave with maternity leave, but, of course, the intention is not to consider adoption leave as maternity leave. Maternity leave must be used not only for the mother-child relationship, but also and above all for the mother to recover physically and physiologically from childbirth. However, the persistent difference between the two should be gradually eliminated. Indeed, both the adoptive parents and the child themselves need a period to acclimatize themselves to this new life, need time to learn and get acquainted, to fix roots. And here, citizens facing this situation made it clear that the six weeks granted were insufficient. As regards the second part of the proposal, which is parental leave for foster families, it is important to recall that "host family" leave already exists. However, the conditions are such that these thematic holidays can only be used in connection with the placement of children and not in the care of children. We must admit that the limit is not very clear, and this has been repeated in our work. We are obviously far from adoption or parental leave as we know it. From that point on, the idea of aligning this leave has sprouted. As each political group had its own vision, it had been decided to set up a working group in order to reach a solution that would be acceptable to all of us. And to stress that beyond political considerations, we have managed to do so! For example, for adoption leave, the working group added one week of adoption leave per year, starting in 2019. In the case of multiple adoption, the number of weeks is increased by two. These additional weeks would be distributed among the parents, at their discretion. As far as foster families are concerned, it is important to recall that foster families are not entitled to parental leave as there is no blood link. These families, especially when they receive children for a long period of time, also devote a great deal of time to the education and care of these children. It is therefore clear that the working group then drew on Mrs Van Vaerenbergh's proposal, and that is how this text is proposed. It is also clear that our group will support this proposal. As far as the flexibilisation of thematic leave is concerned, it is the proposal which allows greater flexibility for all such leave. Therefore, depending on the worker's wishes or personal or family needs, the worker will be able, by mutual agreement with his employer, to decide to take his leave in a more flexible manner. All the subtlety lies in this last sentence: "by common accord with his employer and according to his needs". Therefore, whether it is parental leave, for medical assistance or palliative care, the worker will be able to use these thematic leave more flexibly, split or staggered. It's a very good thing, there's no doubt. All these measures are in the right direction. Our labour legislation must be modernised, it must become more flexible in the face of changes in our lifestyles. A logic surrounds these reforms and it is a deliberate choice that has led us to this methodology.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u97	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we, too, are naturally pleased that a solution has been found to some of the legislative proposals that have been blocked for several years in the Social Affairs Committee, which was not the best situation for colleagues there. The fact that this has taken three years is not due to the fact that there were basically problems with the content of the proposals, but to the fact that the proposals must also be able to be financed. I do not need to remind you that the federal government's budget is not yet in balance and that no magic calculator has yet been found to ensure this. We shouldn't make the hole bigger either. The files were finally unblocked by the fact that the government made available to Parliament a budget of EUR 10 million to help finance them. I would also like to mention two other excellences, one of which is working very hard for me here. Minister of Social Affairs Maggie De Block assumes the responsibility to include the surplus of the three proposals now dealt with in her budget. We can therefore express our thanks to Mr De Block. Furthermore, another proposal will be discussed later, which will be dealt with jointly under the responsibility of Mr Demir and for which part of the government's budget had to be included. However, like Mr Delizée, we are pleased that the files were finally unblocked, partly because two excellences have provided the necessary budgets. I am just going over the three proposals thematically. The 10th inclusion of parental leave was put forward some time ago by the social partners as part of an interprofessional agreement. Now that funding is complete, it provides extra flexibility for families with children. Being able to take parental leave per half day rather than per whole day offers a great deal of flexibility. The recording can be tailored to the period in which children are at school or at home. If one has to take a whole day on Wednesday, while the children are only half a day at home, one loses time and that is a bit of a pity. Now, by applying the agreement, parental leave can be better adapted to the needs. Secondly, our group had tabled a proposal to grant maternity rest to adoptive parents in full, allowing them to enjoy the same leave and rest. It was also our intention to speed up the implementation of the regulation, but in order to get the budgetary picture through, we have spread the path over a number of years. The spirit of the proposal is that adoptive parents go through at least an equally long period of time to acquire a child. They do not experience the physical delivery, but they also have to make the bond with the child. Moreover, there are long waiting lists and the fact that parents sometimes have to travel abroad in order to live up to the adoption. That takes time, and it is therefore welcome to be able to reconcile that period with maternity rest in the long term. The same applies to Mrs Van Vaerenbergh's proposal on foster care. Also for foster care, the majority has already taken a lot of steps forward in the past. Indeed, a sufficiently long period is also needed in which it is possible to establish a proper relationship with the foster child. That is why the measures we are taking in this respect are very welcome. Finally, there is Mr Spoormen's proposal. From the outset, we supported his proposal. It is true that parental leave was previously requested by one of the partners in a classic family. Such leave should be taken under a regime of a fifth or a part-time or full-time regime. However, for a few years now, many more families have broken up and a week-week scheme is being agreed for the children, which was even standard in juvenile law at certain times. It is, of course, a pity that parents have to take parental leave in weeks when the children are not there, when they do not even take care of their children. It is a pity, therefore, that leave was not adapted to such a situation. Mr Spooren's proposal responds to the needs of the new types of family situation with uncompromised families. One week parental leave can be taken and the other week does not have to. We have called for it together with Mr Spoorten and have ensured that there is no change in the way in which leave is taken. Only the modalities are extended with greater flexibility, while the way in which leave is taken does not change. It is important to underline this in order to avoid any confusion about it. For example, there is still a need for agreement between the employee and the employer on the precise inclusion of parental leave, i.e. on the working regime when the employee is working and when it is not working. If not, it would be impossible for the employer to comply with the statutory provisions on part-time work. That is a legitimate concern which needs to be addressed with the amendments in committee. Even today, the proposers have made it clear that, I repeat, there is still a need for agreement between the employer and the employee on the exact inclusion. In short, there is no change in the existing system, which will only be more flexible in terms of recording possibilities. This was clarified by an amendment which was adopted unanimously in committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is asking everyone to work longer, but we can only do that if our careers are bearable. We have to admit that everyone's life today is a lot more complex than it was 10, 20 or 30 years ago. A family is more often made up of two workers. There are many more newly composed families, with complicated mutual arrangements; children need to practice plenty of hobbies and parents play taxi on Wednesdays and Saturdays. So there is a lot of pressure on young families and young parents. With the proposed flexibility deal, we are responding to this demand from society. Serious efforts are being made to this end in a difficult budgetary context. The deal still covers two other proposals from our group, which are still on the way. Unfortunately, they were referred to the autumn by a second reading. Moreover, these proposals do not cost money and help to redeem the present package, as we can use the budget that has not been used up for the proposals before us, which we will be able to approve to everyone's satisfaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u98	These proposals for the introduction of thematic leave, parental leave and adoption and foster leave represent a significant improvement for those concerned. Our group will therefore support them fully and with conviction. We are a little surprised at the way in which the majority is now so movingly in agreement on these matters. Finally, the proposals were raised several times by members of the opposition and by members of the majority and even together by opposition and majority in all possible ways. Now they suddenly, apparently out of nowhere, get their batter. It was therefore a little uplifting spectacle last week, when the majority suddenly changed the agenda in a few hours, so there was hardly time to prepare. However, we are particularly pleased, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, with your agreement. It's something else. However, we had hoped that these obvious proposals could have been taken up a little more quickly. I would like to make a brief, substantive comment on the proposal on adoption and foster parents' leave. Our group regrets that this will not be completed until 2027. Colleagues from both the majority and opposition have already pointed out how important this is to establish a link with adoptive children.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u99	Mr President, I would like to reassure Mrs Jiroflée once again. Mrs Jiroflée, you know that the budgetary context is difficult, as my colleague has just mentioned. We start now with 6 weeks leave for all parents. Certain adoptive parents, who adopt a child over 8 years of age, now have nothing. Suddenly we give them 12 weeks. Foster care parents, currently on 6 days' leave, now receive 12 weeks. It is true that we initially said that 1 week's leave would be added every 2 years. However, we have adapted this. Together with Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, I have tabled an amendment aimed at including in the text the words 'by that date at the latest'. We were just talking about those dates in committee. Should the next government suddenly find the necessary resources, nothing will stop the government from acting more quickly. Maybe we can reach 17 weeks by 2020 or 2021. That's not impossible. We have amended the draft in such a way that 2027 is an external date, but that it can also be done earlier. I fully agree with you that it would be better tomorrow, so to speak, should that be possible. The amendment therefore makes it possible to introduce it more quickly. In other words, we do not have to wait until 2027.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u100	Mrs Lanjri, you have other intentions, such as budgets in balance and so on, but they are obviously not being implemented either. I am curious about this intention, but I would be surprised if it were to happen before 2027. However, it is a relatively limited budget. Like Mr Lachaert, you refer to the budgetary context, but it is about choices. If the majority really believes that the adoption leave, which is particularly important for the relationship with the children, should be removed, the relatively limited budgetary impact could best be taken into account. This was the only point I wanted to make briefly. In any case, we are going to approve this step forward with conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u101	Mrs Jiroflée, if you think this has been going on for too long, we should have done so already during the previous legislature. But that didn't happen then either. I am pleased that we, the majority and the opposition, may finally adopt this proposal. The increase from 0 to 12 weeks is already a huge advance for which we received many positive reactions. Of course, the work isn't done. We want a complete alignment with biological parents. As far as I am concerned, the non-organic parents should even receive an extra appreciation, or at least our respect because they want to take care of an adopted child. Those people deserve a plume and all our respect. Let us together ensure that, in addition to the 12 weeks they receive from 1 January, there are another 5 weeks as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u102	I fully agree with you. Our respect is at least equal. We all agree on the substance of the matter. However, you seem to forget over and over again that you were also present during the previous legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u103	Mr President, these are three texts, the adoption and application of which will allow for a better reconciliation between family and working life, as well as greater flexibility for the benefit of workers in the context of access to thematic holidays. We will support them, as we did in committee. They are part of a context, which must be emphasized, of increasingly frequent family recomposition, of workers who make up single-parent families with dependent children, for at least part of the time, and are part of an increasingly strong context of job exhaustion, a context in which workers need to do something else and breathe. The first text introduces a possibility of parental leave at 1/10th time, i.e. one day every two weeks or half a day per week, e.g. on Wednesday afternoon or even one hour per day with more flexibility. It seems obvious to us - the opinion of the CNT points out in particular - that this type of formula, which we promote, will allow a better distribution of the parental burden between mothers and fathers, an additional reason to support it. Moreover, it is found that the more short-term the ability to take parental leave, the more men use it. The second proposal I will mention concerns greater flexibility in access to thematic leave which, from now on, will no longer have to be taken on fixed days but perhaps over a period of two weeks - it is useful for shared guards - or even over a longer period when it is useful to group up parental leave days during school leave in order to also ensure a better functioning of parental authority, which, as we all know, generates a series of savings in terms of social assistance - school support or drop-out situations of any kind. Finally, and this is justice, adoption leave will be progressively the same as maternity or paternity leave. In this case, these texts have a limited budgetary cost. Colleagues pointed out how hard it was to put them to the vote as their examination began in 2015. Of a natural optimism, I will rejoice in their adoption. I would just like to point out to the majority that we are waiting for more "bottom-up" choices, to take up the term of a fellow Member of the Walloon Parliament, to bring about faster and deeper changes in social policy. The necessary budgets do not represent anything in relation to the economies decided linearly and brutally by the majority in the field of social security. I am thinking in particular of the index jump, which has been applied uncorrected to social recipients, or of the savings made by billions of euros in social security. We therefore hope that these texts prefigure choices that will go more towards solidarity and improving the quality and sustainability of employment. In the face of deteriorating working conditions, this seems to us a priority for the future. If this is not done under this legislature, it will be done under the next one, with environmentalists with responsibilities, of course. Thank you, Mr Cheron, for your presence and support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u104	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u105	We understand the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 313 on. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (313/7) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of the bill No. 313. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (313/7) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u106	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We understand the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 2240 on. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2240/10) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of the bill No. 2240. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2240/10) The bill has 6 articles. The bill has 6 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u107	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We understand the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 2464 on. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2464/8) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of the bill No. 2464. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2464/8) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in The title in French has been amended by the commission in the proposal for a law amending the law of 22 January 1985 amending the law of 22 January 1985 containing social provisions, as regards the flexibilisation of the taking of the thematic holidays". The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u108	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u109	The general discussion has resumed. The general discussion was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u110	Mrs Onkelinx, would you like to summarize your speech to the Minister just now?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u111	Mr President, I would like to take advantage of Mrs De Block's presence to repeat that we are extremely surprised that this issue came, in a sort of catmini in the Committee on Social Affairs, when it is an exception to a framework law which was subsequently adopted in the Committee on Justice. We have discussed this with colleagues from the opposition, but also the majority. And it probably seemed useful to us that this matter could be referred back to the Social Affairs Committee for second reading. It poses problems with the implementation of the European Regulation and the framework law. We are in the field of data protection. The European regulation contains extremely strict provisions on this subject – I will come back to it later – and grants powers to data protection authorities to protect citizens against misuse or unlawful use of the processing of personal data. The framework law organizes all this, with transparency, providing for a power of sanction, of complaint, etc. And you look like nothing, with a small project, you come as an exception to this framework law. So much so that the Council of State, which I mentioned earlier, says that "there are radically different approaches between the two texts", that "this reflects a lack of a global vision" and that "it raises serious doubts about respect for the principle of equality in the protection of the right to privacy". It's still a little crazy. Minister, how do you justify that? And as long as I am there, I will ask you the questions that we have not been able to address in the Committee on Social Affairs. The experts were not interviewed. We did not have the text of the framework law – a small problem. Minister, for example, what is the status of the two chambers of the Information Security Committee under the General Data Protection Regulations? Are they data protection officers? Are they supervisory authorities? Are they controllers? Depending on the case, the regulation, the protection, the responsibility of each other is different. Is there an exception? Will the Information Committee, in any way, take the place of the data protection authority? Has the European Commission been questioned? What is his opinion on your project? I am not sure that she was able to appreciate your position with regard to a very broad vote by the European Parliament. We demand clarity. This bill is a problem. First of all, I would like to receive very concrete answers to the questions I have just asked. Secondly, I think it is really useful – and the majority of the votes in committee have expressed themselves in this direction – with your agreement, to be able to explore this bill a little deeper in the Social Affairs Committee at a second reading, which could take place quickly. Moreover, it cannot be implemented before the end of this year. We could review the text in September in a forthcoming committee. You could offer us no problem to vote next September. We do not want to save time, but we are calling for a coherent text that is unattainable by the European Commission or the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u112	Mrs. Onkelinckx, I find it weird that you're raging like this. You say that you regret that the discussion took place in the Committee on Social Affairs without the specialists involved. Then you may be talking about your own group's colleagues, which I regret. I would never talk about my own group like that. As you know, the establishment of the information security committees was also discussed during the hearings on the framework law. Several questions have been asked as to what the information security committees are and how they are related to the existing or to be abolished sectoral committees. So nothing just happened around here somewhere. Nevertheless, your question as to whether these committees are in DPA is quite right, but it was put in the Social Affairs Committee when this draft law was discussed. The answer was no: the IVCs are not DPAs. We had the pleasure of discussing this in detail in committee, in particular on the draft and, above all, on the intention of the draft, in particular providing a legally secure framework for the data processor, the official, but also, above all, for the many care providers. Madam Minister, I also questioned you about the compatibility of this draft with the European Data Protection Regulation, the GDPR. Frankly, I had my doubts about that at the time, and I still have some of them, especially with regard to the responsive spirit and the letter of the regulation. You answered the questions in detail together with the KSZ's chief official. At that time, the leading official was also able to report that the European Commission indicated by e-mail that it was unable to confirm that this construction was compatible with the GDPR. Of course, this is not the most powerful element to increase the legal certainty of our healthcare providers. I have taken responsibility as a Member of Parliament and requested correspondence from the European Commission. The European Commission has serious reservations in this regard and gives a clear warning as to the normative nature of the information committees. The lead official was able to say in the discussion that the Commission is mistaken and uses a different interpretation. I am, of course, prepared to give you confidence in this and to approve the draft. However, let it be clear that, should the European Commission's investigation soon show that the scheme is effectively incompatible with the GDPR and that we are farther away from legal certainty for our healthcare providers than ever before, especially your leading official, Mr Robben, for whom you are politically responsible, will be able to draw his conclusions, and we will be able to draw with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u113	I did not expect to speak on this issue since, as some colleagues and I am thinking of Mrs Onkelinx had already mentioned, we have been analysing for many weeks a draft framework law aimed at enabling the implementation of the GDPR in general in Belgium. We studied this framework law at the Justice Committee meeting on 3 July. July 4 - the next day! – We discover that in the Social Affairs Committee, Mrs De Block presents a particular bill strictly concerning the field of social security. This news is very surprising because, according to this issue of the framework law, we had heard a wide range of actors from civil society, specialists and bodies, including the R Committee, the P Committee, but we had not heard from Mrs De Block. Later, we discussed with the various functional ministers related to the implementation of this draft framework law, Mr Jambon, for the Interior, Mr Geens, for Justice, Mr. De Backer, for Privacy and Mr. Vandeput for Defence. We did not hear Mrs De Block during these exchanges. Then, through the work done by our colleagues at the Social Affairs Committee meeting, we discover that Mrs De Block and the government have decided to dissociate the social security side from a law aimed at guaranteeing the privacy of our citizens. They do so by flouting it on the agenda of the Social Affairs Committee, where very talented colleagues are located but who are certainly not privacy specialists. Madam Minister, I think it was voluntary, perhaps not in your leadership, but in any case in that of an official in your administration. Indeed, on many occasions, Ms Gerkens can testify, the latter has made sure to hide the manoeuvres it imposes to counter this fundamental right to privacy. Minister, the opinion of the Council of State is murderous! Compared to your specifically dedicated bill, signed, written for the creation of a sectoral committee that had been removed at the end of 2017 by another bill of Mr. From Backer, he said that this sectoral committee had to make administrative decisions, authorize or refuse an exchange of data. Let us remember, ladies and gentlemen, that the data banks of social security are the Carrefour de la sécurité sociale (BCSS) and eHealth. These are the most sensitive personal data managed by the State since they concern the health status of Belgians. In this context, the Council of State goes further and says: "The status of the Information Security Committee is not clear and raises questions, both in the light of the Constitution and the General Data Protection Regulation." It's not nothing! It continues: "It is an independent administrative authority that can effectively allow different processing of personal data by public services and set rules for such processing." This body, in practice, may decide that one day the Social Security FPS will have to have two data banks dialogue: eHealth, which takes over the treatments, etc., and the BCSS on the other hand. This can be done because, at some point, this sectoral committee, which is not the Data Protection Authority, which is an ad hoc administrative body created within the framework of the administration of the Social Security SPF, will be able to issue authorisations. Of course, it will not be able to decide on sanctions, but it will still be able to authorize a whole series of data transfers and processing, which, de facto, gives it a real power: to allow the public authorities to confront, link and transfer a series of data. The question is essential! Why? Because the interest of the GDPR is that a body, a data protection authority - at home, ODA, which replaces the Privacy Commission - is the body to which any citizen who sees his or her privacy threatened can turn. And, as was explained to us in the discussion of the other bill, the framework bill, when it comes to the police, the State Security, the military intelligence services or any other public body in connection with security, there is a system, albeit complicated, that is bound up, where these various bodies, Committee R, Committee P but also ODA collaborate to try to ensure total protection. Here, we're in a completely different logic. An "appearing" institution is being set up, namely the Public Health Sector Committee, which will partly have the same powers as the Data Protection Authority, but this will be done in the utmost secrecy. Like the Secretary of State, Mr. From Backer, we confirmed last week, social security is the only sector where such a sectoral committee will appear. Why did we set up a sectoral committee in this sector alone, while we abolished them all by voting on the December 2017 law establishing the Data Protection Authority? My second question relates to the one that Mr. De Backer was laying down earlier. Have you mobilised the European Commission to ask whether this very specific provision - I would even say very special - is compatible with the GDPR, which, ladies and gentlemen, applies to us without transposition, since it is not a directive but a regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u114	Mr President, Minister, I would like to add two elements to my colleague, Benoit Hellings, who is following all these privacy issues with great efficiency and vigilance. I would like to make two points. The first is that in the Health Committee, we did not deal with this bill. We were not involved in this bill, and that was happening at a time when there were files in all the commissions. However, this bill also concerns the eHealth platform and the exchange of patients, their rights and the protection of their records in the exchange of data. I therefore find it curious that things have happened so abruptly in the Committee on Social Affairs, at a time when all parliamentarians were busy working on many projects at the same time. I come to my second point and the president, Gilles Foret, is present. We conducted hearings and worked on the Innovation and Research opinion committee on what we called big data in health. We completed our work with recommendations in late June and early July, referring to the General Data Protection and Privacy Regulations. We have, of course, added that it is essential, throughout the management of health data, to respect the requirements, the organs and the modalities laid down in the framework law that translates the GDPR. Apparently, no parliamentarian of the majority seemed to be aware and, at no time, there was any reference to the content of this bill, which establishes specific bodies and working arrangements for the protection of health data. This is a very unpleasant finding because health data must be particularly protected. In the Health Committee, we are constantly witnessing questions and discussions on anonymization, pseudonymization, how data exchange can take place, and doctors' concerns about whether data protection is adequate or not. I have also spoken in previous years to Mrs Onkelinx when she was Minister, and to Mrs De Block since she held this position, to discuss this mode of management monopolized by the head of the Carrefour Bank for Social Security, the eHealth platform and the ASBL Smals which manages all exchanges, the IT arrangements for social security administrations and the Sectoral Committee for Privacy. Each time, we find ourselves with provisions from the minds of a few who deviate from the regulatory requirements for conflict of interest and data protection. In my view, Mrs Onkelinx's proposal to submit a request for second reading on Thursday before the vote seems entirely justified, both from the point of view of the members of the opposition and of the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u115	Mr President, Madam Minister, I am sorry, but I had to go to the Committee on External Relations. As I said in committee, although I am going to speak a little differently here, I still do not understand the reason for the peculiarity of this safety committee. Indeed, the approach differs from that found in other files. A specific committee has been set up for health and social security data. In committee, you answered me in part. Then I had to go to another meeting. The least we can say is that the answers provided never allowed us to touch on the substance. If I see even less clearly in this case, it is because, for some time, I have been in doubt. In our country, the choice of a certain type of encryption of health data is such that they are not completely anonymized, as they should be. Therefore, it is possible to reconstruct significantly more complete data, by means of fragments of the patient's identity – finally unmasked. This is a first problem. I will mention a second problem which adds doubts: the sale in Belgium of data to the company IMS Health whose headquarters are based in New York. These data sales took place with compensation. This concerned health data from Belgian patients. This is disturbing and totally unacceptable. Minister, in your pact for the future with the pharmaceutical sector, you have provided in a small paragraph of 3 lines that you could look at how the industry will have access to the so-called anonymous data. However, I have just explained that the data are not completely anonymized about the use of drugs and health care. There are therefore serious questions about how some people would like to use or already use patient data. The way in which you set up this well-known special safety committee – not in the same way as the other bodies – in the context of the application of the European directive on data preservation and protection, and even more so of patients, raises the question. Health data are crucial. It's a very technical subject. The way in which this was dealt with in committee has been speeded up and we have only received the technical dossiers at the last minute. The answers given by your expert – and little by you – have tended to drown the fish without really dealing with the central issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u116	As regards the relationship between the framework law and the present text, the framework law is much wider. The Information Security Committee should be established in order to continue to be able to share data in social security and in public health in a flexible, safe and legally secure manner. There should be a body that determines the security conditions under which personal data may be shared. Nor should we forget the complexity of the whole and the technicality. More than 100 000 actors are active in the social sector and in the health sector, each of them having to meet the conditions. The question was whether the draft law is contrary to the framework law. That is not the case. On the contrary, it has been discussed in cooperation with colleague Philippe De Backer. In view of the nature of the matter, it was necessary to deal with it in the Committee on Social Affairs. It was asked whether the draft law was discussed with the European Commission. The answer is yes. It was definitely discussed. The Committee was set up in detail and the importance of the normative value of the debate. Mr Dedecker, you refer to some of the e-mails you have requested and for which we have given permission to deliver them to you. However, there were further e-mails following our reply to the European Commission's questions. It had initially expressed reservations about the normative nature of the deliberations, based on the finding that such an independent body with normative powers was not explicitly included in the GDPR. However, we wanted to safeguard the situation in our country, where for many years there has been a reliable system for the exchange of data both in the social sector and in the health sector. We referred to the legal bases in recitals 6.2 and 9.4 of the GDPR and asked the European Commission which articles of the draft law would still be contrary to the GDPR. The European Commission has not answered this question, which you can also see in the e-mails you have read. There were also questions from Mrs Onkelinx. Mrs Onkelinx, in our view, there is no problem with the framework law. The Information Security Committee cannot be considered responsible for processing. It only checks whether the conditions of limitation, purpose, proportionality and security laid down in the GDPR are met in order to enable the institutions to carry out their legal tasks. In no case shall the Committee set the objective of the processing of personal data or the means to be used in this context. The controllers remain responsible for the practical implementation of data exchange, in accordance with the GDPR principle. Of course, the deliberations do not exempt those responsible for the treatment concerned from other provisions of the Regulations. Mrs Fonck, we have been exchanging data on people's health for more than 25 years and we have never encountered any problems. The example you gave relates to a private initiative and we directly indicated that it was not tolerable. This proves that our system is working. Moreover, the eHealth platform never has access to personal health data. Each data exchange is encrypted end to end. Mrs Gerkens, I do not make the agenda of the committees. In my view, it was logical to deal with it in the Committee on Social Affairs. The calendars are known a week in advance. It is up to you to consult your calendar. If there was a problem, it had to be said at that time. And I didn't get any comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u117	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u118	There is no impact on public health. The current system works with the Sectoral Committee. I just maintain a system that works. Of course, it was difficult to change everything, especially since many actors were involved. Mr Hellings, with this law, we will continue the practice. I don't want to take the risk of health data being released. We have to protect them. The establishment of the Information Security Committee is legally based on Articles 6(2) and 9(4) of the GDPR. In this way, the committee will be able to make normative decisions. The law guarantees, on the one hand, the legal certainty of the parties concerned and, on the other hand, sufficient protection of personal and health data. Deliberation may be challenged by the applicable remedies, if it conflicts with higher legal standards such as the GDPR. The protocol system provided for in the framework law does not apply in a network of more than 100,000 actors exchanging more than one billion data per year. That is why we have made this decision. There's been a little discussion in the committee. We said there that respect is needed. It is necessary to assess whether the data sharing is in accordance with the principle of proportionality and whether it is safe and to provide legal certainty for the data sharing participants. I am convinced that an arrangement with two rooms with a special room for the treatment of that particular information is the best way to go. More than 100 000 actors are involved in the exchange of more than 1 billion data. The continuity of the system had to be ensured and there had to be patient safety and legal certainty. The result was the proposed formula, which was found for this in consultation with the competent State Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u119	Has the Privacy Commission expressed its views on the matter? Did she make any criticisms?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u120	I can give you the opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u121	Has the project been adapted? As you know, this Commission has been very critical of the framework law and it has been completely adapted accordingly. However, in your draft article 2, you make some kind of exception to the framework law. But I do not know if in the follow-up to your law you have incorporated the adaptations to the framework law for your special law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u122	As I said, the work was done simultaneously with the Secretary of State. All reports received resulted in adjustments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u123	The adjustments made following the report of the Committee on Privacy Protection took place when the draft was already voted on in the Committee on Social Affairs. So you couldn't have made any adjustments. I am not going to do the work that should be done in committee here. I think, of course, like you, that protecting medical data is worth protecting. But you worked without consistency with the basic text. You cause uncertainty among the actors. It is not known who is ultimately responsible for what in the light of the principles of the general regulation. Maybe it's a good text, I don't know. It should have been confronted with the opinion of the experts, given an answer to the Council of State on the issue of coherence and reconciled the principles on which we almost agreed in the Committee on Justice. That is why my group will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u124	The Privacy Commission has given a positive opinion on our bill. Changes were needed in the framework law, but in the meantime we had the Commission's opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u125	Minister, I cannot let you say that. The Privacy Commission, along the lines of the Council of State, expressed very different views from those of the federal government. You have to have the honesty to recognize him.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u126	Those comments concerned the inspection services and the data warehouse. We have therefore made these adjustments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u127	Minister, the discussion we have here demonstrates the great interest we would have had in hearing from you with your colleagues from Justice, the Interior, Privacy and Defence at the same time. Indeed, you are applying a method that is fundamentally different from that which your colleagues are applying to implement this European Privacy Regulation. If we had heard you in the Justice Committee with your colleagues, this difference in treatment would have come to light as illegitimate. Because she's illegitimate. The Data Protection Authority works, on a case-by-case basis, with a series of intelligence or police agencies. Here, it's the other way around. You create an umbrella authority that works in place of the Data Protection Authority. That's what we're after you. In your reply to Mr Dedecker, you say that the European Commission replied that the creation of this authority appears to be in line with the GDPR. I would have liked to know when the Commission replied to you. At what time of year? What month? Could we, in full transparency for the parliamentary debate, receive a copy of this exchange between your Chief of Staff and the European Commission, in which the Commission answers in writing that this body is not contrary to the spirit and letter of the GDPR?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u128	As I have already said, the committee asked us whether we agreed that mail traffic on the subject between us and the European Commission could be delivered to Mr Dedecker. If it can be given to Mr Dedecker, it is a public document. It can, of course, be delivered to Mr Hellings. That's not a problem; for me, the whole Chamber can have it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u129	We can distribute these documents. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u130	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3185/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3185/7) The title was amended by the Commission in draft law establishing the Information Security Committee and amending several laws on the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of 27 April 2016 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC." The title has been amended by the committee in draft law establishing the Information Security Committee and amending various laws concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC". The draft law has 99 articles. The bill has 99 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u131	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u132	Mr President, on Thursday's final vote, Mrs Onkelinx and I find it interesting to have a second reading. Therefore, since this request was made, could it not be submitted to the House on Thursday before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u133	According to the Rules of Procedure, it is possible to submit a request for second reading before the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we move on to item 4 of our agenda. Some colleagues have proposed to join the discussion on this point with item 12 because it is the same speakers who want to speak on item 4 in item 12. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u134	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: David Clarinval, Philippe Goffin, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Stéphanie Thoron, Olivier Chastel, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Isabelle Galant.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u135	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mrs Lanjri and Mrs Fonck, refer to their written report. I give the floor to Mr Raskin.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u136	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft by Mrs Demir is actually part of a decision taken at the budgetary conclave at the end of March. The Council of Ministers then agreed to the distribution of the €85 million poverty envelope from the summer agreement. In the context of the fight against poverty in people with disabilities, the decision was taken to increase the IVT or income replacement allowance for persons of category C. These are specifically people who form a household and/or single people with a family burden. This is a specific vulnerable target group that usually runs the risk of living well below the poverty line. In order to implement the decision taken at the time by the Council of Ministers, we must today amend the law of 27 February 1987. First of all, the three categories of the IVT which are currently linked in percentage terms must be separated from each other. Secondly, the basic amounts for these three categories should be subject to change by category. Thirdly, this is then indexed through the draft law with an increase of EUR 40 per month. It is important to note that it is the third time that income replacement is increasing during this legislature. We got a first increase in September 2015, then by 2 %. The second increase of 2.9 % came in September 2017. Today, there is again an important statement by our Secretary of State, although specific to the persons in category C. Compared to the previous government, the Secretary of State is taking a significant step. In the past, a one-off increase of 2% was achieved, in September 2013. I would also like to emphasise, in my view, that this is also part of a wider package of measures taken in the summer agreement for the benefit of people with disabilities. A budget of EUR 12.5 million was made available to increase the five categories of integration for people with disabilities. Resources were also provided for the adjustment of the income limits for the partner of a person with disabilities. Thus the effect of the price for love is somewhat tempered. This was also the bridge to the legislative proposal of the MR colleagues. With regard to Mrs Demir's draft, this is part of a package of measures that benefit people with disabilities and the fight against poverty. That looks great on the Secretary of State and, by extension, on the government. I would like to refer to the legislative proposal of the colleagues of the MR. Of course, we also fully support this proposal, as I have already made clear in committee. This is way ahead of us. For a long time, people with disabilities have been asking for action against what is called the price of love. It's about negative, almost perverse effects, because it punishes the person with disabilities who wants to live with a partner. However, people with disabilities often need people to live with, to get some support and assistance. In addition, many partners of people with disabilities have doubts about working, given their negative impact on the income of the disabled partner. It cannot be the intention of partners of disabled people not to work because they do not want to see their household income significantly increase. At least work has to pay. Through the proposal of the MR colleagues, this unemployment trap is eliminated and the price of love is downsized. Unfortunately, a complete abolition is not feasible for the time being, but I would like to stress that our group is very satisfied with the proposal that, within the budgetary constraints, is, in any case, another important step in the right direction. Just as my colleagues did in the previous proposals and drafts, I would like to thank the members of the majority and of the opposition who helped to support the story. In particular, within the majority, we have been able to agree to take important steps together, in consultation with our committee and the secretary of state's cabinet, with regard to the income of persons with disabilities. That is why we fully support both the draft and the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u137	Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group will support both texts. It goes without saying that we support the idea of raising the income replacement allowance (ARR), even if it is only an increase in the amount for certain categories. It's a little bit of a move. It goes without saying that other persons with disabilities also have needs, while being aware that this has a budgetary impact. With regard to the question of raising all poverty line allowances, we are still far from the point of view of the opening of the legislature. My main remark made in committee – and from the beginning the legislature! – it is not to have a global view of this 1987 law. Since 2014, I have been advocating for a reflection beyond the majority-opposition divide to review an obsolete law. It no longer meets the expectations and needs of people with disabilities. It is a law a thousand times reshaped by various decrees. The National Higher Council of Persons with Disabilities said the same thing in its opinions. We'd need an overall vision. This council says they are being asked for an opinion on small changes, but it would really like the government to enter into a real dialogue. We understand that this would not be the case in this Parliament. Beyond the rise of the RRA and the fight against poverty for a number of people with disabilities, other challenges exist, such as strengthening integration and the right to integration for all. This is one of the major demands of the sector, but it must be modulated according to revenue. There is a need for inclusive policies that take into account the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. There is also a need for administrative simplification. Madam Secretary of State, you had the good idea of organizing a visit by the Directorate-General for People with Disabilities last March. Management faces a lot of computer, telephone and personnel problems. When we visit this administration, we realize that it must implement extremely complex and taunting legislation. For people with disabilities who already have difficulties at the beginning, it is the combatant's journey to understand, know his rights and to carry out the steps, even if they can get help. The main issue, therefore, is simplification and, unfortunately, we are not likely to achieve this objective until the end of this Parliament, which I regret a little. With regard to the fight against poverty, the Court of Auditors indicated that, in the end, the government had saved EUR 40 million. The measure proposed today will apply on 1 July rather than 1 January. Furthermore, it is not guaranteed that the amount can be used for the target group for which it was intended. In any case, that is not the case at the time I speak to you. I would like to dwell for a moment on the question of the fight against poverty of this target group, but also in general. It is known that more than 40 per cent of people with disabilities live below the poverty line, while poverty affects, on average, 15 per cent of the population as a whole. It is therefore certain that a comprehensive vision is needed in this area. However, people with disabilities also face other measures such as consumer tax, VAT, increased health care costs, etc. That is why we really need a comprehensive view of the subject. Finally, the budget was also discussed. There is no doubt that an additional budget is not allocated to this issue. We have been confirmed in committee that the amount concerned by the first measure relating to the RRA is taken from the welfare envelope. Initially, one might have thought that there would be an additional investment from the government, but that will not be the case, and the necessary funds will be taken from the above envelope. However, on the whole, I am not negative. We will support this measure because it is a step in the right direction, even if others still need to be taken. We are ready to discuss it. This is how I get at the price of the love that all parties are asking for. It's another step that's taken. If I have noted correctly, according to the administration's estimates, 3,555 people will benefit from this measure. I don't know how many couples there are, but there are about 150,000 beneficiaries of the integration allowance. You have to see how many couples there are among them. In any case, it is also a step in the right direction. I recall that initially, the MR proposed to totally eliminate the price of love. We know that at a cost, but we will support it because it will bring more to the people concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u138	Minister, first of all, I will comment on the text tabled by the government. I fully agree with what my colleague Raskin has said. This is a good step forward in the area of increasing allowances for persons with disabilities. This is part of a package of measures tabled on Parliament's table which are in favour of the fight against poverty, in particular that of people with disabilities. In this package, we also find what we usually call the price of love. It should be noted that in order to cover the costs of disability, the disabled person receives an integration allowance, the amount of which depends on his degree of autonomy. This allowance is granted because of the loss of autonomy caused by disability. This allowance is therefore inherent in the disability and its nature. However, the current legislation provides that the amount of this allowance is reduced on the basis of the spouse's income. This was called the price of love, since there was a reduction in the allowance, not because of the person's situation but because of his choice of life. So many of us deplored this injustice for people with disabilities. At the MR, we had long prepared a proposal, but there were proposals on the benches of other groups. The defence of persons with disabilities has also long called for the abolition of the price of love. Indeed, it must be noted that in some cases some persons with disabilities remained isolated simply for fear of losing their allowance. This fact can be regretted because it can have an impact on their self-esteem as they are forced to live at the expense of the person with whom they share their lives. In addition, the integration allowance allows for the costs of a disability that continues to exist, regardless of the situation of the family. Everyone has the right to love without discrimination. Equal opportunity is also that. Our request to include our bill as a priority in the work of the Social Affairs Committee was first of all aimed at totally abolishing the price of love, as Mr Delizée pointed out. But, as he also pointed out, the budget allocated to us did not allow for complete abolition. So we worked in good agreement with the Secretary of State and the MR was able to release $2.5 million. The minister has also given us several million dollars. In this way, we have obtained a fairly large budget that will reduce the price of love. As my colleagues have pointed out, there are a lot of people involved. We are going to immunize part of the partner's income, from an immunization from 22,450 euros to 39,287 euros indexed. This represents an increase of 75 per cent. According to the administration, 3,150 people are affected by the increase in their integration allowance. The Secretary of State spoke of an average of 175 euros per month that will receive about 1,764 citizens. In addition, 1,391 people who so far could not receive an allowance will now receive one. They also have new opportunities. Together with Mr Delizée, we debated in committee when this decision could be taken. I had committed myself to reply to him in plenary session. I therefore confirm that the amount of the integration allowance will be automatically revised retroactively to July 1st of this year – so for August 1st. However, I have to bring a little nuance. The file of beneficiaries of a reduced allowance due to too high income of their partner will be revised, while the amount of their integration allowance will be recalculated upwards from 1 July. The DG has included this information in the system. The dossier of those who are already beneficiaries of an integration allowance is also scheduled to be revised from 1 July. On the other hand, it is clear that those who had been refused because they did not come under the conditions will have to reintroduce a file. This means that they will have to take a step. In this respect, I would like to extend the pole to the minister. If this is technically possible, it seems to me desirable that those concerned should obtain information from the administration to inform them that they should reintroduce a file. I think that makes sense. Mr President, in conclusion, it was felt in committee that this text was minimalist. For my part, on the contrary, I consider it a major step forward. Indeed, the price of love is a real obstacle to the emancipation of people with disabilities. That is a matter of concern to us. We are therefore pleased to be able to remedy this. I would like officially to thank, of course, the colleagues of the majority, but also those of the opposition who voted in favour of this text. I should particularly like to thank the minister, who has provided us with a welcome supplementary budget, and Mr Raskin, who has defended this text. This, Mr President, in summary, is the intervention that we intended to develop.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u139	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, both in Parliament and in the government, we have always advocated a step-by-step increase in benefits up to the poverty threshold. During this legislature, benefits were raised several times, including through the use of the welfare envelope. I am thinking, for example, of living wages, the income guarantee for older people, the minimum pension, the minimum unemployment benefit and the integration allowance. This draft law increases the income replacement allowance for persons with disabilities in category C by EUR 40 per month for disabled persons who form a household or single persons with a family burden. For a disabled person who is a household, this means 896 euros per month instead of 856 euros. As people with disabilities are more vulnerable, we are very satisfied with this increase. As income replacement benefits can now be set separately for each of the three categories, it is possible to provide targeted support to certain categories with a higher risk of poverty. The risk of poverty is greatest among people with disabilities, especially those with family problems. We therefore understand that it was decided to raise the benefits for this group in advance. However, we would like to ask that the other two categories should not be overlooked. Many disabled people are at great risk of poverty. It is therefore important, Madam Secretary of State, to continue to work towards raising these benefits above the poverty line. This must, of course, be done gradually. We understand that resources are not unlimited and choices have to be made. That is why it is a pity that we will only spend EUR 40 million of the total budget of EUR 80 million this year. In the summer agreement a budget of €80 million was agreed, but due to delays in the choices made, this measure did not enter into force until half this year, leaving a budget of €40 million for 2018. I have insisted on this in committee, Madam Secretary of State, and I will do so now. After all, I hope that you will still spend that EUR 40 million because in the fight against poverty every kind of commitment and support is important. I made the proposal to support poverty projects for which one-off funds can be used. Other slopes are also good, as long as we don't lose money. After all, any euro that we can spend on combating poverty must also be used effectively. Leaving aside a sum of EUR 40 million would be a real shame. Mr President, since we are dealing with both legislative proposals together, I would also like to comment on Mr Clarinval's proposal. It is a proposal that I have been very pleased to sign because we now see that people with disabilities lose part of their benefit and integration when they marry or move in together. That's what we call the price of love. They have to pay a price because they love someone. That is, of course, absurd. We ourselves introduced various measures for people with disabilities in an earlier resolution. One of the measures I proposed was to abolish the price of love. This legislative proposal does not yet completely abolish the price of love, but we are raising the limits of the amounts exempted for the calculation of integration. In particular, a disabled person is currently exempt for the first instalment of EUR 16 354 plus half of that amount. This means, in concrete terms, that the exemption is now increased by 75%. It goes from EUR 22 450 to EUR 39 287, which is an increase of 75%. We see a huge number of steps being taken, which is positive. We hope that by next steps we will be able to achieve the complete abolition of the price of love as soon as possible. The aim of integration is to contribute to the cost of the handicap. Those costs remain. Whether someone lives together or not, the costs don't change. It is therefore a pity that too many people with disabilities are still being punished for marrying or moving in together. It is therefore important that people with disabilities who already live together should also be informed of the new scheme. Madam Secretary of State, the income line is being seriously increased. That is a positive thing. However, we must also ensure that we now let those who have been rejected know that they can make a new application. They can now make a new application for the calculation of their integration meeting, even though, for example, they were rejected a year ago. I therefore believe that there should be a proper flow of information on the new measure. In addition, in the context of the automatic allocation of rights, I think it is right that DG HAN should send a message to all those who, for example, have received an application for integration at least in the last year, when they were unable to deal with it because they were just above the border, that they could submit a new application because the border amounts have now been raised. For example, we limit the risk that people who are entitled to an increased benefit will not take advantage of it because, for example, they were refused six months ago and do not know that anything has changed now. So, Mrs Demir, I would ask you to take measures to first of all inform people globally and, secondly, to register proactively at least those who have been rejected in the last year. You must not wait for them to act themselves. I believe that most of them will not stand up for a new application. Those who were rejected last month will not be thinking of submitting a new application now. That is therefore a special point of interest which I would like to give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u140	Mr President, I would briefly like to comment on the proposal which aims to further remove the so-called prize of love for the integration of people with disabilities. This is, of course, another step in a very good direction, a step forward. I am very much in agreement with what Mr Delizée has said, and we will therefore wholeheartedly support this, like the PS Group. Mrs Demir, you will remember our visit to the services. On that occasion and also in the annual report of the federal ombudsmen, we noticed that the problems faced by disabled people in this country are far greater than this price of love. We think there's still a lot of work to be done. As far as the legal aspect is concerned, the price of love is only one obstacle. A few weeks ago, Mr Kitir tabled a written question on the problem of the removal of the integration dimension for people with disabilities working for a period of time. If, after that work, they become invalid or unemployed and have to have the social security rights they built on the basis of their employment benefits placed at the top of the IVT, they lose their integration meeting because of the verylow amount of exemption for replacement income. I myself have already asked a number of written questions on a number of similar issues. I would like to ask Mrs Demir, after the recess, to take a systematic look at all the problems, both in terms of services and in terms of the legal aspects. As I said, at least we will vote for this proposal with conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u141	Mr. Speaker, we are indeed facing a bill and a bill that aim to improve allowances for persons with disabilities, both in the "income replacement" and "integration" components. We can only support these two texts, while regretting that they are, in a way, limited. We regret it all the more because, in the October 2014 government agreement, there was a commitment to raise the various allocations to the poverty line and that is not the case or not yet. The gap is decreasing, but it is not yet the case. These are, of course, budgetary choices that do not fall solely on the Secretary of State for Disability Matters; this concerns the entire government. However, it must be noted that the government has not chosen to raise all the allowances, in particular the allowances for disabled persons, to the minimum level of this poverty risk line. We are in line with a step forward in the small steps, which lacks a more comprehensive approach, focusing on a final objective, on the meaning of these allowances, their status and their integration into a comprehensive vision of policies enabling social participation, integration and inclusion of these people. We must remember that we have indeed ratified, adopted and incorporated into our national obligations compliance with the United Nations Convention on Inclusion. Inclusion requires that, indeed, people with disabilities be able to participate in the life of our society in the same way as other citizens. A serious commitment, indeed, since these are measures that affect all aspects of our social, daily, cultural, professional life and, of course, access to decent incomes. With regard to the income replacement allowance, the increase for persons receiving category C allowances, it was indeed important to increase it since, today, their income was generally 70 per cent of the poverty line. But you increase it from 1 July and not from 1 January as should have been the case and no retroactive effect is foreseen in this respect. The reason you mentioned about the impossibility of applying the retroactive effect is the inability of the administration of DG People with Disabilities to review the various files and identify who is entitled to them, for what amounts, for how many months, etc. It's catastrophic to have these excuses as the only arguments. This DG People with Disabilities has been dysfunctional for several years: it is unable to respond correctly to telephone calls and process files properly. You have made a whole series of arrangements, you have allowed additional staff to be hired, and you are still committed to recruiting more staff. But I must admit that the situation remains unacceptable for people with disabilities who are entitled to benefits and who would be entitled to this increase and to this catch-up since 1 January. The political power, the government, tells them that this situation is due to too many restrictions in the staff of the DG People with Disabilities, reduced by 20% instead of the 10 programmed in the rationalization of the public service. In addition, it has been experiencing problems of internal governance for many years. These are the reasons why beneficiaries do not receive their adjusted and increased income replacement allowance since 1 January. There is a risk of the same problem for people receiving integration allowances. Mr Clarinval, it is true that in committee, I asked you about the wording of the section of your bill notifying that there will be retroactive effect and adjustment of the integration allowances for people who have a new file or at the time of automatic updating of their file. My question was whether people whose files will only be re-evaluated in three years' time, will have to wait three years to have access to the correction of the "price of love" as proposed in your bill. It's obviously important. I would like to point out this and ask questions about it because it is going to require work on the part of the officials of the Directorate-General for People with Disabilities, if we adopt the retroactive effect, which I hope. I hope that it will be applicable from 1 August for all persons who today have an integration allowance and who either live in a couple or are isolated but with a dependent family. I would like to be sure that this retroactive effect will be carried out automatically for all people from July or August, for regularisation since 1 July, and to ensure that all these people will really see their case dealt with immediately. I also agree with the proposal to proactively warn people who had been refused on the basis of the old criteria and who will now be able to recover this right to the integration allowance. Again, this will require the administration to conduct a search, to identify the files concerned. I would like to obtain the commitment that can be made. I come more specifically to the content of this bill, which we will also support, even if it is only a step and we are not yet achieving the automaticity and full individualization of the integration allocation. I would like to take this opportunity to recall that the integration allowance must be given to a person regardless of his or her own income (occupational income, replacement income, other income such as disability or unemployment). Such income must not be taken into account in order to benefit from the integration allowance. The same applies to the incomes of the persons with whom they live and who must also not be taken into account. Indeed, the integration allowance is money that is given to a person who, in a given situation, suffers from a disability. This handicap imposes additional costs on him to live like any person who is in the same situation, but without disability. The commitment of the integration allowance is to enable it to live in the same way as its peers without disabilities, regardless of income. I really insist that by the end of the legislature, this "price of love" be completely abolished. It is a budgetary choice that may need to be made, but the government has the opportunity to find the necessary revenue to meet this commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u142	Mr President, I would like to reply to Mrs Gerkens' question: there is indeed a retroactive effect on all the cases that are under way. The persons who today meet the conditions for receiving an increase in their allowance will receive it on the basis of a re-evaluation with retroactive effect from 1 July. On the other hand, it is true that those who have been refused in the past must submit a new application. I had asked the Secretary of State if it was possible to detect these people and contact them. This is a technical question which I do not know the answer to.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u143	Mr President, I would like to take advantage of the presence of the Secretary of State. These persons will have this right from 1 July, at the end of the re-evaluation of their file. The wording of the clause in the bill is ambiguous, and in my opinion, your answer, Mr.Clarinval, does not provide the clarification that I miss. Will all files be re-evaluated this summer to grant this advance on the "price of love" to all those who benefit from it, or will there be, as of July 2018, every re-evaluation of a person's file, adaptation of his allocation, without taking into account the "price of love"? It's not the same thing. It is from July, for some people, it will be done in summer 2018, while for others, it may be done in January 2019 or in January 2020, at the time of the automatic multi-year re-evaluation of their file. That is my question. I believe that fairness means that this summer there will be a re-evaluation of all the files so that all those who benefit from these allowances will be entitled to this stage of improvement of the integration allowance reducing the influence of the "price of love".
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u144	Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour of these two texts. Having said that, I would like to make a few quick comments. Madam Secretary of State, a very specific question has not been raised here or in committee. With regard to the first part of the increase in the amount of the income replacement allowance, only for persons with disabilities whose incomes were furthest from the poverty line, it is recognized that the version presented by the Government is characterized by its minimalism. Indeed, it leaves aside certain categories of persons with disabilities who, however, receive particularly low incomes. In addition, while the government announced a year ago that it was going to increase the amount of the income replacement allowance, we now realize that it will not be available to those affected. I would add that you had the budget on 1 January this year. I do not know what will happen to the budget which, in principle, was dedicated to the entry into force of the measure on 1 January. After the Committee's announcements on budgetary reality in general and cross-cuttingly, I fear that the government will put this part of the budget into its Consolidated Revenue Fund. This would mean that this amount would be permanently lost to the beneficiaries. Let us remember that, from their point of view, they are not peanuts. In fact, during this year, the increase will average an amount of 240 euros. If they had received the allowance for the full year, the amount would have been EUR 480. This is therefore a doubly missed opportunity. First of all, despite your great publicity effects, the date of entry into force is delayed by six months; and I find this frankly unacceptable. Secondly, only certain persons with disabilities will be affected. Then, when it comes to the price of love, again, you have retreated – as always in the case of people with disabilities – from the original version. Some perverse aspects of the price of love are well corrected, but not the principle in itself. The principle must be that a person who cohabits with a partner always has a disability. This allowance is obviously directly related to his disability. It is not acceptable to punish people financially. You are not going to finish the process, so further steps will be needed. The employment traps and the penalisation of disabled people who work remain an injustice. It's not because we're working that, suddenly, we're no longer disabled. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to make sure that these people will not be caught because of the tax component. Does this partial correction of the price of love have implications for people in the upper tax bracket? I would like you to commit on behalf of the government that this will not happen. This has been experienced in other government files, for example in the area of pensions. Here, it would be taking with one hand what you give with the other. Has this component been properly analysed? Finally, I insist that the people concerned should be able to benefit from rapid and simple communication. I suggest that this goes through the FPS People with Disabilities. People who call to find out about this device may not receive an answer. We have deplored enough what is happening, you know what I'm referring to. Second, we ask you to work with field associations, which generally have a facilitated direct grip and which are often more effective – it must be acknowledged – than the FPS People with Disabilities. Indeed, even if I recognize the value of the latter's work, it is no longer in a position to guarantee a quality service as we would be entitled to expect, mainly because of the human resources and this famous software which is a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u145	Mr President, on my own behalf, and I think I can do that on behalf of the government, I would like to thank the entire House for its broad support for this draft law. It suggests that more needs to be done for this target group. In general, I have heard here and there the question of what the Secretary of State's vision is and what direction I want to go. I went to the United Nations on behalf of the federal government a month ago. I put forward the general view that I set out in Parliament a year ago. This is because all the measures I am taking or trying to take for this target group are aimed at social emancipation and autonomy. I am thinking, for example, of the integration meeting, for which the budget is EUR 12 million, which we will increase for all categories. I do so with a view to living autonomously and independently. I am also raising disability benefits for the purpose of independent living. So all the measures I can take at federal level, you know that this is a shared competence and that many matters are the responsibility of the Länder; apart from the benefits, the integration meetings and the parking cards, which are federal matters, the rest is regionalised, I take the remainder in view of inclusion and therefore in order to be autonomous and independent. For example, I have now put a proposal on the government table in the context of the budgetary negotiations. Mrs Fonck, I hope that I will find a budget for my proposal. After all, this proposal also costs money. It's about the price of labor. For example, there are people with disabilities who receive benefits but also want to work for two days without losing their benefit immediately. Of course, it costs money. We have calculated this and it would be an additional budget of EUR 20 million. I have put on the table a proposal on this subject. I hope it will be approved. This proposal also aims at inclusion and independent living. Comments were made on the increase in category C. Just so I'm clear, if I was walking around... [[Mr. Flahaux coughs fiercely.]] Are you okay, my best friend? Would you like some water? [[Mr Flahaux is leaving the hemisphere.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u146	Please continue with your speech, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u147	Mr President, I am a little concerned about Mr Flahaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u148	We are now simply Mr Flahaux's. You haven't, but we have.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u149	With regard to disability benefits and the choice of category C, I have always said very clearly that if it were up to me alone, I would increase the benefits of the most vulnerable in our society, and that is the disabled, to the European poverty line. In politics, however, a compromise must always be sought. We have therefore had to make a choice and decided that it would become category C, being persons with a family burden. Of course, we have already increased the benefits of the other categories in the past. Now this category has been specifically chosen, and this has to do with how far those involved have been removed from the poverty risk threshold. This was done on the basis of the interfederal poverty barometer. A couple with two children has an income of 67% compared to the poverty risk threshold, while a single person in category B has an income of 75% compared to the poverty risk threshold. So you notice that category C is the furthest away from the risk of poverty threshold. For this reason, we have opted for a category C catch-up movement with an increase in benefits. A lot of questions have been asked about IT, the integration meeting, and people who have been given a negative decision in the past. This integration meeting is, moreover, unburdened, for the sake of clarity. Those who were previously given a negative decision are now eligible. The question is what will happen to those people. I have also addressed these concerns together with my cabinet and DG HAN. Communication will be proactive through organisations, civil society, which already carry out many other formalities for this target group. We will proactively communicate from DG HAN through organisations and civil society to point out to these people that, despite a negative decision in the past, they may indeed be eligible by a legislative amendment. A question was asked about the delays in the service, the computer system and the service. We all share that concern. A few months ago, I set out in committee what decisions I have taken since I took office. These decisions are not enough. That is why we have drawn up an action plan from the cabinet itself, which is now in operation at DG HAN for more than a month. At the same time, we note that some 500 files have already been closed. So there's going to be a catch-up movement. I would also like to address the question of several colleagues, who want to have a general overview in September of the delays, the handling of telephone calls and the adjustments to various dossiers. At the moment, thanks to operational interventions, I see a good improvement. The trade unions, in particular the ACOD, were asked to recruit additional staff. You should know that too much was saved on staff at DG HAN. The general savings directive was 10%, but I found that the savings in that service were 20%. That is why I applied last year to recruit 38 people extra. These people remain in service; I have asked again for funds for this. In addition to these 38 staff, 22 additional persons will be recruited. In my opinion, this is also necessary in this service, given the increasing number of applications. As more applications are submitted, I have therefore asked for 22 additional staff to be recruited. As you know, we have taken the Tetra computer program back into operation, because Capgemini's product did not work at all. I hope that we will soon receive the report from the experts who are investigating where the error lies. In committee meetings, I also indicated that the decision to re-use Tetra applies for 2018 and 2019. The question is what will happen next, in 2020, 2021. Tetra also wonders whether or not there will be an extension. I have now submitted a further question to the government. Even though it may no longer be my responsibility after 2019, I would like my successor to see the budget released and measures taken for the ICT system after 2020. Then there was a question about the decision. The summer agreement agreed to release EUR 100 million. I also realise that it took too long for the government to reach an agreement on who gets what, with the result that the decision on the amount of EUR 40 per month did not enter into force until 1 July. I would also have preferred it to have taken place on 1 January, which goes without saying. There is no doubt that everyone here knows that there is no malice involved. If it depended on me, it could have been from January 1st, but it was practically impossible. They asked what would happen to the remaining EUR 40 million. As I said a moment ago, a recurrent amount is needed to eliminate discrimination against people with disabilities. Now they are being discriminated against, because once they go to work they suffer losses. However, in order to keep them working, I need additional money and I have put in a further question for that. This is, of course, not only for 2018, but also for 2019, 2020, 2021 and the following years. I hope that I will soon be given the green light to address that problem, which also has to do with independent living, autonomy, social inclusion and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u150	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your explanation. Beyond the comments I am not going to repeat, the key issue is the simplification of the system and the achievement of automatic rights. That is the question that was asked earlier by Mr Clarinval. I think that's the real challenge. As I said earlier, if we could simplify this patched-up law, it would be easier to reach automatic rights. Indeed, this law is complicated to implement for both staff and IT applications. We always ask for more. Every time we make a change here, we inevitably ask for new applications. This will be extra work, while this whole problem of workload, computer problems and other problems already arises. Compared to fairness for applicants, those who now receive an integration allowance, for the price of love, the new allowance could easily be recalculated. On the other hand, for those who have had a refusal in the past, fairness, as Ms Gerkens has said, would like at some point all cases to be reviewed so that on the same date they would enjoy the same right, which unfortunately does not seem to be the case. As automatic revisions take place after a certain period of time, this means that beneficiaries will be aware of the effects of the new measure in several months for some or in a very long time for others. That doesn't seem fair to me. That's my first point. Finally, these two measures are positive. We must rejoice and vote for them, but we must keep a great deal of humility, because the general challenge of eliminating exclusion and poverty among people with disabilities is far from being met. There are still very harsh situations in families and for the people concerned. This must remain a priority in the future. I hope that will be so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u151	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the additional information you have given us. You express the will to improve the situation and I agree with you on the need for complicity with other members of the government in order to achieve the final objectives and to achieve, at a minimum, amounts equivalent to the poverty line for all recipients of replacement income. I would like to take this opportunity of the plenary meeting to call for this solidarity. Indeed, it is unacceptable that, in a country like ours - endowed with so much wealth - many people live on such low incomes, in addition to suffering from difficulties arising from their disability. With regard to the integration allowance, I come back to my question. A proactive approach by the administration and associations must be taken so that people whose files have been refused can reintroduce it. That's very good. I believe that the municipalities and CPAS must also be involved in this initiative, since it is through these institutions that requests are generally expressed. However, will the file of the current beneficiaries of an integration allowance, who will theoretically be able to benefit from this increase, be recalculated within a maximum of three months or will the correction be made only at the time of the automatic multi-year review of the file? This question is essential. If anyone knows that he is entitled to an increase of 40 euros a month since January 1st of this year, but that he will only benefit from it in April 2019 or 2020, it is obviously unacceptable. I would therefore like you to answer precisely on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u152	Madam Secretary of State, I will make a first comment. At the beginning of your speech, you insisted heavily on the choice you had to make to propose certain categories of persons with disabilities, on the grounds that no compromise could be found within the government. I must conclude from this that at least one of the parties sitting on it has prevented a progress which seems obvious to the House. I'm sorry. Then I asked you about the tax impact. I would like to do it once again or ask Mr Clarinval a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u153	Yeah?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u154	What is it, Jean-Marc?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u155	No, I was talking about George, who said the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u156	Georges?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u157	Please proceed, Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u158	Jean-Marc, does something bother you about what I said?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u159	No, not at all!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u160	No, Mrs. Fonck, go on!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u161	On the tax side, Mrs Demir, I asked you the question, but you did not commit yourself. Perhaps I should do so with Mr.Clarinval or with the Minister of Budget? By lifting the partial effects of the price of love, the people concerned will earn a little more income. One of the risks is that, if they move into the higher tax bracket, they will be penalized and earn less than they earned without this corrective part of the price of love. The big question is whether there are safeguards in this area and whether the government needs to touch on taxation, as sometimes has to be done. Do you have the guarantee that there won't be this pitfall? If this is not the case, do you make a commitment to look at it extremely quickly? We should not end up in the situation we experienced a few months ago in another case, the one on pensions, where, in the end, we were taking back on one side what we had given on the other. That would obviously be totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u162	Mr Delizée, it is indeed very complex legislation, which is why DG HAN's work is difficult. I am now also trying, with my draft, if it is approved by Parliament, to simplify the scales in view of the price of work. That is necessary, but in fact we should update the whole of the law, as has been said in committee. Mrs Gerkens, we will communicate widely through the sickness funds and the municipalities, so that anyone who is entitled to it knows that and can submit his application, after which it can be dealt with. Mrs Fonck, I will take your point, because it cannot be the intention that we give with one hand and take away with the other. That problem has already surfaced in another file in the past, so I will take it with me to the colleagues responsible for taxation and make it clear to them that this cannot be the intention. Finally, I would like to thank DG HAN's officials. They have received a great deal of criticism over the past year. Everywhere they were head of jut for the delays, the things that didn't work, the phones that weren't recorded. They were under enormous pressure, even though they really mean well and do their best. So I would ask you all to be a little bit understanding. We are moving in the right direction, step by step, and I am confident that our officials will be successful. Thanks to the additional staff, the total number of staff, if we add the 28 extra staff, they will be able to catch their breath. I have a good eye for it, including with regard to the operationalisation of the various dossiers. Therefore, on behalf of all my fellow Members, I would like to thank DG HAN's officials, who have been under such great pressure over the past year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u163	Minister, I come back to my question. When will the integration allowance be regularized for those who benefit from it today? Will regularisation be effective now for everyone or will some have to wait for automatic multi-annual regularisation? This is not clear when reading the clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u164	I cannot answer the question about how and what, because it is a question about the operational aspect and I do not support the points of contact myself. I apologize for that. The law says very clearly that the person himself will have to apply. DG HAN will communicate through civil society that the parties concerned can apply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u165	I assume that Mr Clarinval's answer was also to say that the people who would have to reapply were those who had been denied the right to the integration allowance. In this case, I am referring to those who today receive an integration allowance of an X amount because they had a particular income or because their spouse had a particular income. These people, today, are entitled to more thanks to the bill. The purpose of my question to Mr Clarinval's address was to verify with the administration and in the text of the proposed law, since in that text it is stated that this correction of the amount related to the new provisions and methods of calculation would be for those whose application is new and then that it would be for the others, at the time of the automatic multi-year evaluation. This means that people will only be entitled to this supplement in X months or X years. Obviously, you can't answer me now. But I draw your attention to the fact that everything needs to be put in place so that these people have access to it now. My question is related to the way in which the section of the bill is drafted to allow these issues to remain. I will say a final word about the staff of DG People with Disabilities. I fully agree with you and it seems to me that in my interventions, I have always noted the fact that these workers were subjected to unbearable pressure and stress, that there was a mistake in the choice of software and that this staff was not trusted in the choice of software. There have been interventions to promote specific software and it is important to identify responsibilities for these choices. The mode of governance and direction of the service has not been up to date and there have been excessive restrictions on the number of workers in this administration. I join you in the need to support those workers who are trying to catch up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u166	This issue was clearly raised during the debates in committee. I interviewed the services and I was told that for those already in receipt of an allowance today, regardless of the period of re-evaluation of their file, there would be a current re-evaluation. On the other hand, those who have been refused must re-apply. That's what I understood. I'm not operational, but we seemed to be reassuring about the answer. I'm not 100% sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u167	I agree with Mr Clarinval's statement. Mrs Gerkens, I will take your concerns with me to DG HAN.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u168	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u169	We have discussed the articles of the Bill No. 3200 on. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3200/4) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of the bill No. 3200. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3200/4) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in - Bill amending the Act of 27 February 1987 on allowances for disabled persons with regard to the amount of the income replacement allowance". The title in French has been amended by the committee in draft law amending the Act of 27 February 1987 on allowances for persons with disabilities with regard to the amount of the income replacement allowance". The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u170	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We understand the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 357 on. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (357/7) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of the bill No. 357. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (357/7) The title was changed by the committee to contain the effects of the 'price of love'. The title has been amended by the Commission as a bill to reduce the effects of the 'price of love'." The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u171	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u172	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Conseil Degroote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u173	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Ben Hamou, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u174	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be very brief. The community guards have existed in our country since 2007. In 2014, the powers were extended considerably. Meanwhile, there are about 1500 community guards active in the country. Since 2014, it was also foreseen that they would have to take a training course and pass an exam. But it was very strange that they didn't have to pass that exam. That was illogical. Several schools of administrative law and agencies such as VVSG and the like insisted that they attach more credibility and value to that position and the exam by determining that they should pass the exam. The bill also provides for re-opportunity for those who fail. This corrected an illogical situation from the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u175	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just a word to explain my group's abstention. This bill is the second substantial amendment affecting peacekeepers in just a few weeks. We can hear that a reflection is being conducted around these agents. But this should also be done with the workers concerned. Neither this project nor the previous amendments have been the subject of social consultation with the representatives of the main stakeholders. On the substance, we could have discussed whether or not the proposal is relevant, but do so as the majority does by ensuring that workers' organisations are not involved in the discussions, that no opinion on the general implications for the status of these peacekeepers is asked of the various bodies, that it is a way of working that is respectful neither of the guardians of the peace nor of the communes that will have to implement the measure, nor even of the parliamentarians. That is why, Mr President, we do not support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u176	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u177	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2396/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2396/4) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending the Law of 15 May 2007 establishing the function of Community Guard, establishing the Community Guard Service and amending Article 119a of the new Municipal Law as regards training." The title has been amended by the Commission to propose a law amending the Act of 15 May 2007 on the creation of the post of peacekeeper, the establishment of the Peacekeepers' Service and the amendment of Article 119bis of the new communal law, with regard to training". The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u178	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u179	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Jef Van den Bergh, Franky Demon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u180	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Cheron, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u181	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can confirm that there is a very good report at your disposal, that you can all read it quietly. We are now discussing a different subject, road safety. Road safety remains high on the agenda. With this proposal, we are focusing on a group of hard-hitting traffic criminals who know the rules well, who repeatedly appear before police judges and who study the legislation to avoid certain penalties. A trick that is used, for example, is to register the vehicle with which the offence is committed deliberately in another person's name, for example that of the wife or mother, or in the name of some company. The latest draft legislation on road safety adopted here in plenary in March already introduced registration liability, including for natural persons. In this way, another important step was taken to counter the impunity of drivers. But it's not just about avoiding fines. Our traffic legislation also provides for a penalty in the form of the seizure of a vehicle, the immobilisation or confiscation of a vehicle. However, this possible punishment could hardly be applied by the police courts by the terms of the legislation. Such confiscation was possible, for example, only if the vehicle with which the facts were committed was effectively registered in the name of the offender at the time of the conviction. That's where the shoe just pinched. Often these vehicles were quickly registered in someone else's name, or were sold between the offence and the conviction. To do something about this, we have been looking for the best solution for a very long time. A logical step would be to delete the ownership requirement. Of course, this is not as obvious, especially if the third party, whose vehicle is now, has nothing to do with the matter. Following various debates and hearings in the Infrastructure Committee, we have come up with a proposal that has been amended in such a way that the judge can declare an immobilisation or forfeiture for a vehicle whose owner is not the offender but is aware or systematic that a vehicle lends to a driver who knows he does not have a driving licence, has a driving ban, drives under the influence of drugs or alcohol, etc. In those circumstances, the owner of the vehicle also commits a traffic offence. It's against the law to cooperate. That's why we're assigning an important role to the state's attorney's office. The latter will be given the role of investigating whether or not the owner acted in good faith. The owner only risks forfeiture if it can be proved effectively that he was aware that the driver systematically failed to comply with the rules. Another element that emerged as a problem from the hearing was that the condition to have a six-month driving ban for forfeiture was well high and would be better brought to three months. We are also taking this aspect into account in the legislative proposal before us. In the end, we amended the bill with some articles to improve the road traffic law as adopted here in March. There were some uncertainties in it. I refer, for example, to Article 4 which clarifies the deadlines for the payment order. I refer to Articles 6 and 7 which lay down the procedure for determining registration liability, which was not included in the draft law. It is also important to clarify the period of repetition for the punishment of recidivism. You may recall that there was something to do a few weeks ago: a number of lawyers had found a loophole in the recidivism, because they were counted as sentencing. Smart lawyers can, of course, postpone these convictions for a while, but we have found an answer to that in Article 2 of the present bill. This bill has a long history, before and behind the scenes. It has not always been very easy technically, but we have come to a good compromise, thanks to our fellow Members for their cooperation. We have found a good balance between ownership, which we do not want to touch too hard, and a good approach to traffic criminals on our roads. A good, appropriate approach to this is very important. We know the stories of people who were repeatedly banned from driving and kept driving, whose driving licence was withdrawn when they didn't even have it. We cannot be strict enough for such drivers. With this bill, we give the police judges a good instrument again, namely they become in their mobility by possibly declaring the car forfeit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u182	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, everyone will agree that road safety in our country is a key issue, even if several ministers have taken on their responsibilities. For example, there is a lot of investment in road infrastructure at Flemish level. Crossroads are made conflict-free and black intersections are addressed more quickly, while less popular measures are taken. For example, the maximum speed on regional roads was reduced to 70 and the driving training was reformed. However, accident statistics remain very high. We have yet to achieve our goal of reducing the number of road deaths. Some drivers continue to make the road unsafe, because they tend to learn from their mistakes. They keep driving without a driver's license or under the influence. A recent phenomenon is that of the wedding tours. This creates completely dangerous traffic situations, because drivers block all lanes on a motorway. We must be able to act against this. A hard core of traffic criminals is left with the feeling that they can escape the dance too easily, for example because they are constantly driving around with someone else's car. The federal legislature can do something about that. Since 2016, a majority resolution has been voted here in the Chamber on how to deal with refugee offences. It called on the government to put in place a number of smaller concrete measures to increase the chances of being caught. In the meantime, we have approved the creation of a database of driving licences and the introduction of the alcohol lock. Another way to tackle the increasing crime of traffic is to increase immobilisation and forfeiture, which is proposed by the text before the vote. In the case of immobilisation, the use of the vehicle is temporarily prevented, for example by the use of a wheel clamp. In the event of confiscation, the driver shall lose the right of ownership of the vehicle with which he committed the crime. The present legislative proposal provides for the extension of these two measures. We have talked about it for a long time and sought solutions for a long time, because our group did not agree with the initial proposal to completely abolish the ownership requirement. Together with the other groups, we have finally reached a compromise whereby owners who have in good faith made their cars available will not be the victims of what the perpetrator has done, while we can meet those who are in bad faith and knowingly make their cars available to someone who is not allowed to drive. An owner who is aware of the fact that the driver cannot present a valid driving licence or who knows that the driver is under the influence of the driver could already be fined a traffic fine, but the police judge could not confiscate the car himself. It is now up to the prosecution to investigate whether the owner of the vehicle was in good faith or in bad faith. It still has the freedom to subpoena or not. In other words, the prosecution will have an important role to play in this. Furthermore, the forfeiture will also be possible, as Mr Jef Van den Bergh has already indicated, in the event of a expiry of the right to send for three months instead of six months. Police judges will therefore be given more resources in connection with confiscation and immobilisation. They will be given even more opportunities at the arsenal to deal with hard-hitting traffic offenders, which they already have at their disposal. We hope, of course, that they will use it in all wisdom. We have confidence in that. It is not in any case that they must declare the confiscation, but in the cases for which it is necessary. Finally, the text was amended in committee to include some technical repairs in the Road Safety Improvement Act. The most important were the statute of limitations for cross-recidivism. The proposed text solves the problem of a specific serious offence leading to acquittal so far, because the limitation period was not properly regulated. The N-VA Group is therefore very pleased with the text before us. I would like to thank Members for their very constructive cooperation in dealing with the proposal in committee. We shall therefore support it wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u183	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u184	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1820/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1820/6) The bill has 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u185	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u186	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Daphné Dumery, Jef Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u187	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Inez De Coninck, rapporteur, referred to the written report. I give the floor to Mrs Dumery.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u188	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will make my statement on my bench. The school street is already being used today in many cities and municipalities. However, the school street has no legal basis and this is precisely what is envisaged with the present legislative proposal. A lot of schools are on busy...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u189	[[Without microphone]] [[.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u190	The report is from Mrs. De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u191	In this case, there are errors in the Chamber's documents. Indeed, I read: 'Laurent Devin', which I know personally, and 'Ms. Inez De Coninck', which we are living with here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u192	Are we talking about document 2161/004?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u193	Mr. President, from 1 to 5. That's right. There's nothing to worry about.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u194	We take note and we will check.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u195	Mr President, the reason why we are today presenting a bill introducing the school street is that road safety at the school gate is a concern of many cities and municipalities. As the playground exists, we must also have a school street, where the street is closed at the hours when the school gate opens and closes. This ensures that cyclists and pedestrians have priority and that only residents of the school street, emergency workers and anyone who gets a permit from the municipality, have access by car. It is therefore a small technical adjustment which will make it possible to register the school street in traffic legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u196	Mr President, I agree with Mr Dumery, who has already explained the proposal perfectly. The school street was first launched in the city of Ghent in 2012, and many other municipalities have since been followed. In the meantime, the Flemish Minister of Education has also launched the "Paraat voor de schoolstraat" campaign, to indicate that more and more local authorities and schools want to use on a school street. So we come just in time with a clear legal framework for this, so that we shape this positive trend with many benefits for the school environments through the present modification of the Road Code. I thank everyone for their cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u197	Mr President, first of all my Ecolo-Groen Group supports the proposal. Indeed, this principle of school street is an excellent evolution. Mr. Van den Bergh recalled that the first initiative comes from the excellent city of Ghent, in the middle of a holiday period and where an excellent majority works, with members of Groen particularly dynamic. As a result of their experience, we have tabled an amendment because part of the text is not explicit, namely the question of fixed or mobile barriers. An ambiguity is present in the text. We have tabled an amendment on the basis of the Gypsy experience to avoid this blurry, which does not remove the general quality of the text in harmony with the evolution of the road code, whose main developments we expect in a few months' time. We hope that other provisions in line with the school street project will complement a positive development of the Road Traffic Code, making more room for milder modes of travel, pedestrians, cyclists and more precarious audiences, school audiences. My group will support this text and we hope that the majority will use the 48 hours available to make some contacts in the country. Gantoese holidays are moments of great conviviality but also great contacts between individuals. We hope that the outcome will be positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u198	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u199	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2161/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2161/5) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u200	• 2 – Marcel Cheron cs (2161/6) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and article that has been retained and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u201	Held: the vote on the amendment and Article 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u202	Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u203	******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u204	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Veli Yüksel, Nahima Lanjri, Roel Deseyn, Jef Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u205	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1277/4) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1277/4) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u206	Mr President, I refer to my written report. This one has its own qualities, even if it was not done with Mr. Devin.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u207	Mr President, we would have liked to have voted on this text with the greatest enthusiasm. When you read it, you're in for it. However, this text highlights hypocrisy. It presents what we want and what the government does. Mr Van den Bergh, you would laugh at yourself! When I read it, I thought I'd vote for it. I will make a few considerations on the various points. The first point of this resolution is to continue to give priority to customers in postal policy, and to pay attention to consumers and small businesses. One wonders how the removal of red boxes is an added value for customers. As the N-VA clearly pointed out in committee, the government's only real obsession is to move the course of action forward. In point 2, we are told to ensure the quality of postal services and to improve them on an ad hoc basis by formulating clear objectives and obligations to achieve results. It will be recalled that the management contract adopted under this government does not require a quantitative reduction in the environmental impact of bpost, but a maintenance at a certain maximum level. By comparison, Minister Labille's management contract imposed a 35% reduction in CO2 emissions. In point 3, it is requested to ensure that shipments relating to family events are distributed on time. We're being asked to send the letters in time. Today I ask myself this question: what means are they being given to bpost today to ensure this very specific mission? Point 4 asks to ensure that prices are affordable, cost-based, non-discriminatory and transparent so that no one is excluded from the postal market. Nice resolution! Such a request goes directly against what was voted on here a few months ago. The IBPT had written black and white about the consequences of the law: "The price of the stamp will fly away. It will be even less controlled than before and even less cost-based." Worse, Minister De Croo supported the recent bpost announcement that proposes to increase the stamp price for J+1 shipments, a service that so far was provided at a normal price. In point 5, it is proposed that a qualitative and complete assortment be offered at an acceptable distance, also outside of office hours. As far as distance is concerned, this request is not one since it is demands that have been reaffirmed in the law, again thanks to a socialist minister, Mr Labille. As for opening hours, we look forward to seeing how the government will respond in practice to this request. Point 6 calls for attention to be paid to dispersal and the number of red mailboxes. I recognize that the majority has a certain nerve to make such a request. Will the state, through its administrators, oppose the plan to remove red mailboxes? Do the authors have this guarantee that today the State will act in this regard? For my part, I heard the opposite in committee. Point 7 calls for the universal service provider to be encouraged to play an active role in the implementation of the digital agenda and the provision of recommended electronic consignments as well as recommended hybrid electronic consignments throughout the country. Mr Cheron, you who are my neighbour in committee, when you ask someone to play the role that may be his but not his, as much may be asking him nothing or to live with hope. This demand may be hollow and meaningless, but I will pay attention to it. In point 8, it is intended to support the planned mergers of municipalities by asking for a transitional period for postal consignments which is sufficiently long in view of the street changes and the collective changes in addresses that will result from these mergers. There will therefore be mergers of municipalities before the merger of the police zones and after the merger of the... I'm dealing with point 9. I assure you, Mr President, there are only 13 of them, and as you have given me the floor exceptionally, I will not comment on the last two points! It is requested to assess federal support for print media and to examine how support for print media can be organized with greater media neutrality and future prospects for quality journalism, while paying attention to booksellers. For information, this request has already been the subject of a resolution adopted under this Parliament. My question is: does the majority believe that the government has not sufficiently acted on the first resolution voted here in the House? I come to point 10 – I admit it's my favorite. It is said to pay particular attention to social dialogue and to support a competitive approach in terms of operational excellence, innovation, prices and customer satisfaction, not competition in terms of working conditions and to continue the fight, all together, against false self-employed in the postal sector. This request is cynical. It was this majority and this government that allowed unlimited recourse to the self-employed and subcontractors, by amending the law on public enterprises. It was also the majority who voted against our bill that imposed a contract of employment for those who distribute newspapers. It is this majority that has just refused to hear the unions about the current social conflict, despite its own commitments. And Mr. Flahaux could have witnessed it if his health had allowed him to do so. Finally, it is this majority that has constantly stirred up the spectre of privatization and thus created uncertainty about the fate of workers. In point 11, bpost is encouraged to continue to collaborate on federal diversity policy by presenting quantified objectives and a diversity plan with measurable objectives. It will be recalled that the majority voted against our motion for a resolution in this regard. But, as it is you who deposit it this time, perhaps you will have more consideration for the majority than you have for us! As for points 12 and 13, these do not require comments. I think I've been quite specific in the precedents. Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor for a brief moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u208	Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs De Block, who is really on the ground. We obviously feel that she wants to change some air by taking care of mobility, as she did earlier, and now of the Post Office. It's a job that's still going on! The question raised with this resolution is the same as that raised in committee with the majority refusing to hear the trade union organisations. We are at some point a very important management contract for an equally important public enterprise. We talk a lot about SNCB, but we also have to talk a bit about bpost. In committee, we recorded the attitude of the majority who refused to organise hearings, believing that they were not necessary – which was not the case for SNCB – and despite the high quality of the presidency we have in the Committee on Infrastructure. This started badly, but in the explanatory memorandum to the text tabled by the majority, we are talking precisely about privatisation. CQFD. Is there a relationship between the two? I have the weakness to believe that I do. Mr. Devin has made a number of points that have been carefully reviewed. We are going to table, through Mr Vanden Burrre, two amendments. The first relates to the requirement of one post office per commune. Here we have the desire to have a qualitative and complete assortment at the office level. The second – without making any reference to American cinema – relates to the passage of the factor not twice, but at least once. That is the meaning of this amendment. I am sure the minister shares that wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u209	Mr Cheron, the Infrastructure Committee is not unknown to me. I've been president of it for a while. I recognize some of the things that were listed, because there were problems with them at the time. Good service by bpost, at affordable prices, is in everyone's interest. The government is looking at how it can optimise this service, while cost management remains manageable and universal service is not compromised. According to Minister De Croo, the government has always endeavoured to guarantee the quality of postal services in the management contract with bpost and will continue to do so in the future contract. The movie "The Postman Always Rings Twice" is not my favorite. Anyway, my mailman should only call once.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u210	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u211	Demand 5 • 2 – Gilles Vanden Burre cs (1277/5) Demande/Question 14(n) • 3 – Gilles Vanden Burre cs (1277/5) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u212	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u213	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Gautier Calomne, Stéphanie Thoron, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Gilles Foret
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u214	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2598/5) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2598/5) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Van den Bergh, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u215	Mr.President, in its latest activity report, Child Focus recorded more than 1,800 cases of disappearance in 2017, including fugitives, international parental abductions or third-party abductions. As we all know here, each of these cases is not and will never be a mere statistic. Each of these child stories challenges us because it embodies a national cause. Each of these files goes right to our heart. Of course, the vast majority of these disappearances have been elucidated and the minors found, but the struggle continues for those whose fate unfortunately escapes us. In this regard, many cases have been long-term, some of which have been very long years. We do not forget them, of course, and our support for their families and loved ones is unwavering. That is why we are now voting on this motion for a resolution that we have been voting on for several years with my colleague Stéphanie Thoron. You probably had the opportunity to learn about it, through the commission report, the "Not Found" campaign, initiated by the Child Focus and Missing Children Europe associations, invites the owners of online portals to take advantage of these web-generated error pages and to randomly display children's missing notices. Ultimately, the greater the number of participants in this operation, the greater the likelihood of missing persons being reported. This new form of communication is financially painless and does not pose technical difficulties in terms of implementation. On the contrary, it has advantages in terms of communication in a way that is directly complementary to conventional tools, such as on-street display or advertising in television media. I thank my colleague Gilles Foret who has just given us the latest updated figures. At present, there are 5,704 sites involved in this operation: STIB, Ixelles, Etterbeek, Koekelberg (Mr. Pivin or Mr. Laaouej) or media sites such as Knack, De Morgen, La Libre Belgique or the RTL Group. As stated in the developments, each of these participations is an expression of solidarity in the face of these cases of suffering that are experienced in our country as well as abroad. Currently, almost all federal public service jurisdictions and institutions are on-line. More and more citizens are using these different services on the Internet. However, unfortunately, it must be noted that the vast majority of these bodies that depend on the federal level do not yet participate in the "Not Found" project, while their websites are frequently visited every day. Therefore, since it is essentially a question of information, of pedagogy but above all of good will and, as I indicated, technical and financial considerations are anecdotal, our federal institutions can and must set an example by their ability to mobilize. The purpose of this motion for a resolution is therefore to promote the participation of federal public services, but also of the public structures that depend on them, in this solidarity operation. Ladies and gentlemen, the work in committee has led to broad and even unanimous support for this motion for a resolution. I'm glad. I hope that this will also be the case at this plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, we can all contribute to this effort. We even have a duty to do so because any gesture is likely to make a difference. We can welcome a mobilization that I hope will go beyond partisan divisions and honour our institution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u216	Mr President, Minister De Croo has sent me a message for Mr Calomne and also for the other members of the committee who have supported this. Public services can decide independently on their policy. However, with regard to websites, the Minister wishes to invite them by mail to implement it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u217	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u218	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u219	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Gautier Calomne, Gilles Foret, David Clarinval, Kattrin Jadin, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Benoît Friart, Benoît Piedboeuf, Emmanuel Burton, Olivier Chastel, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u220	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3162/5) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3162/5) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. Mr Jef Van den Bergh, rapporteur, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I assure you, I won't be very long. At the start of my speech, I would like to briefly return to one of the recommendations of the European Digital Summit in Tallin in 2017: "We must make the European Union the ideal place of residence for companies and innovators in the digital age. Europe must not be afraid to welcome revolutionary innovations and technologies, nor to make the most of the free flow of data." Obviously, we cannot miss the train of what some call the "fourth industrial revolution" and miss the many positive effects it brings for our economic fabric, but also for the creation of jobs, which we need so much. The proposal which is now being put to the vote is a direct follow-up to this priority for mobilizing foreign investment at the heart of our country's economy. As you were able to see in the report, it is proposed that the federal government evaluate the relevance of a possible re-appropriation of the Estonian "digital residence" system, and hence the extent of its potential benefits across our country. Behind this concept of digital residence is the possibility for every citizen (in this case non-Estonian), regardless of his nationality and place of residence abroad, to apply, and if necessary to obtain, subject to a number of conditions, a form of digital residence permit in the heart of the Baltic. Very concretely, this is not an immigration-related mechanism, which would allow anyone to apply to settle physically and legally in Estonia. Nor is it a temporary sesame that would act as a right of entry into the European Union. In reality, digital residence does not confer any rights with regard to immigration, residence permits or nationality. Rather, it is an economic scheme which allows, on the basis of this digital residence, accompanied by the issuance of a physical identity card delivered to a consular post, to set up and manage a business in Estonia from abroad through the Internet. In doing so, the entire entrepreneurial ecosystem involving the creation of one or more bank accounts, the issuing, signing and sending of official documents or the payment of various taxes and taxes is directly paid via the Internet. There is a clear, but not exclusive, focus on entrepreneurial projects linked to different technological and digital sectors. This does not specifically require significant physical infrastructure in the host country and is primarily aimed at selling services products on the web. Over the course of four years, this scheme has enabled Estonia to set up more than 5,000 companies that directly contribute to Estonia's economic growth and public finances. Clearly, the Belgian and Estonian realities are not similar and, at this stage, it would be imprudent to argue for a pure and simple adaptation of this lever of economic development. This is why the demand is for this model of digital residence to be evaluated by the various federal public services, in synergy with the regional authorities responsible for economics, foreign trade and foreign investment, in order to determine the possible interests of this system and of national transposition. Notwithstanding the expected benefits in terms of economic growth, technological innovation and the creation of indirect jobs or revenue for the public treasury, this exercise would also allow us to take into account possible sources of difficulties that we have not yet considered at this stage. It is clear that, in a logic of good governance as we conceive it, a measure can be sustained in the long term if and only if it meets a set of conditions in terms of efficiency, performance, cost control and, above all, overall and sustainable results. I am pleased that this proposal, which we have with my colleague Gilles Forêt and the support of other Liberal colleagues (all of whom you have mentioned) with an essentially forward-looking dimension, has attracted broad support in our committee work and has a similar fate this week. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the mobilisation for a Belgium rooted in the 4th industrial revolution - which I mentioned in the preamble to my speech - for a global strategy that does not exclude any path of development, with the prism of pragmatism and prudence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u222	Mr President, I assure you, I will be a little less long. All this to tell Mr Calomne that we will abstain from this project, which is based on a model of social deregulation and dumping. The model to be followed in Europe must be that of greater harmonisation in the states, in particular with fair taxation of GAFAs, which would allow more healthy competition for European digital players. More fundamentally, the philosophy of this model is to promote the free movement of goods while restricting the free movement of persons, which is not an acceptable model.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u223	Bravo! Well answered!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u224	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u225	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u226	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 3203: Peter Buysrogge, Richard Miller, Veli Yüksel, Tim Vandenput, Karolien Grosemans, Rita Bellens, Hendrik Bogaert - 2219: Benoit Hellings, Wouter De Vriendt, Muriel Gerkens, Stefaan Van Hecke, Georges Gilkinet, Anne Dedry, Gilles Vanden Burre.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u227	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (320/4) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3203/4) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u228	I'm not going to cool you, Mrs. Lalieux, on the contrary. I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u229	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Thiéry for his excellent report, partly thanks to the proper functioning of our services. I am convinced that, should Mr Devin have produced the report, it would have been just as good. The proposal was adopted in committee on 4 July and will shortly be put to the vote in plenary. I think this has worked well, especially since this discussion has a long history. There have been many exchanges of views and hearings. I would therefore like to thank the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for their resolution No. 2219 which ensured that the subject of the killer robots was placed on the political agenda and that we discussed it extensively in committee. The hearings have revealed a great deal. For example, there is still a lot of uncertainty about what a killer robot is exactly. It has also become clear that we must ensure that research and innovation are not smothered in the bud but given every opportunity. There are two possibilities if we follow the Ecolo-Green resolution. They can be amended in great detail, so to speak, or a new strong resolution can be written. It is not the length of the resolution that is important but the content. In our resolution, we express our unequivocal opposition to the so-called killer robots. Killer robots are completely autonomous weapon systems that start killing without anyone being accounted for. In our resolution we make three clear points. Firstly, the government must participate in the establishment of an international definition. Secondly, the government must work for a global ban. Thirdly, such systems should never be used by Lands defense. And when we talk about 'no use', we mean that the purchase of such weapon systems cannot either. By making a clear statement to us in this House next Thursday, at least that is what I hope we will take the lead on the international front. No national parliament has spoken so clearly. In the past Parliament has done this in other areas, such as landmines and cluster munitions in 1996 and 2006, respectively, what we are doing today is not a copy, but we are asking for a vote of principle to speak out against those so-called killer robots. In our resolution we also bring a little more balance in comparison with Mr Hellings and Mr co's resolution. A concern that lived was that any kind of scientific research and innovation in the field of automation and artificial intelligence would be made more difficult. Hence our plea to continue to support the development and use of robotic technology for civilian purposes. Colleagues, from Pax Christi Vlaanderen and the campaign team Stop Killer Robots, we have already received a number of congratulations for our resolution and its adoption in the Defence Committee. I hope that these congratulations, contrary to the way in which the committee votes, will be shared in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u230	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief, but not as brief as the developments in this text, written in haste by the majority in order not to have to support the already existing text proposed to us, a text from the opposition and on which we conducted hearings. My group has tabled amendments on this text, which were intended to be constructive. But my group will support this majority text because, yes, it is a timid step forward, but it is still a step forward. For my part, symbolically, however, I will abstain for reasons of form, but also of substance. As you will understand, the majority's urgent hold-up on this subject which has been under discussion for months in our committee is as inelegant as it is harmful to the parliamentary debate. On the bottom, and this is the main thing after all, Belgium has always been at the forefront of the global fight against so-called "salt" weapons. We have always made it a political fight within our group. We therefore fully share and support the basic objectives of this debate aimed at prohibiting the development, production and use of fully autonomous weapons systems. The very interesting hearings we have conducted have enabled us to adopt an approach that is as proactive as it is realistic in this area, in particular on the developments already existing, for example concerning automatic systems for the protection of our frigates. The main questions were, in our view, the following. What exactly is meant by "totally autonomous" weapons? Should we ban, or rather strictly regulate, certain developments that are necessary for us in the face of certain threats, obviously in strict compliance with international and humanitarian law? That is why I tabled amendments in committee. The aim is obviously not to block the development and use of robotics technology for civil and peaceful purposes, a research and development in which the expertise of our Belgian industry is recognized. Therefore, for us, the definition given by the International Committee of the Red Cross seemed to us to meet the objectives that should be pursued by our Assembly in this regard. This definition of the Red Cross identified the concept of critical function, for example, the choice of target and the decision to draw, with regard to the necessary prohibition for us, the development, production and use of fully autonomous weapons systems. Consideration must be given to existing systems that can be justified within a strict framework that respects international humanitarian law and that do not pose a problem. The advantage of this broad definition is that it allows for the consideration of both current technology and new technological developments which, in the future, could raise legitimate concerns under, inter alia, international humanitarian law. It must be noted that, as usual, the majority has chosen the lowest common denominator, by providing only that "Belgian Defence never deploy killer robots in military operations". So we are not talking about buying or developing here, so we are clearly left with too little taste, especially when we know that in 2014, the European Parliament voted a resolution calling for "a ban on the development, production and use of fully autonomous weapons." However, I welcome the first two points of the proposed text. Of course, we support these first two points. In particular, they call for Belgium to advocate in international forums for a global ban on the use of these fully automated robots and drones. When we know the vagueness of the majority about the decision to buy armable drones, I think this point is very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, we congratulate Mr Chabot on his Mayden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u232	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of next month in Geneva, the representatives of the various States that are parties to the Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons, the CCAC, will meet for the second time this year to continue their work on autonomous lethal weapons. We can already welcome the shift from negotiation between academics and researchers to another group of government experts to formalize the formal process. States have thus allowed this issue not to remain confined to theoretical discussions. For us, this negotiation must lead to the same goal as Protocol IV to the Convention, which I have just mentioned, entered into force in 1998, which bans the use and transfer of blinding laser weapons even before such weapons have appeared on a battlefield. We realize that a new protocol can only be adopted if the international mobilization of State and non-State actors remains strong in this area. It is in this perspective, therefore, that the approach we have taken together in our Parliamentary Assembly is part of the process. I would like to thank the Ecolo-Groen Group for having submitted this dossier. I call on all Members to vote unanimously tomorrow. I thank the PS Group for announcing that it would support this motion for a resolution. I respect, of course, the reservations expressed in his Mayden speech by our excellent colleague Mr Chabot. Why is it important to vote on this text? Obviously, to give maximum diplomatic impact to this fight. It is this unanimity that will enable the Minister of Foreign Affairs and our diplomats to influence the ongoing negotiations and set an example for other parliaments. Belgium will thus be able to reiterate its commitment to peace and security and – who knows? – through our seat as a non-permanent member of the Security Council, move this issue forward. Canada, along with the anti-landmine movement in the 1990s, or Norway in the 2000s and the fight against cluster munitions, set an example. Let's do the same with one or the other partner country. Our diplomacy is active in fuelling the negotiations. Let us continue this effort and give it full resonance. It is on the same model of Protocol IV of the Convention that we want a preventive ban on autonomous lethal weapon systems, i.e. SALA. Although the precise definition of these SALAs is being negotiated, as has been pointed out in previous interventions, the main ethical and legal principles are known. First, to affirm the mandatory nature of human control over such weapons in its decision-making cycle. This would avoid threatening certain fundamental moral principles that govern the decision to use force. Self-government undermines several key elements of international humanitarian law that have governed armed conflicts since the Geneva Conventions of 1949 and their Additional Protocols: human dignity, precaution, the distinction between civilians and the military and proportionality aimed at avoiding losses. In our view, the link between these concepts of command and subordination remains absolutely fundamental. How can we introduce in a machine, even with the most advanced artificial intelligence, an ethic of discernment? It is this distinction which, in the final analysis, characterizes the separation between human and machine. Can we accept, ladies and gentlemen, that one day a robot can decide the fate of a human being alone? Can we delegate a life or death decision to a machine? Asking the question is already answering it. The principles of distinction and proportionality must therefore be taken into account in defining and neutralizing targets. Finally, other questions arise, such as the liability of the machine for errors committed by the machine or the computer protection against piracy. Second, artificial intelligence has great positive potential for humanity, in many different ways. I'm thinking of medicine or, later, space exploration. The research whose objective is civilian is, as Mr Buysrogge has pointed out, the research that advances the whole of humanity. This must be preserved. This is clearly highlighted in the motion for a resolution before you. Colleagues, strong in our resolution, our Assembly must remain committed to this issue and be attentive to the meeting to be held from 21 to 23 November and to determine the work programme for 2019. Let us hope that the negotiation of a binding legal instrument, preventing weapons killing humans without any more human control, will prevent a disastrous arms race, a robotization of war and, a hundred years after the end of the First World War, the ultimate dehumanization of war.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u233	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking Messrs. Miller and Buysrogge for the elegance of their words. They acknowledged the authorship of my group's text and initiative on autonomous lethal weapons. This contrasts with the method of making us slow down during four Defence Committees, making us hear experts, not tabling any amendments, and finally drafting a text voted equally quickly by the majority. Either, it is democracy and the Rules of the House. You fully respected him. On the other hand, for elegance, we'll come back! Mr Buysrogge, you described your motion as a dynamic resolution, using the word krachtig. It is not because the notion of "killer robot" that you use does not correspond to anything that is discussed at the international level when it comes to totally autonomous lethal weapons. As Mr. Miller has said, discussions are under way at the international level and forums like the International Committee of the Red Cross are putting forward a series of proposals, but they are systematically referred to as "totally autonomous lethal weapons". In fact, a discussion took place in the European Parliament on this subject. It was scheduled for 3 July but was postponed because it was balanced with another issue under discussion: military investment. In any case, the European Parliament, which is not the least of the instances, uses not the words "killer robot" which cover nothing specific but the expression "totally autonomous lethal weapons". The various and varied resolutions that have been discussed at both the UN and the European Parliament talk about the prohibition of the development, design, manufacture, sale and purchase of these autonomous lethal weapons. Your resolution only prevents the purchase of lethal weapons entirely autonomous by the Defence. It does not refer to the industrial prohibition of development, design and manufacturing. Of course, this resolution is a step forward since, before that, there was never any talk of totally autonomous lethal weapons, nor was it prohibited for the Defence to acquire them one day. In this sense, it is a step forward, but it is not a major step forward since, in the case before us here, in the suggestions and proposals made, it is quite possible that a university research centre or a private research centre in a private company develops this type of technology and sells it abroad or, as I said in committee, sells it to the federal police. Indeed, a totally autonomous lethal weapon can be considered. It could be any kind of object such as, for example, a vehicle containing demonstrators and where a decision is made by the algorithm in the vehicle to proceed with the injury or assassination of a person who would represent a danger in public space. Rather than working on our text, which has been the subject of lengthy hearings and discussions, four times in committee, you have preferred to draft a text in a rush to make sure that our text is not voted on; it is your right. Mr Miller, you have made the parallel with the anti-personnel mine file. I would like to make it clear that when Belgium committed itself at the international level, in international forums, to work on a treaty to ban these anti-personnel mines that our industries previously manufactured, at the same time, the Belgian Parliament banned the manufacture of anti-personnel mines. So you worked a little cavalierly and fundamentally different from our predecessors who acted in another similar case. We will vote for your imperfect resolution and we are looking for a solution to mark our difference. Before the vote in plenary, I will inform you of the way in which our group will behave. In any case, a majority of the Ecolo-Groen Group will vote in favour of this resolution, which represents a small step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u234	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u235	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u236	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Peter Buysrogge, Yoleen Van Camp, Katja Gabriels, Brecht Vermeulen, Franky Demon, Griet Smaers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u237	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1969/1+6) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1969/1+6) The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee to "proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives with regard to the temporary exclusive availability of answers to written questions." The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities and 'Proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives with regard to the temporary exclusive availability of answers to written questions'. The discussion of the only article has been opened. The discussion of the single article is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u238	Mr. President, what am I going to do? I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u239	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u240	The discussion of the only Rule is closed. The vote on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure will take place at a later date. The discussion of the single article is closed. The vote on the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u241	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2801: André Frédéric, Brecht Vermeulen, Emmanuel Burton, Gautier Calomne, Franky Demon, Katja Gabriëls, Kristof Calvo, Catherine Fonck - 2806: Jean-Marc Nollet, Brecht Vermeulen, André Frédéric, Emmanuel Burton, Gautier Calomne, Franky Demon, Vincent Van Peteghem, Catherine Fonck, Patrick Dewael. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two proposals. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u242	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u243	Mr President, my group obviously has no problem with the participation of Members of Parliament in the work of the committee. However, we note that this has been taken care of in a peculiar way. A Member of Parliament cannot be replaced in plenary. There may be a vote for the votes in plenary, but in such cases the Member concerned is not present, but is absent and the Member is considered absent for the calculation of parliamentary remuneration. In committee meetings, on the other hand, the proposal states that those who are to be replaced under Rule 22 shall be deemed to be present for the calculation of parliamentary remuneration. I find that very strange, because the Member of Parliament is absent from the committee meeting and is being replaced, but is considered to be present. The rules in the committees differ from those in the plenary. In my view, the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure was intended to remove phantom MEPs, which are intended to be MEPs who come here only during Thursday's plenary sessions, but which we do not see for the rest of the week. I note that the proposed amendment does not resolve this problem at all. That is why Mr Wouters and I are tabling an amendment. On the contrary, with this proposal, the phantom MPs will remain phantom MPs and will be replaced by their party slaves at committee meetings. The participation is thus really pushed to the top. The aim, to allow members to participate in committee meetings, will not be achieved. To call a cat a cat, the problem of Mr Di Rupo and Mr De Wever is not solved with this proposal at all. They will remain absent and only come to the button on Thursday. In this way, without doing parliamentary work, they will take their full parliamentary bet. That is a rather unique situation: by taking part in votes for half an hour to an hour, one gets a full wager. Many workers in this country would also like to make such a job appointment, but unfortunately this is not the case. That is why Mrs Wouters and I have tabled an amendment asking that anyone who wants to be replaced in the committees should be able to do so. In other words, it will be perfectly possible to vote. Those who are replaced shall be deemed to be absent. If we approve this amendment, we will put an end to the phantom MEPs or Members of Parliament from the late Thursday afternoon, who will just come in at that time. I very much regret that we are making an amendment to the Rules of Procedure here, without removing the problem that led to it and which we really wanted to resolve. On the contrary, there is a new escape route which is very wide open. There will be a difference between political profitarians and political proletariats, namely those who will be able to continue to replace the phantom MPs in the committees. I find it particularly regrettable that a whole scheme is being worked out without solving the real problem. They just ride around. I therefore hope that the amendment tabled by Mrs Wouters and myself will be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u244	We will know that on Thursday, because we will then vote on it. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u245	We shall begin by discussing the articles of proposal No. 2801. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2801/3) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of the proposal bearing No 2801. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2801/3) The proposal contains 3 articles. The proposal has 3 articles. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u246	• 6 - Veerle Wouters cs (2801/5) • 1 - Meryame Kitir cs (2801/4) • 7 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (2801/5) • 2 - Olivier Maingain cs (2801/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u247	• 8 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (2801/5) Art. 3
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u248	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion: Conclusion of the discussion of the articles:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u249	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Articles 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u250	Article adopted by article: Article 1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u251	****** We shall begin by discussing the articles of proposal No. 2806. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2806/5) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of the proposal bearing No 2806. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2806/5) The proposal contains two articles. The proposal has 2 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u252	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u253	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2803: Emmanuel Burton, Brecht Vermeulen, André Frédéric, Gautier Calomne, Franky Demon, Katja Gabriëls, Jean-Marc Nollet, Catherine Fonck - 2818: Monica De Coninck, André Frédéric, Gautier Calomne, Franky Demon, Vincent Van Peteghem, Katja Gabriëls, Jean-Marc Nollet, Catherine Fonck. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two proposals. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u254	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Rita Bellens, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u255	Mr President, we have also tabled an amendment to this proposal. After all, we are very sorry that this lobby register only refers to the Chamber of Representatives. However, the opinion of the federal deontological committee is much wider. We therefore believe that any legislative initiative should be accompanied by a legislative proposal or draft law, a list of the representatives of interests. For the present lobby register, the mustard was sold to the European Parliament and the European Commission. The great gap in this story is that it only applies to the representatives of the people, to the members of this Chamber. For the government, nothing changes. You all know that we have questioned the Prime Minister on several occasions. The answer stays out. You also cycle nicely around the problem. I therefore believe that we will be able to vote for a proposal from the government to draw up such a lobby register for the draft laws it submits to this Chamber. As a Member of Parliament, we must now report every discussion and discussion within the framework of a legislative proposal. We are obliged to expose all our contacts, knowing that this is the government's duty and that, although the influence on the cabinets is many times greater than that of the Members of Parliament, the rule would not apply there. That is why we want to amend the Rules of Procedure. We propose to add a second paragraph, which states that every draft law must in future include a reference to which organisations or interest groups have contributed to the basis, including cabinet staff. This brings transparency to the draft laws and not just to the proposals made by Members of Parliament. I hope that all Members of this House will be able to support it so that not only we are limited and controlled, but that this rule also applies to the members of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u256	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u257	We shall begin by discussing the articles of proposal No. 2803. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2803/3) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of the proposal bearing No 2803. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2803/3) The proposal contains two articles. The proposal has 2 articles. The title was changed by the committee to 'proposal to insert into the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives an article on the register of lobbies'. The title has been amended by the committee to "proposal to include in the Rules of the House of Representatives an article on the register of lobbies". * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u258	• 1 - Veerle Wouters cs (2803/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u259	Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) • 3 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (2803/4) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u260	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Article 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u261	Article adopted by article: Article 1 and Annex.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u262	****** We shall begin by discussing the only article of the proposal No. 2818. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2818/4) We shall now turn to the discussion of the single article of the proposal bearing No 2818. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2818/4) The discussion of the only article has been opened. The discussion of the single article is open. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u263	The discussion of the only Rule is closed. The vote on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure will take place at a later date. The discussion of the single article is closed. The vote on the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u264	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Kristof Calvo, Brecht Vermeulen, André Frédéric, Emmanuel Burton, Gautier Calomne, Franky Demon, Vincent Van Peteghem, Katja Gabriëls, Catherine Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u265	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u266	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2804/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2804/4) The proposal contains two articles. The proposal has 2 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u267	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u268	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: André Frédéric, Brecht Vermeulen, Emmanuel Burton, Gautier Calomne, Franky Demon, Vincent Van Peteghem, Katja Gabriëls, Jean-Marc Nollet, Catherine Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u269	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Monica De Coninck, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u270	Mr President, I would just like to make a small statement concerning our voting in committee. Our group is, of course, very much in favour of the further digitisation of the Chamber, which makes parliamentary work not only more efficient but also more transparent. For this reason, the Chamber has already made major investments in infrastructure, for example the new committee rooms in the Forum building. During the discussion in committee, however, the President of the Chamber stated that the proposed introduction of the digital report would have a high cost. After all, all meetings should be reviewed online, which means that recording and storage are technically quite a task. Our room would not have been equipped for this, according to the services. Additional investments would be needed. For this reason, our group abstained in committee because of course we are concerned about the finances of this House. With this proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, we are not giving a blank cheque for excessive costs. The Bureau and the Management Committee have been instructed to vouch for the material environment in which we work. We therefore expect an economically realistic solution to be adopted there. We shall finally vote in favour of the final vote because we are in favour of the principle and this is an implementation of the conclusions of the Working Party on Political Renewal. However, we have reservations about the cost of investment as we do not know it today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u271	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u272	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2805/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2805/3) The proposal contains 5 articles. The proposal has 5 articles. The title was changed by the committee to "proposal for a revision of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives and of the Rules of Procedure concerning the complete, provisional and summary report of the meetings of the Chamber of Representatives as regards the digital report." The title has been amended by the committee in "proposal to revise the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Rules of Procedure on full, provisional and analytical records of the meetings of the House of Representatives with regard to the digital report". No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u273	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u274	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Franky Demon, Brecht Vermeulen, André Frédéric, Emmanuel Burton, Gautier Calomne, Vincent Van Peteghem, Katja Gabriëls, Kristof Calvo, Catherine Fonck, Monica De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u275	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Van der Donkt, who refers to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u276	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2807/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2807/5) The proposal contains 9 articles. The proposal has 9 articles. The title was changed by the committee to "proposal for a revision of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives with regard to the follow-up of European affairs." The title has been amended by the committee to "proposal to revise the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives with regard to the monitoring of European matters". No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u277	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u278	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Brecht Vermeulen, André Frédéric, Gautier Calomne, Franky Demon, Katja Gabriëls, Kristof Calvo, Catherine Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u279	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Miller, who refers to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u280	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2814/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2814/4) The proposal contains 3 articles. The proposal has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-plenair-ip240x.u281	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure will take place at a later date. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 18 July 2018 at 10.15 a.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday 18 July 2018 at 10.15 a.m.
