ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 October 2018, I propose: - the undertakings under consideration, - the votes on the motions for resolutions on the interpretation of Mr Dirk Van der Maelen's speech to the Minister for Finance responsible for combating tax fraud in connection with a VAT reduction to 6% for electricity 283); - and the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 18 October 2018 to take place before the oral questions. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 October 2018, I propose that: - the consideration; - the nominative votes on the motions tabled in conclusion of the inquiry by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen to the Minister of Finance responsible for combating tax fraud on "a reduction of VAT to 6% for electricity" (No 283); - and the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday 18 October 2018 take place before the oral questions. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u3	The next item is the vote on the motion of confidence tabled by the Prime Minister following the government statement. The next item is the vote on the motion of confidence tabled by the Prime Minister following the government's statement. I shall put this motion to the vote. I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? [[No]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote Yes 81 Yes No. 59 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 141 Total The motion of confidence has been adopted. The motion of confidence was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u4	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 October 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mrs Vanessa Matz) on the evaluation and development of alternatives to the detention of immigrant families with minor children, No. 3306/1; - the bill (Mrs Raoul Hedebouw and Mr Marco Van Hees) abolishing the law of 24 June 2013 on municipal administrative sanctions, No. 3311/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u5	- the bill (Mr Georges Gilkinet cs) on the protection of workers' rights in air transport undertakings, No. 3314/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u6	- the motion for a resolution (Mrs Leen Dierick) on combating malicious webshops, No. 3315/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Leen Dierick) amending the Code of Economic Law and the Law of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications in order to extend the Central Bank's credit database to private individuals with the registration of defaults relating to telecom accounts, No. 3316/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u7	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 October 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the motion for a resolution (Ms Catherine Fonck and Vanessa Matz) to assess and develop alternative methods for the confinement of families with minors, No. 3306/1; - the bill (MM. Raoul Hedebouw and Marco Van Hees) repealing the Act of 24 June 2013 on communal administrative sanctions, No. 3311/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u8	- the proposal for a law (Mr Georges Gilkinet et al.) on the protection of workers' rights in air transport undertakings, No. 3314/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u9	- the motion for a resolution (Ms. Leen Dierick) on combating dishonest webshops, No 3315/1; - the proposal for a law (Ms. Leen Dierick) amending the Code of Economic Law and the Act of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications in order to extend the Centrale des crédits databank to include individuals in the registration of defaults in payment of telecommunications invoices, No. 3316/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u10	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u11	He died on 30 September in Knokke-Heist, at the age of 94, Raphaël Declercq, a former member of the Chamber of Representatives. Raf Declercq was a member of the VU-Kamer in the Bruges arrondissement from February 1980 to October 1985. He was a member of the provincial council of West Flanders from 1970 to 1980, and ships in Knokke-Heist from 1988 to 1992. In the name of the Chamber of Representatives, I have offered my sincere condolences to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u12	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Finance and Budget Commission of 3 October 2018. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee on 3 October 2018. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 283/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Johan Klaps and Mr Eric Van Rompuy. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 283/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Dirk Van der Maelen; - a simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Johan Klaps et Eric Van Rompuy. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u13	Prime Minister, I address you and all the Members of the majority. The electricity bill has already become a second tax letter in Belgium. Electricity prices in Belgium are so high that 100 000 households currently have to apply for a pay-off plan. The situation is already dramatic. Because of this government's tampering, there is uncertainty about this country's energy supply. As a result, it has been calculated that on average each family will pay EUR 120 more than is currently the case. If there is still an ounce of sympathy with the population in this majority, then you follow sp.a's proposal to eliminate that additional 120 euros by reducing the VAT rate from 21 % to 6%. Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, please do not give up on the argument that there is a gap in the budget. Not so long ago, you reduced nuclear interest rates by EUR 1 billion. Now that it is a matter of saving people from an expensive electricity bill, this majority comes down with the budgetary argument. Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to approve this reduction to 6%.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u14	Thank you, Mr Van der Maelen. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 81 Yes No. [[60]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u15	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 18 October 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 18 October 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u16	Mr President, I would like to point out that my question was addressed to the Prime Minister. Minister, the Prime Minister will participate tomorrow in the seventeenth summit of the free-trade union in Armenia. This is obviously very important, because we have brought the government statement forward one day and thrown the agenda in Parliament. Moreover, I note that he cannot even stay five minutes to answer my question. The summit must therefore be very important. Whether the Prime Minister should be present at that summit is another question. It seems logical to me that the Prime Minister of the French Community, Rudy Demotte, should be there. I would like to stress once again that language is a Community competence. I therefore find the situation very strange. You will repeat to me, Minister, that this is the way things are going. The miraculous political structures in Belgium ensure that not only the French Community is a member of that organization of the francophone, but also Belgium. Other prime ministers have preceded our Prime Minister. However, I have some reservations about this. Minister-President Geert Bourgeois also expressed reservations about this state of affairs in the Flemish Parliament. He said that this is not possible at all and that the Prime Minister has no business at all at that meeting of the francophone in Armenia. Apparently, he hasn't been able to convince his party mates in the federal government of that. I have also looked at the agenda of the summit and there are a few mysterious things on it. Zo is a French-speaking call to live it together. I would have liked to know what the content of that is. The question is also what is the purpose of the presence at that summit. Does the Prime Minister wish to meet Mr Macron with a view to listing for the European elections? Or does it have to do with the replacement of the F-16? Or does it have to do with the fact that the summit of the francophone could take place in Brussels in 2022, a question from the French Community?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u17	Before I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to say that the subject was raised yesterday by Mr Calvo in the debate. Since I have no regulatory basis to oppose it, I have accepted your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have just received an answer from the Prime Minister, who is now leaving for the 12th summit of the francophone in Jerevan. Countries are usually represented by their Heads of State or Government, hence the Prime Minister's presence. The Organisation Internationale de la Francophonie (OIF), which brings together countries where French is spoken, was gradually extended to non-French-speaking countries that have a connection with the language and culture of French. Armenia, the host country of the summit, is one of them. The OIF's permanent headquarters are located in Paris. Our bilateral ambassador in Paris has been accredited to the OIF. In 2018, the OIF had 84 states or governments, 54 members, 4 associated members and 26 observers. This represents a total of over 900 million inhabitants across the five continents. Our country is represented by the federal government and by the French Community, La Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles, which are two full members with the right to vote. The theme of the summit is "To live together in solidarity, sharing humanist values and respect for diversity: peace and prosperity for the regions where French is spoken." The following topics will be discussed: multilateralism, the challenges of security and the economy, the rule of law and democracy. The operation of the OIF will also be discussed, with the appointment of a Secretary-General. Moreover, the Prime Minister will have several bilateral meetings. It is very important that he attends the summit as a representative of the federal government. The French Community shall be represented by its Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u19	Mr President, allow me to reply in advance to your observation that I asked the question here yesterday, but at that time the Prime Minister was not present. He didn't reply to it afterwards either. That's why I asked the question again. Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but we already knew the composition of the organisation. Rather, it seems to me to be about a hidden agenda of the MR on the francophone. We have already seen a motion for a resolution before this House to make Brussels a host city in 2022. This proposal seemed neutral, but the resolution adopted unanimously by the French Community states that the MR wants to promote Brussels as a French-speaking city. That summit costs EUR 75 million and the French Community wants to transfer that account to the federal government. We cannot agree to that. I call on the Flemish parties not to fall into that trap. It would bear witness to a great deal of change if the Flemings still paid to promote Brussels as a French-speaking city. Brussels is and remains the capital of Flanders. I hope that's clear to you, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u20	Mr President, Minister, in the government statement we discovered the day before yesterday, not once was the word "woman" written or pronounced. My group leader, Jean-Marc Nollet, pointed out this yesterday and the Prime Minister replied: "When I talk about human rights, I am obviously also talking about women's rights." It's obvious. Moreover, we must say "human rights" rather than "human rights". Nevertheless, Minister, since the Weinstein scandal, all the hashtag reactions MeToo and the attention drawn to the fragility of women in various sectors including the employment sector in terms of harassment, we have also been highlighted our difficulties in meeting our objectives of equal pay. It is known that differences are due to working time, but there are also basic differences: 7% of the wage difference is unexplained, except that different wages are applied to men and women. A "gender" employment plan is announced for the coming months. How is it that this plan was not mentioned in the government statement, if it is one of the government's priorities? In addition, we are in the process of reforming the Company Code. And Mr. Geens is here. Through this reform, there are all the obligations of governance, of content in the accounting report, in the social report of companies. However, it is not explicitly stated that companies must ensure equality, identify problems of non-equality between workers and publish the recommendations that the company undertakes to achieve in order to achieve these objectives. Minister, I am not going to multiply the examples, but I find it really disappointing and also surprising that this government statement does not once mention your concern for women's rights, for gender equality, especially in the world of employment, when you still have several months of work ahead of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u21	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, first of all, I want to take this opportunity to thank you once again for your parliamentary work and for the many questions you have addressed to me in the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u22	Dear colleague, I have seen a red thread: your concern for the well-being of workers in their workplace. We clearly share the same concern. I hope that your successor will show the same interest in this matter. Mrs Gerkens, thank you and good continuation in your other tasks and in your political career. I'm coming to your question. The Prime Minister, as well as the government, is obviously very concerned about women's rights. In general, we can say that the level of participation of women in the labour market has increased significantly over the past 50 years. The situation has reversed, inter alia, as a result of social developments. However, it is necessary to keep a close eye on the position of women in the labour market and, as you have said, in general, in all legislation which falls within the competence of my colleagues, and especially Mr Koen Geens. Here are some themes I have taken to heart, as Minister of Employment, during this Parliament. Firstly, flexibility in the labour market, and above all the reconciliation between private and professional life. It's very important. We have approved measures concerning floating hours, occasional telework, etc. Secondly, gender neutrality, classification of functions and wage differentials. Thirdly, the mystery calls and we have approved a royal decree to improve the situation of women in companies. Mrs Gerkens, these are some examples that I hope you will have convinced that your concern is also the concern of the government. We are working in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u23	Minister, thank you. My concern will remain until I see the concrete achievements. You'll know that. I take note of the commitments and the fact that you are telling us that this is a concern for you. It's positive, but we need more than that. In June, during an exchange with the Prime Minister, we discussed the idea of setting up with Parliament what had been called the foundations of women's rights. He had expressed his support for this process. I really hope that in the coming months this momentum will be put in place. If I may, I would like to take this moment to say that this could be an opportunity to create in Parliament a way of working that allows for a real debate. What strikes me in evolution over the years is that the real parliamentary debate, the reflection, the exchange between the majority and the opposition have almost disappeared. We are in a majority against opposition logic. When we invite civil society actors, we do hearings. We give them the floor ten minutes. We listen to them, we make our comments and they respond. I really think that if we want to work in practice on the gender dimension in all our policies in a cross-cutting way, we need to be able to develop an interactive participatory work here in Parliament with representatives of this civil society, where parliamentarians agree to take the risk of thinking with citizens. They have to be self-confident to work. We could invent other things. We always apply the same recipes. We're not making up other things. I think an opening is possible and you could do a remarkable job. I hope to see it realized in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u24	Mrs Gerkens, allow me to associate myself with the minister's remarks and with the applause of the House that I interpret. First of all, we would like to thank you for all the work you have done in this House and in the committees. I will speak Dutch, because then the words come more from my heart than from my head. Despite our political differences, which are, of course, large, and which is a good thing, we have greatly appreciated the way in which you have taken up your mandate. From time to time it may not have been pleasant for those whom you have laid the fire on, but that is of course part of your mission. At your last plenary session, I would like to say, also on behalf of the Chamber, that the way in which you have recorded your commitment is certainly admirable. I wish you good luck and a bright future, which you will undoubtedly be waiting for. Again, merci.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u25	Minister, the Prime Minister recalled this Monday in his speech to the House: "Closer to home, there are still enormous challenges ahead. The implementation of Brexit is one of them at European level." The Brexit, Minister, is and will be a huge challenge for our country, all the more so if, as unfortunately many clues show, Brexit takes place in a chaotic manner, i.e. following a no deal or a failure of the separation agreement. I would remind you that the United Kingdom is our fourth largest trading partner. This represents 32 billion euros, 9% of our exports. In case of no deal, trade between the European Union and therefore Belgium and London would be carried out in accordance with WTO rules which could lead to tariffs and non-tariff barriers. Some studies also show that this failure could have a particular impact on Belgium just after Ireland, which has the most relations with the United Kingdom. More customs formalities will have a significant cost for both businesses and consumers. Deputy Prime Minister, France has just passed an enabling bill to legislate by order, which will give the government the opportunity to take the necessary steps to ensure that, by March 30, 2019, the fateful date, regardless of the scenario, France can be ready. Deputy Prime Minister, my questions are simple. First, what is the scenario? Will we be ready on March 30, 2019, in partnership with the Regions and in consultation with professional circles and businesses, to deal with the consequences of a Brexit no deal? Secondly, will our port customs infrastructure, you from Antwerp, be ready for the control on arrival in Belgium of goods coming from the United Kingdom in front of competitors like Le Havre or Rotterdam? Finally, I come to my third question. Are our companies well informed and well supervised by the administrations to respond to the commercial and legal consequences of Brexit and the no deal? I recall that in July, after your meeting with Michel Barnier, you promised to make available tools for businesses and to create a website from September onwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u26	Mr Flahaux, you are right to consider that the lack of agreement will have enormous negative consequences for the Belgian economy, in particular for our large, medium and small enterprises. Similarly, you are right to recall that the negotiations are entering their last week. Our economic interests are considerable, as you pointed out. I will begin by answering your third question. I have developed a "Brexit Impact Scan" (BIS) tool, especially for SMEs, to better inform them and prepare them if there is no agreement with the United Kingdom. Your second question concerns customs. My colleague Johan Van Overtveldt here and I have decided to increase the number of customs officers working in Antwerp as well as in other key areas, which could be affected by a lack of agreement with the United Kingdom. Your first question is particularly interesting. You highlighted the example of France. I am prepared to reflect on this and will ensure that the most favourable conditions are created for our businesses and for our citizens, with the aim of protecting our economy. We will discuss this idea within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u27	Mr President, Minister, I thank you for your awareness and the actions that you are taking together with the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Finance on this issue where everything is cross-cutting, if I may say so. It is true that every effort must be made to minimize the impact on our economy, in the absence of agreement, even if I dream, I do not hide, that a second referendum can be held and lead to a non-Brexit, because I believe that would be the best solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u28	Mr President, Minister, allow me to outline the current situation at post office. There are 300 open vacancies for postmen, 280 000 open overtime and 50 000 open leave days. This is just about this year. Every day, dozens of mail deliveries remain unexecuted, so people don't get their letters. Minister, the figures relating to the workload at bpost are hallucinating. You will have to acknowledge that the workload is enormous. Postmen don't get their rounds done anymore. They have to start early in the morning and work later in the evening. The delay is growing and the overtime cannot be recovered. This also has consequences for the customers of course. In my region, two distributions are systematically not carried out. Of course, that has an impact on the customers. People tell me, for example, that their birth cards are coming later and later to the recipients. The most distressing thing was when a family told me that their letters of mourning were delivered after the funeral. Yet this company is making huge profits. I ran the numbers once. In 2017, there was 291 million euros in profit. However, this profit does not benefit the employees or the customers, and is only for the shareholders. The shareholders were distributed 90% of the profits. For the Belgian government it was 132 million euros. I am therefore addressing you as the representative of the government, the main shareholder. On the one hand, you will therefore receive EUR 132 million for your budget, and on the other hand you will also see that there is a problem with overtime, the extortion of employees and the neglect of customers. Mr Minister, my question is very simple. What are you going to do, as a guardian minister and main shareholder of bpost, to restore normal working pressure and to ensure that customers are re-signated?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u29	Deputy Prime Minister, outdated management, insufficient training, increased workload and productivity, unpaid overtime, denied leave in disregard of workers' health and family life. The consequences: an increase in sick leave, spontaneous strikes and a reduction in the quality of service for the citizen. Today, the understaffed bpost is structural! The social situation at bpost is serious. The continuous deterioration of the working conditions of our factors is obvious. Never since the company began its modernization we have not seen such a situation. Given the mediocrity of working conditions, how is it surprising that today bpost has so much difficulty recruiting? The phenomenon was already very real in Flanders and it now affects Wallonia. Walloon municipalities no longer receive mail every day. The forcing to end the J+1 and the so-called sudden drop in mail volume are excuses on which one relies to serve one master: the stock market listing of the company. To the truth and to your greatest disappointment, this rating touches the bottom because of management wanderings. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, as you have recently confirmed, your will is to privatize bpost and as long as the action remains weak, you cannot justify a purely ideological sale. The facts are here. Although the stock market, bpost, thanks to its workers, remains one of the most successful postal companies in Europe. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, do you intend to intervene so that working conditions can again be acceptable to bpost staff? Are you finally going to put pressure on bpost management to assume its social and public service responsibilities? I already asked you in the summer. What message do you send today to workers by extending the period that allows the government to privatize bpost?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u30	Mr President, Mr Geerts, Mr Devin, there have indeed been some problems in certain mail and distribution centres, where there has been a lack of staff. As you say, Mr Devin, this has so far been the case in the north of the country, but we now see that the actions are spreading to other areas. The social situation at bpost is, for the moment, not ideal because of a shortage of staff. Bpost is aware of this problem and is trying to entrust mail distribution to factors on tours they do not know, causing them to have problems with stress. We also see very clearly a number of gaps in the organisation, which makes the workload particularly high for a large part of the staff. Bpost has already made a number of efforts, including participation in job fairs and intense collaboration with the VDAB, Forem and Actiris to try to recruit more people. There are hundreds of vacancies at bpost, while there is still a certain level of unemployment in our country. So it must be absolutely possible to lead more people to those jobs. I want to end with a call to bpost and the social partners. In fact, bpost and the social partners must be allies. They need to look together at how they can recruit people again. I would like to support social dialogue with a view to taking a number of measures. For example, it is perfectly possible to make recruitment procedures faster; to look at how staff placements in different areas with experienced staff can be carried out; and to examine recruitment conditions. For example, currently everyone is being asked for a B licence, while some factors are being distributed without a car. Measures could be taken in that direction. I would like to end by saying that I urge the management of bpost to reach out to the social partners and the staff of bpost. The staff are making very great efforts today, especially at this time when a great deal is being asked of our postmen. I would ask her to consider how we can resume a social dialogue as soon as possible, how we can speed up recruitment and make more efforts to ensure that vacancies, which lead to all the problems that have been mentioned, are filled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u31	Minister, four months ago I asked the same questions to the CEO at a hearing in the Chamber. I can only observe that in the course of those four months nothing has happened to improve the family life of the postmen and women. You are talking about a number of proposals that are being worked on, but nothing has actually been achieved in the field so far. However, these proposals were announced four months ago. Our group proposes to invest the dividend, worth 90% of the profits distributed, in order to train and recruit people and thus break the vicious circle in which the company is located.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u32	Deputy Prime Minister, I have heard your answer. You reach out to the unions and ask them to give you a good hand. We have been denouncing this situation for several months because in particular the CGSP Poste sector came to meet us to denounce what was happening in Flanders. This is a real problem that is now spreading in Wallonia. We have been drawing attention to the situation for months, and it is only now that you hear our call. Indeed, you could have held this kind of speech some time ago. In any case, you have changed your mind, as has been the case with the price of the stamp, and I am pleased with that. Indeed, it is high time to assume your responsibilities. During the summer, we were waiting for a firefighter and an arsonist introduced himself. You have to radically change your policy. A public enterprise is not at the service of the stock exchange, but of the citizens. You must be able to understand it. It must be an example especially when one knows that it employs so many low-skilled workers. It is also time for you to understand that a worker is not a corvetable accounting data at thank you. It is time for you to understand that, in order for customers, for the 11 million people who are waiting for their mail to be happy, workers must be able to benefit from working conditions that enable them to do their job well and to provide a good public service.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u33	Minister, I would like to talk to you about a problem that lives in our society. The people in the street do not understand at all how certain judgments of the criminal courts are made. I'd like to talk to you about the file on Merel De Prins' death rower. This is a 21-year-old boy who was convicted 18 times for driving without a driver's license, who never got his license, and who, after his fatal trip, committed a hit-and-run and fled to Hungary. Now he can be released early by turning his prison sentence into electronic surveillance. People don't understand that, Minister. After all, there is a fundamental difference between locking someone up in prison, hoping to get better there, and keeping someone under electronic supervision. That's a heavenly difference. In recent months, there have indeed been intertwined laws on the level of punishment, but as regards the period during which a person must serve his sentence effectively, it seems that, perhaps under pressure from the overcrowded prisons, other forms of punishment which people do not accept at all are the same punishment as was pronounced for the offence. Merel De Prins' parents were present at the discussions on the decision of the criminal court and they have a completely different impression of the perpetrator than is apparent from the reports of the various departments that want to keep him under electronic supervision. I went to those parents the same evening, and they told me not to see the boy better in any way, quite the contrary. Minister, are you going to take initiatives regarding the execution of the sentence? Are you going to try to ensure that people can stay in prison longer? We have now increased the level of punishment, but we have not increased the length of time they have to stay in prison. Are we going to do more to involve the families of the victims and the victims in a change in the execution of the sentence?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u34	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, you know how much I sympathise with the suffering of the Merel family. We received the parents in the cabinet at the time and then promised to increase the penalty. We have also introduced this early this year. A fatal-accident hit-and-run can in future lead to a penalty of nine years. We had previously amended the law on the medical care that the convicted person needed during his sentence, so that the temporary exemption for medical care during the sentence could be revoked at the request of the prosecution. That's what happened and the man's been locked up again. That was the result of a legal intervention in 2015. I'm telling you this to prove to you that we're not sitting still. With regard to the execution of the sentence, the Constitutional Court has recently partially abandoned the Lejeune Act. From now on, in the event of a recidivism, it is no longer permitted to use as a minimum two-thirds of the penalty period. A third is even a minimum; in the end, the criminal justice can go much further. The Constitutional Court took that decision. The government has sent a bill to the Council of State, which re-introduces the two thirds. So this is coming up soon. In this case, there was technically no repetition. Should this have been appropriate, the court could have made the same decision. I cannot go into that decision in any way, as you know. I can only say that the penalty rate today could have been much heavier. As far as medical care is concerned, we've already done everything we can. Over the next few weeks, I will go to the government with a preliminary draft law on the execution of sentences, which will try to remedy these kinds of cases. I know these are patches on a wooden leg for the people involved. I can only say that we are doing our utmost and that there is separation of powers in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. With regard to the execution of the sentence, we will look closely at two points, including the fact that the execution of the sentence is largely done in prison and not as it can be today. We will also ensure that the victims' families are better involved in the execution of the sentence as such.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u36	Colleagues, it's not football, it's justice that interests me. Minister, this very morning we learned from the press about the dramatic progress of a large-scale investigation led by the federal prosecutor's office. Some even speak of an earthquake in the world of football. This investigation, which began at the end of 2017, involves activities allegedly carried out by a criminal organization, as well as money laundering and private corruption. It follows on from a report by the sports fraud unit of the Federal Police - moreover, it is worth noting the work carried out - updating indications of suspicious financial transactions. During the investigation, it appeared that matches delivered during the 2017-2018 season could have been influenced. For this reason, forty-four searches were carried out throughout the country and thirteen were carried out abroad, mobilizing no less than one hundred and eighty-four police officers in Belgium alone. They targeted ten of the sixteen 1A division football clubs, as well as players' agents, club officials, a former lawyer, journalists and many others. Some of them were also questioned for a hearing. Given the popularity of this sport in our country, as well as the overall image it sends back to us, it seems to me that this matter is of great importance. Minister, my questions are as follows. In accordance with your duty as a reserve and, of course, the separation of powers, can you give us more details about the current situation? What about foreign searches? Which clubs are involved? Many Belgian 1A division clubs appear to be affected by this investigation. Can we talk at this stage about an organized system? Finally, what about clubs in the lower divisions? Could they also be involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u37	Mr Miller, thank you for your question. Even if I knew more than you, I would not be able to say more, since the press releases are very recent and also because the information that the prosecutor's office consents to deliver to us – given the secrecy of the investigation and the fact that the investigation is actually underway on the ground – is given to us, as you can imagine, in a particularly parsimony way. The federal investigation began in late 2017, following a report by the sports fraud unit of the federal police. She has uncovered indications of suspicious financial transactions in the world of football. Some sports agents allegedly organised these operations, which concealed from the Belgian authorities and other persons involved in these transactions commissions relating to transfers of players, salaries of players and coaches, as well as other payments. It is therefore, at first glance, a matter of concealment of commissions. During the survey, indications of possible influences on the 2017-2018 season matches appeared. Judicial investigation covers activities carried out within the framework of a criminal organization, money laundering and private corruption. The investigation was carried out by the Limburg Public Prosecutor's Office, but the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office resumed the investigation. Forty-four searches were carried out, as you say. Thirteen were performed abroad in countries such as France, Luxembourg, Cyprus, Montenegro, Serbia and Macedonia. I don't know which foreign football clubs could be involved. I can add, without thinking or even suggesting that there is any connection with gambling, that we have, in order to protect the integrity of sport and football in particular, a national platform in which the FPS Justice, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Federal Police, the Communities, the investigative services, the gambling regulators, the National Lottery and the sports sector are represented. Once again, I say it for informational purposes. I do not believe that there is any connection here with gambling, but I still wanted to tell you that we are attentive to all aspects of fraud in this case. Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Miller.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u38	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. I knew, in addressing this question to you, the difficulty of already being able to bring more concrete elements, although through your answer, some elements were given to us, but the question had to be asked given the nature of the sport. The image that football brings is a wonderful symbol for our young people throughout our society. It is a symbol of possible overcoming of social barriers. This is the image that every life can turn into a success. That is why, together with our group, we are very attentive to this issue because we cannot allow the doubt of corruption or occult commissions to obscure this image of the hope of the various football clubs in our country. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u39	Minister, whistleblowers are essential to our society. Indeed, the great progress made against major international tax fraud is not due to the states, Belgium or other countries, it is thanks to the various leaks and papers that followed the leaks of whistleblowers. What is the fate of these whistleblowers (Antoine Deltour, Edward Snowden, Denis Robert,...)? Medals? No! Dismissals, lawsuits, damages, prison terms even! What has Belgium done with regard to whistleblowers? In the Panama Papers commission, we saw that the right-wing majority had already begun to torpedo a little the recommendations on whistleblowers. And what do we see today? We see that the Open Vld ends, completes in bazooka what had been done in the Panama Papers commission. I now understand why, on Monday, the Prime Minister was so vague when he referred to the measures against tax evasion in the government's plan. Obviously, the Open Vld broke two measures that were in your draft bill, but you will confirm it to us. On the one hand, there is compensation for whistleblowers. Why compensate a whistleblower for dismissal? There is no reason to compensate him: C4 and why not prison? On the other hand, there are periodic penalty payments for those who obstruct a tax investigation. Finally, what should this government do? He should protect whistleblowers and attack fraudsters. But in reality, it does the opposite. He defends fraudsters and attacks whistleblowers. This was seen with the expanded criminal transaction in favour of fraudsters, the diamond tax and other measures. The whistleblowers, we're attacking them! They were attacked in July by voting here on a law on business secrecy, a law denounced by the Association of Professional Journalists because it endangers whistleblowers and journalists. The burden of proof lies with the whistleblowers. It is up to them to prove that they acted in the public interest. Minister, I have only one question: given your catastrophic record in the fight against tax fraud, are you going to, or not, re-introduce into your bill those two measures that the Open Vld has withdrawn?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u40	Mr President, Minister, this government has already taken numerous measures against fraud and money laundering. The modernisation of the banking register is an example of this, but I could give dozens. Mr Van Hees didn't remember them very well, I think. Apparently, there is a new package of measures on the government table. I would ask you to take this opportunity to explain what has already been decided. In the report of the Panama Commission there was a whistleblower scheme. That chapter fits perfectly into money laundering as a result of serious tax fraud. That recommendation was the result of the search for a balance between the interests of the whistleblower, the taxpayer and society. The Standard reports today that there appears to be no consensus in the government on this balance. Minister, are you going to continue the discussion in the government in order to implement the recommendations of the Panama Commission as far as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u41	Mr President, Minister, last November we approved in plenary the report containing 123 recommendations from the Panama Commission, after lengthy discussions both in plenary and in committee. The 123 clear recommendations were handed over to the government after the vote with the demand to work efficiently and join forces to step up the fight against tax fraud. One year after the adoption of the report of the Panama Commission, the Council of Ministers took a number of decisions on the fight against tax fraud, with the desire to implement a number of recommendations from the Panama Commission. I have seen in the budget notifications that there have been two moments, on 30 March 2018 and on 26 July 2018, when the Council of Ministers took a decision on the implementation of the work of the Panama Commission. The government has also linked a return to this, in the sense that this work was to generate an additional EUR 150 million in the budget this year. Despite the decisions taken in the Council of Ministers on this matter, it is not really clear at the moment what measures will be implemented and what measures the Council of Ministers intends to submit to Parliament. We are still waiting for a draft law on the implementation of these measures, which has already been decided twice in the Council of Ministers, hence my questions, Minister. CD&V insists on an efficient fight against tax fraud. In the recommendations of the Special Committee on Panama Papers, we have also highlighted four issues: firstly, more tax transparency and better anti-money laundering regulation; secondly, better collection and recovery procedures in our own country; thirdly, better arrangements with countries in the European Union to achieve more efficient exchange of information; and fourthly, the reporting of financial intermediaries to set up aggressive tax arrangements. This is also an important element that Europe is asking for in the fight against tax fraud. I have the following questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u42	Very soon, Mrs. Smaers, because it takes too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u43	Minister, what do you propose to Parliament now? What measures does the government intend to take effectively to implement the comprehensive report of the Panama Commission? What timing are you planning for the implementation and transposition of the DAC 6 Directive, which provides in particular for the transposition of the mandate disclosure directive?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u44	Thank you, Mrs Smaers. So the question is, what is the government going to do?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u45	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that a good two years ago this Parliament was full of indignation when the Panama Papers were leaked thanks to whistleblowers. As a result, a special committee has been set up which has worked for more than a year and made 132 recommendations and no 123 recommendations. The Minister for Finance then waited for these recommendations to be implemented. Last week the result of this government's work was presented to the government in a preliminary draft. I've got it right here with me. It has 16 articles. After resistance from the Open Vld, I understand, another 10 of those 16 articles have been deleted. Let me quote the title: 'Preliminary draft law on the implementation of parliamentary recommendations concerning the Panama Papers'. Six articles are left. Isn't that a joke, Minister? I hear Mr Klaps say here that he can list dozens of measures. Mr Smaers rightly says he is waiting for the follow-up, because so far there is not much to see. The only thing the government agrees on is the revenue. This will bring in EUR 150 million. For the rest, nothing. Mr Minister, my questions are actually very clear. Is it true that those two main recommendations................................................................................................................................................... Did this happen after explicit opposition from the Open Vld? I would like to make that clear. I would also like to know when you will finally come up with the measures to implement the recommendations of the Panama Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u46	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when new measures are put in place to tackle tax fraud, the liberals are immediately terrified. That's obvious. It used to be, and it still is today. The fear must be good with the liberals. They are, as more resources are at risk to combat tax fraud seriously, apparently afraid of hitting their electoral audience, especially in the next week. It has to be said, the Liberals have made their move home. Congratulations to Open Vld. You may change your name so often, but Open Vld looks more like the PVV of the past. The champagne corks will pop at the 1%. Just do, they say, as the slogan of the party says. What's it about now? As it has already been outlined here, we are talking, among other things, about better protection, a better status for the whistleblower. This is indeed very important if fraud mechanisms are to be exposed. Panama Papers, Swissleaks, Luxleaks, without whistleblowers, those files would have come up harder. Apparently there is also a whistleblower in the government or in the cabinet, which is a good thing, because otherwise we would not have found out what is going on either. We need to protect whistleblowers so they can come out with their testimony. Whistleblowers are in a dangerous situation. The employer doesn't like them. That is why the whistleblower must be protected. Career opportunities can be lost or fired. That is why the Panama Commission has made recommendations for better protection of whistleblowers. As an additional protection for the whistleblower who is no longer able to work with his fraudulent employer, the whistleblower would receive compensation for damage suffered. That was in the recommendations and just that element was taken out of the proposed legislative text under pressure from the liberal lobby. Minister, according to your Liberal colleagues, you would have read the committee's recommendations selectively. Have you read it selectively? In particular, will the government effectively accept all the recommendations of the Panama Commission for its bill? That's essential. Finally, how will you achieve the EUR 150 million in revenue from the fight against tax fraud if some of the measures are not included in the draft law by the sabotage of the liberals?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u47	In the meantime, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is about a year since Parliament adopted the report of the Panama Commission. It was a large report, which involved much more than just the problems of the Panama Papers. It considered all aspects of the fight against tax fraud and identified a number of measures to be taken. Colleagues, you're mistaken about the enemy. When it comes to the fight against tax fraud, Parliament and the Minister of Finance have a partner to us. In fact, we believe that we really must fight against tax evasion and tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u48	Then show it to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u49	When we look at the figures, ladies and gentlemen, we see that the government is doing better than all the previous ones. At the end of the legislature, the fight against tax fraud will have generated around EUR 1 billion. That we should not sit still and that fraudsters are resourceful, we are aware of that. That is why a number of recommendations had to be implemented. If I am well informed, it is a decision of the government, then the government has also taken a number of measures: no more rulings with companies in tax havens, more effectively detecting hidden capital through data exchange, not only levying fines, but actually collecting them. That is indeed what we need to do, because then we can give the money back to those who work, save and ultimately pay their taxes correctly year in, year in and day out. We support a targeted approach with fair measures, fair letters and tariffs. Let's be clear. Mr Minister, please explain to Parliament what the government has now decided. It is indeed a government decision and what is still on the table today, because it has not yet been sufficiently developed. I'm talking about the whistleblower scheme in that regard. I have often heard populist proposals here, such as the abolition of investigators in the fight against the transmigrants. Today it appears that they are the only ones who can solve the problem, because they are at the root, namely trafficking in human beings. In this context too, we want a fair approach with regard to the rights of the defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u50	As we have known since the beginning of the legislature, in the fight against tax fraud, you are the lukewarm water minister. We didn't see much coming. Let us remember: we had lost a year with Mrs. Sleurs. You took over the case file. We were going to see what we were going to see. We haven't seen much. When you took measures, allegedly to raise $500 billion, we realized that they were worth ten times less. In short, in the field of combating tax fraud, it cannot be said that your record is impressive. I see you're arguing within the government about the legal status of whistleblowers. The Open Vld, as he did during the Panama Papers Commission, once again blocks what could be a beginning of progress. That's your problem. We will see the texts when the time comes. What interests me is to see what remains of the report of the Committee of Inquiry. Not the sweetened report, but the experts' report. I would like to know whether you intend to propose to Parliament an increased role for the National Bank in bank investigations into the fight against tax fraud. I would like to know if you are going to strengthen the Special Inspectorate of Taxes, as the experts proposed, and if you are going to re-establish the OCDFO (Central Office for Combating Organized Economic and Financial Crime) which has been dismembered by your government. I would also like to know whether we can move towards a better definition of tax haven, with the criterion of the tax actually paid. Above all, will you follow what the experts proposed on the obligation to report all transactions to a tax haven, and not only those with an amount of more than 100 000 euros? That's what I want to know. Are you going to pursue your lukewarm water policy or are you finally going to propose a real plan to combat tax fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u51	Mr President, I have heard several interpleans allusion to that article that was published in the Flemish quality newspaper this morning. I was shocked when I saw that article, for two things. First of all, the title: "Whistleblower arrangement fucked." It is very strange, because on 9 November last year, this government submitted to this plenary a draft law, which, moreover, was adopted, which specifically regulates the status of whistleblowers. On 28 December 2017, the law was effectively published in the Belgian Official Journal. So there's nothing fucked up. This government has arranged the whistleblower's statute. However, it seems prudent not to introduce such a system solely within the tax framework. The next few months will therefore be used to study whether a system with a wider scope can be put in place. I'll give you the second reason I looked up when I read the article this morning. It is very regrettable that this article, which was supposedly devoted to the new measures taken by the government in the field of tax fraud, did not deal in any way with all the other measures taken, but merely focused on those two aspects which are now being discussed. However, the journalist in question was perfectly aware of the whole package of measures. It was explained to him in a long and broad way. Indeed, on Friday we again adopted a whole package of anti-fraud measures. In the context of the decisions taken by this government, this is the fourth package. The main measures taken are as follows: Firstly, it has been legally established that the tax authority can no longer issue rulings to companies operating in tax havens. That makes sense, which makes sense, but it is only this government that is taking the step to block this. Previous governments have been passively watching this. Secondly, international data exchange shows that hundreds of thousands of taxpayers do not report their external accounts or foreign life insurance. It was decided to impose additional sanctions in the event of non-declaration. Thirdly, black capital, which is not declared by regularisation and which the tax authority is no longer able to handle due to limitation periods, will be dealt with by the Justice Department. The Justice Department will take additional initiatives in this regard. In the past, Mr Vanvelthoven, you know very well, black capital was left untouched. Fourthly, the exchange of data under the UBO register is being extended to countries other than the EU. Fifth, in cases involving tax havens constructions, the investigation period is extended to ten years. Very important. Sixth, residential fraud is dealt with by the crossing of international data with the National Register. Seventh, stock options from a foreign parent company must be declared mandatory. I could go on like this for a while. I could also refer once again to the one-to-one replacement in control tasks that have already been decided by the government and will be able to be exercised in a much better-equipped environment in terms of computer science than before. I dare to say that we have made quite a catch-up in the fight against fraud in comparison with the past, a statement on which I have, moreover, heard many of the same views in various media this morning. The results prove that, too. It is true that we are making maximum use of the international exchange of information, which has finally begun. Mr Van Hees, we know what your alternative is. We know only too well how you, perhaps even personally, want to take matters into your own hands. You would like to organize raids in all financial institutions and businesses. I am sorry for you, but this rather Venezuelan approach is not my style, and certainly not my conception of the rule of law and how it should work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answer. It's illuminating, especially the last part. Indeed, it is because you are a friend of the rich, of the capitalists, that you spare them all their frauds, and we know that they are specialists in fraud. You confirm that you have effectively removed the only two somewhat ambitious measures from your plan under pressure from the Open Vld. By chance of a calendar, the PTB is now releasing its top 50 companies that benefit from the biggest tax gifts in Belgium. The number 1 of this list also refers us to the Open Vld, since it is Sofina, the holding company of the Boël family, the fifteenth fortune of Belgium. Who is on the board of directors? Guy Verhofstadt. He receives 170,000 euros a year to sit. Sofina makes 1 billion euros in profits and pays 0.05% tax. In addition, it finds itself in tax havens. So our Liberal friends are not likely to be whistleblowers. They are instead the towel racks of billionaires who, not content to take advantage of the Belgian tax system, will still hide their snag in tax havens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u53	Mr Van Hees, you might want to read some publications other than those of your study service, so that you may be better informed. I refer to an article in Knack today, which completely undermines the study you are talking about. Your study doesn't add up. Thank you, Minister, for your explanation of another package of anti-fraud measures. We are going step by step far beyond any previous government. Our group also fully supports the recommendations of the Panama Commission, with respect for the interests of all those involved in the enforcement of tax legislation. Finally, I would like to commend you on your hat, because you are coming up with the measures so quickly, because the implementation of the measures requested by the previous committee of inquiry on major tax fraud cases has been delayed for years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have announced a number of measures, and we look forward with great expectation to dealing with this draft here in the Chamber, so that we can effectively assess the various measures on their merits. It is true that the government has already taken many steps after the report on the Panama Papers, but also before. I think about the caiman tax, among other things. It did not come under the previous government, but under the current government and was also strengthened as a result of the Panama Leaks. A great deal of action is therefore being taken and steps taken. However, the work is not yet finished. Many of the recommendations contained in the report by the Panama Commission still need to be implemented. Minister, this term of office is still a few months away, and hopefully these measures will also be implemented. Mr Van Cauter, we are definitely in favour of a very good and purposeful collection. It would be best for the tax administration to work with respect for the principle of trust in relation to tax obligations. I'd rather we lower taxes even further. If everyone pays their fair tax, calculated on the basis of an open and transparent data exchange, correctly, then we will indeed be able to achieve that objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u55	Minister, you claim that the whistleblower system already exists. But you did put them in your preliminary draft, Chapter 2 of Title 3 and went to the government with it. So either it exists and you shouldn't have gone to the government with the adjustments, or you shouldn't have registered them here. Mr Minister, what I am saying is that there is a chapter on whistleblower rules in your preliminary draft. So do not come here to Parliament and say that it has existed for a long time or ask what we are talking about here. You yourself wrote them in your preliminary draft. That piece has been deleted. I asked why. I don't know. Do I understand that this is because Open Vld is against it? It wouldn't have worked out enough. You've had a year. You've been able to work everything out, but that part of it isn't worked out. Then there are the sanctions to encourage taxpayers to participate in a tax investigation. That was an important recommendation from the Panama Commission and it was unanimously accepted, also by Open Vld. Now that measure for Open Vld should be deleted. Why? I didn't hear you mention it to anyone at Open Vld. You underline the importance of international data exchange. That's absolutely true. What I still do not understand is that we do not yet get the international exchange of information in our country organised in national law. The government continues to oppose this, with Open Vld in its head. So do not fight tax fraud; this is a fight against tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u56	Minister, your answer was partly in addition to the question. The questions were about the fact that certain parts of the bill would have been deleted, under pressure from the liberals, it is said. You do not answer that question. In any case, it is clear that some of the essential recommendations of the Panama Commission will not be included in the draft law and that it has either been completely abolished or postponed. We also need to look at the Committee of Inquiry into Fiscal Fraud of the past. At that time, too, many measures were never implemented. What's happening here is typical of the current government. When it comes to getting the small man, the measures and controls can't be hard enough and fast enough, but when it comes to tackling tax fraud for an amount of 20 billion euros a year, Open Vld pawns, the N-VA folds and is looking at it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u57	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your detailed reply and also for the clarification that was necessary. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, we are not opposed to the whistleblower regime and the enlargement that is on the table today, as I indicated in my question. We just want a proportional arrangement to be put on the table that cannot lead to criminal offences. We want an arrangement that can be certain that the data provided has not been manipulated and that would not in other words affect innocent citizens who have correctly reported them. It is the work of the current government to further develop this arrangement. Minister, if I have understood you correctly, that will also be the case. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, the results show that the fight against tax fraud has never been so good. The fact that EUR 1 billion can be effectively returned in this way is indeed what we need to do to citizens who pay their taxes correctly. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, we will certainly not get there with populist claims. I have heard in the hemisphere that we in this country know the miracle solution, not the capital tax, but the inheritance tax. In three generations we tax a straight line legacy with a rate of 27 percent. Fortunately, we have reduced the attack rate for uncles and aunts by 10%, but is still 55% today. But what am I in opposition to? We don't have taxes. She's too little. What do I hear from the members of the PS about the fight against tax fraud? She's too low and too inadequate. Colleagues, look at the figures and the reality. Then you know it's okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u58	Mr President, Minister, do you know how much the citizen is paying a litre of diesel or gasoline at the pump today? Do you know how much households pay for their electricity? The citizens know, Minister, that it is because you have increased taxes that they pay more for their fuel or electricity. And what they do not understand, that they do not admit, is that while they pay their taxes, a number of "big fish", big fraudsters hidden in tax havens do not pay their taxes, because of your inability to put on the table a real plan to fight fraud. That's what people don't understand and admit! It took you four years to come with a plan. We've been visibly told of measuring instruments. Let me tell you, Minister, that it did not take you four years to increase the VAT on electricity; it did not take you four years to increase the excise duty, diesel taxes; it did not take you four years to cut into health care, in short, to make the population pay while some were sleeping quietly in tax havens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u59	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the International Monetary Fund published an important report on the growing debt of families, businesses and public authorities worldwide. We are now reaching a record level of 250 % of gross domestic product, which is a remarkable increase compared to ten years ago. This has to do with the banking crisis, as the government has had to borrow a lot, and also with the low interest rates. A few weeks ago, the National Bank also published an important report, which was already discussed in the Committee on Budgetary Control, which shows that Belgian families have experienced an enormous increase in debt. Many families, partly due to the current low interest rates, have taken out loans. However, if growth slows down in the following years and unemployment rises, there will be a problem of reimbursement. The National Bank has already twice introduced capital buffers on mortgage loans, but in its quarterly journal the National Bank writes that more needs to be done. Mr Minister, is the government considering additional measures in view of the increasing indebtedness of families?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Van Rompuy, what the IMF launched yesterday, I would indeed describe as a sort of muffled cry, ten years after the financial crisis, on which everyone agrees that debt building was an important part of what happened then. At that time, we were at 210 % of GDP in debt worldwide, and now, ten years later, we have to say that we are at 250 % worldwide. So there has not really come much of the change in this trend that was so envisaged at the time. You pointed out the consequences of the financial crisis. The continuous low interest rates have certainly contributed to this situation. For Belgium, however, I would like to point out that the government, especially in recent years, has fallen from 107 % to 2018, or even almost 108 % of debt GDP, to less than 102 %. At least that goes against that trend. As far as families and businesses are concerned, there is indeed a marked increase. I have, like you, carefully reviewed the recent publication of the National Bank's Economic Journal and discussed it with the people of the National Bank. At the moment it is the role of the National Bank and it has been well-recorded to point out a potentially dangerous trend. They follow things closely and we discuss them together. What is particularly important in this context is that we see a marked increase in disposable income, especially this year at 1.8 % and last year at 1.2 %. In any case, this puts us above trend growth. This means that there is also an additional buffer against the increase in debt, as a result of the increase in disposable income, but it goes without saying, especially in the area of mortgage loans, that we must and will be alert to support for the necessary collective measures when the National Bank considers it necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The IMF's statistics show that we actually have a situation in which we are worried about the top five in terms of debt to government, companies and families. Only Canada and China lead us. All other countries, Germany, the Netherlands, Japan, are much lower. Credits from households are even more dangerous, because repayment capacity depends on purchasing power and employment. The National Bank has also acted as a deterrent to the banks, because it is the banks that lend the mortgage loans. They are asking for additional capital buffers, but it is good that you, as Minister of Finance, look at this problem together with the National Bank, because from the moment a number of developments occur in the area of interest rates and the economy, one can suddenly face a situation in the banking sector as in 2008.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u62	Minister, there have been two twists in this saga on the renewal of our combat aircraft. On Monday, a thorough investigation by the Knack confirmed what many of the opposition have long suspected: the process of acquiring new hunters is biased. The Knack doesn't hesitate to say it's rigged! The invitation to tender and the specifications would have been adapted so that the latter would favour the American F-35. There is a series of pieces that are being unveiled and that show that we have tried to ensure that we cannot detect this favouritism by using language elements that could hardly be understood, particularly by Parliament. Every time I questioned you, saying that this procedure was opaque and not objective, you protested. Today, I understand better why, of the five manufacturers that had been approached, only two complied with the RfGP, one came out and two gave up their offer altogether. At the same time, the same day, the Prime Minister told us in his statement that a decision would be made before the end of the legislature for military purchases. So I understood that there would be no decision until October 14 on the acquisition of these aircraft. This is a further postponement of the decision, which I welcome. I don't think it would have been reasonable to decide now. Minister, given these revelations of the Knack, given that we are out of the deadline imposed by the US ambassador – according to him, the conditions no longer apply after October 14 – is it not time to put this procedure down? Isn't it time to finally have a call for tenders that meets all of our interests today? Is this new guideline reasonable? We are gradually returning to the election period and we know the very strong tensions within your government about how to replace our fighter planes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u63	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, ladies and gentlemen, as said last week, the small Council of Ministers decided to ask the United States about the validity of their offer, which is supposed to expire on 14 October. This has been done. We are waiting for their response. In the context of the application of Article 346 of the Treaty of the European Union, the government has defined the essential security interests. Each investment programme included in the military programming law is coordinated with the SPF Economy and respect for Belgium's essential security interests is taken into account in the evaluation criteria of the F-16 replacement programme. Mr Dallemagne, the RfGP has been placed on my website, accessible to the whole world. There's no evidence that he'd be biased. Who did this before? No one! Several countries have come to see us and have expressed interest in our GFR and the related evaluation procedure. There have been hours of discussion in Parliament's Defence Committee. State agents, candidates for the market, have come to explain their views. Several experts were reviewed. I note that a year and a half after its publication and a week before the local elections, Knack sees it as a rigged file. A week before the election! I have always been and remain convinced that this is not the case, and I see no evidence of this, for any investment programme! The government is continuing its work on this important issue for the future of Defence, but above all for the safety of our fellow citizens and for our soldiers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u64	Mr. Minister of Defence, for my part, I have read this file and I have seen that some terms have indeed been made up. Instead of talking to us about stealth, we were talking about NATO criteria for choosing planes, without telling us, in Parliament, that we were referring to aircraft stealth. We can also question the need for Belgium to have stealthy planes in relation to the missions that we are carrying out today. So I still have the impression, Mr Minister, and it is an impression that I have had from the beginning through this specification, that Parliament has been rolled into flour, that it is absolutely not a transparent and objective procedure. I asked you, but you didn't answer that question. Since we're getting out of this American-intended deadline, you're telling us that you asked the Americans again, but de facto, we come out of the terms in which the Americans gave their offer. If they extend it, other competitors could probably argue that this offer is no longer the same as the offer that was originally submitted and they could probably break the procedure. I ask you, minister, to reopen this offer, to reopen our call for aircraft that could meet today's challenges, geostrategic, industrial and budgetary issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u65	Minister, now that the government has regained Parliament's confidence, I believe that it is time to continue monitoring the dossiers and pursue progress. I address you as the Minister responsible for our railway companies, but you are also actually responsible for 800 000 train passengers a day. What do we see at our railway companies? Unfortunately, the punctuality figures are very bad. That's bad for the traveler. What else do we see? After a long period of falling numbers of copper thefts have been in the elevator again for a short time. The copper thefts have immense consequences for rail traffic and its punctuality. They cause delays, diversions and abolitions of trains. Of course, the reputation of our railway companies is also affected. The many copper thefts cost society a lot of money, because I read in the newspaper in September that it would be two million euros a month. That's a huge amount of money. Especially the region around Liège and Hainaut seems to be plagued by copper thefts. From June to September this year it would be 116 cases. In four months time, there are already more than in the whole year 2017. In the past, Infrabel has undertaken with some success an action plan to reduce the number of copper thefts, which has had an effect, but now that a new wave seems to arise, I believe that a new action plan is needed, in the interests of the traveller. I call on our railway companies and you, Minister, to have a greater sense of responsibility for punctuality. In fact, I feel that too much and too easily the causes of the delays are categorized under 'thirds'. Any action the companies themselves can take must also be taken to increase punctuality. That is why I have the following specific questions about the buyer thefts. What's the exact impact on the punctuality of all those copper thefts? What are the financial and operational consequences for our railways? What measures are being taken by the railways themselves to stop this new wave of copper thefts? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u66	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, this is not a new phenomenon. Already in 2012 and early 2013, a significant increase in cable thefts was observed. After a peak of the cable thefts in 2012, Infrabel worked on a strategy to combat this form of vandalism efficiently. The national action plan against cable thefts, launched in mid-2013, consisted of cooperation with the various actors: Infrastructure, Home Affairs, Justice and so on. The master plan became a success since cable thefts had become a marginal phenomenon in 2017, according to Infrabel. Unfortunately, the cable thefts have been on the rise again for several months. I take advantage of your request to calculate the cable thefts over the last few years. However, since the beginning of this summer, Infrabel has once again been plagued by a wave of cable thefts. Between January and May we registered 37 cable thefts. In the period June to September, 116 incidents have already taken place. The number of minutes delay also speaks volumes: from 14 680 minutes in 2014 they had fallen back to 3 200 minutes in 2015, but in 2018 after only nine months we are already at 19 919 minutes. That's three hours late a day for train traffic. Given the scale of the impact on daily punctuality, I believe that it has become a focus for those actors who had already worked together in 2013. An ad hoc working group has already met in order to find and implement solutions to counter such thefts. The working group includes the main interested parties in the dossier, in particular Infrabel, the police, SNCB and Securail. The master plan of May 2013 has paid off. I asked that the dynamics of the 2013 master plan be reactivated with the support of my colleagues from the Interior and Justice Department and their services.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u67	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It is a good thing that this working group is being restarted. We saw in 2013 that the Action Plan was successful. The copper thefts were reduced to a minimum. Once again, we must do everything possible to ensure that copper thefts are stopped. I call on you to urge the railway companies to take their responsibility and do all they can in the fight against the copper thefts. It is all too easy to say as a company that the delays are due to third parties. They must take action to reduce this factor as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u68	Mr President, Minister, you know that the WHO has just issued new recommendations on noise pollution around airports. It places a great deal of emphasis on aircraft-related noise pollution. WHO has made recommendations more stringent than before because it has been able to measure, through in-depth studies, that the impact on the health of residents is far more serious than originally imagined. For example, there is an impact on mental health, cardiovascular health, sleep with significant performance consequences and social and economic consequences. The issue of standards, including those issued by the Brussels Region, which are not respected by the airport has already been discussed at length, although they are, in a way, more favourable than the new WHO standards. On several occasions, BIAC's boss was also heard to declare that the end of tolerance with respect to the exceedance of these wind standards was unacceptable to him. Minister, how and when are you going, at last, to take the quality of life of the residents very seriously into consideration? How are you going to ensure that the WHO standards that are actually linked to serious health problems – this does not concern the Brussels Region, the Flemish Brabant and the Walloon Brabant – are finally applied. No later than last Saturday, a large carrier aircraft, a Kalitta, landed on Runway 01 at 11:15 p.m. with 85 decibels of landing noise, which corresponds to sixteen times the WHO noise standard. Minister, when will we stop seeing planes that are real soundbins landing in Zaventem? You know that Schiphol has adopted much stricter standards about landings. When will we ban, for example, the landing and take-off of Boeing 747-400 aircraft on our airport runways?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u69	Minister, what the WHO is reminding us today, many Brusselsers know this because they live and undergo it on a daily basis. The overflight of Brussels is bad for public health. Brusselsers who undergo this overflight, landings and untimely take-off are more likely than others to be pregnant. Residents are more likely to suffer from sleep disorders and cardiovascular disorders. The Brussels people who live along the canal, like me, know it very well. These robberies not only destroy their quality of life, but also their own health and that of their children. Four years ago I asked you to act and you did absolutely nothing. Yet, Minister, the measures are easy to take. The first measure is the prolongation of the night, from 10 p.m. to 7 p.m. The European night is not complicated to set up. You can do it immediately and you don't. In addition, you do not even respect your government statement. It states that an independent institute, an independent supervisory authority, should be established to control noise pollution. Nothing's done. You don't even respect your own words, minister. On July 4, 2017, you declared in committee that it was "absolutely essential to clarify the wind standards applied by Belgocontrol for the choice of runways". It was after an audit you asked for. "Absolutely indispensable", to avoid this confusion and to stop the overflight of Brussels. I see that nothing is done today either. Minister, my question is simple. It is always the same: when are you going to act, with this government, to relieve the bruxellois, their health and the health of their children?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, I have of course taken note of the release last night of the new WHO recommendations on nuisances in the environment, particularly those concerning noise, air and other nuisances. I note that, in addition to air noise, the organisation notes that nuisances related to road traffic, train traffic, but also those emitted by wind turbines, can be considered to pose the same health risks. It would be a mistake or a political manoeuvre to focus the debate on air pollution alone. It would also be a mistake not to include these new elements in the ongoing work on the issue of the Brussels overflight. Therefore, everyone, in his or her areas of responsibility, will have to take this new situation into account. This does not apply only to Belgium, of course. In Belgium, through their environmental skills, the Regions are likely to have to refine their action plan to reduce noise pollution, and in particular the limits. As far as I am concerned, and as part of the impact study conducted by the ENVISA study office on the overview file, I will review these new recommendations with my firm and administration. I will inform the study office, if not already, of this new WHO recommendation and ask it to include this new element in its study and in the alternatives it will have to present. This is a further change in the framework within which the balanced and structural solution must be found. This will not affect my determination to work in the logical order of things, to build a balanced, structural global solution to this problem of overflight. The basis for such a solution is, firstly, a rational and independent analysis and, secondly, a wide-ranging consultation with representatives of local residents, local and regional authorities and airport operators is to be organised within the framework of the solutions studied. This process is under way through the work of the ENVISA study office, which is in contact with the relevant actors (regions, associations of local residents, etc.).This was welcomed yesterday at a large meeting here in Brussels, where more than 250 people were present. It is therefore not necessary to reverse priorities in order to deal with this 20-year-old problem. Timing should not take precedence over the method. The results of the impact study are expected by March 2019. As I have always said, I prefer a good study in March, on which a balanced and structural global solution can be found, rather than a sloppy study or a political decision that only makes things worse than appease them and find balanced solutions. Finally, I remain convinced that the global solution requires the creation of an independent supervisory authority – but independence must be absolute, not like some who are already trying to tell ENVISA what to do! – which will enable compliance with the relevant rules as well as transparency in the communication of all stakeholders. In this context, I would like to point out that the mediation service currently provides important, itinerant and useful information to residents. I invite you to read its synthesis, which appeared in a great Brussels daily newspaper a month and a week ago, to give you an idea of the philosophy underlying all the positions taken by each other, regardless of the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u71	Mr Minister, things are clear: you have done nothing and you are announcing that you will do nothing! March 2019, let's be good, that means you won't do anything! It is not in April 2019 that you will make the decisions, fifteen days before the elections! Even in your majority, we laugh at the answer you are delivering today, minister! You will do nothing, including in relation to your declaration of government, including your promises of quick win following your statement a year ago. You will do absolutely nothing! You will not even do anything to ensure that the airport operating licence – section 34 requires the airport to meet noise standards – is respected. J'en prends acte. This seems extremely serious to me for the health of the residents. As you know, we meet every day people who are seriously affected by the misuse of the tracks in Brussels. You won't react to it. I regret it bitterly. We lost five years in processing the airport file, while we could have relieved the residents. It is time for you to state clearly, since you have done so indirectly today, that you and the government have been sitting on this issue for five years. Citizens need to know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u72	Minister, as you've used to in many of your files, you're drowning the fish. I ask you one thing: at last listen to the Brussels. So you'll hear they're sick of it. Most of all, they've had enough of the MR's promises. Indeed, in 2014, he had promised all Brusselsers that he would put an end to the overflight of the capital. But you have been incapacitated – you, Messrs. Michel and Reynders – to relieve the bruxellois. Worse, you've reinforced this overflight! This failure, your inaction over the last four years, is not you or your smile that will pay for it; it is the Brussels people and their health. Their children will pay for it for a long time, as the WHO said. It is unworthy of managing a case, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-10-54-plenair-ip250x.u73	End of oral questions and our work. I wish you all an excellent weekend. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 18 October 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 18 October 2018, at 2.15 p.m.
