ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u1	Mr President, Minister, the ASTRID network – an operator supposed to enable the police, firefighters and rescue services to communicate effectively – had been severely challenged during the attacks in Brussels. Several shortcomings had been detected, which has since justified the adoption of an investment plan to improve its functioning on the ground. Although emergency communications have been strengthened, mainly in Brussels, not all local police areas are housed in the same sign. Today, some of them are still confronted with coucacs on the ground and express their concerns. In the Mons area, for example, it is pointed out that the ASTRID network dates from 2001 and that within ten years the current model will be obsolete if it is not reviewed. It is my responsibility that new frequencies will be absolutely necessary to meet the needs of modern communication. Within this framework, the expectations of police services in local areas are high. They want to know your strategy in order to have as modern a network as possible and a block of frequencies as strong as possible. What do you say to them, minister? Will the ASTRID model as it is now evolve? If so, in what sense? How do you plan to expand the frequency capacity of the ASTRID network in local police areas for the coming years? Is a hybrid model, combining stronger collaboration between security services and private telephone operators, preferred? If so, can we know the state of the negotiations with the latter?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u2	Mr Thiébaut, the implementation of the ASTRID investment plan continues unabated: renewal of the radio network and dispatching infrastructure; development of new services. Work on the renewal of the radio network infrastructure has been completed. In the coming months, ASTRID will equip the 600 relay antennas with new technologies. This will allow for better communications, better reach and a higher number of communications. Its capacity will therefore be increased. With regard to the increase in network capacity, capacity building on several relay antennas in the Brussels Region was finalized in November 2016. This capability can be mobilised in major incidents. In concrete terms, this means that the network in question is now better able to cope with increased radio traffic in crisis situations. For crisis capacity in Brussels, ASTRID may temporarily use a series of additional Defence radio frequencies. In terms of the capacity of the ASTRID radio network in the different provinces, additional relay antennas or capacity will be added at certain sites defined as priority sites such as Seveso sites, airports, major cities, etc. These sites are defined by the various representatives of the relief and security services, and the Crisis Centre. The relay antennas will be equipped with additional transmitters. ASTRID is in consultation with the municipalities concerned and initial work has begun. In addition, a real-time monitoring tool for the capacity of the radio network is in place to monitor the communication situation closely. This tool will enable the additional capacity installed in the network. As regards the situation of the ASTRID network in the Montoise region, the coverage is optimal. In recent weeks, the ASTRID Service Centre has not received any complaints from police areas in the region. As part of the ASTRID investment plan, an additional relay antenna will be installed in Stambruges (Beloeil). This will further increase the quality of service in the region. ASTRID is one of the pioneers of TETRA communication, the international communication standard for relief and security services. Today, a new evolution is under way. First, all components of the TETRA network, which have been in operation for about 15 years, will be replaced. Moreover, as the technological evolution of the telecommunications world is constantly accelerating, ASTRID intends to follow this evolution and guide it to the benefit of its users. Innovation concerns the integration of new sources of information such as photos, videos, sensor data, e-calls, app 112, etc. But this also requires reflection on other organizational and partnership models. New services are also planned, via commercial operators. As a centre of innovation and expertise, ASTRID is looking for new services that increase the performance of mobile communications security and thus improve the operational functioning of rescue services. In the past, 85 % of the information with which the rescue and security services carried out their tasks was based on voice communication via the ASTRID radio network. Since then, the exchange of data, often in the form of photos or video images, has rapidly gained ground. This requires a large bandwidth. It was therefore first necessary to create Blue Light Mobile. Proposed since 2014, these services use the three national business networks, 3G, 4G, for voice and data. This offer is complementary to the TETRA radio network. By means of a single SIM card, the user has access to the networks of the three commercial operators in Belgium and to the networks of neighbouring countries in a secure environment. The police and relief services thus have the best coverage throughout the country and in the border regions. Like TETRA technology, ASTRID played a pioneering role with the launch of Blue Light Mobile. Some 2,000 Blue Light Mobile SIM cards have been activated to date and activations are ongoing. Indeed, the desire is to increase this number to reach 6,000 SIM cards. The attacks of March 2016 led us to question the need for additional frequencies. ASTRID has therefore decided to increase the capacity of several relay antennas. To this end, ASTRID needs additional frequencies. If ASTRID is to continue to support technological developments for long-term critical communications, frequencies are also needed for broadband data (approximately 700 megahertz). The TETRA-ASTRID network currently uses the civil band from 410 to 430 megahertz. If the authorities sell part of this spectrum to commercial operators, ASTRID strongly insists that a sufficient portion be reserved for vital communications of rescue and security services and that strict conditions be guaranteed so that the commercial networks using this spectrum provide sufficient security for critical communications. In case ASTRID is refused additional frequencies, ASTRID insists on two essential points. On the one hand, the features specific to critical communications of rescue services, including group communication, must be supported by the three existing commercial operators. On the other hand, priority and preemptive features – these are the priority communications from rescue services to the general public – must also be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u3	Minister, thank you for your fairly comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u4	Mr President, Minister, this is the subject of regular debate in this committee. Among the key objectives of your vision of the police is the creation of the famous DAB, whose staff of 1,600 are expected to perform a series of security tasks for which the federal police regularly use local police areas. The time is passing and the horizon does not seem clear as to the timetable according to which you intend to set up this body, while it must also allow some civil protection workers to reconvert when the barracks are closed. Minister, my question is simple. Where are you in the setting up of this body? Have trade union agreements been concluded with regard to the FPS Justice Security Corps? As far as the agents are concerned, have any other bodies been called on to join the DAB? What are your status with the recruitment of required personnel? According to what timetable do you envisage the effective implementation of this unit?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u5	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, the first candidates, 58 people, started their training on 1 March and will be operational on 1 September next. The training lasts six months. The other training courses started in April, May and June. Each month, training starts. The next training will begin in September after the summer holidays. To date, 183 aspiring students have entered training for six months: 85 at the Jumet federal campus, 33 at the Vottem federal campus, 40 at the Ghent federal campus and 25 at the Wilrijk federal campus. In response to your second question, the draft texts related to the DAB have already, for the most part, been negotiated in early 2017 with the trade union organisations of the ministries and departments concerned. With respect to the FPS Justice Security Corps, I obtained the approval of the Minister of Defence in charge of the Public Service on May 2, 2018. The transfer of members of the security corps (VKCS) to the police is scheduled for 1 January 2019. Everything is put in place within the Federal Police to accommodate them in the most optimal way possible. In addition, we have taken measures for uniforms to ensure that officers are equipped upon arrival. The PAHO contingent is being selected to ensure that coordination is put in place prior to arrival. I will answer your third question by department and body. As far as the Defence is concerned, a royal decree of 1 March 2018 organising the transfer of certain soldiers to the cadre of police security agents and the cadre of police security assistants was published in the Belgian Moniteur on 14 March 2018. The Royal Decree was negotiated in such a way that the rights of the military members interested in a transfer to the Federal Police Security Directorate (DAB) were preserved at best, particularly with regard to monetary aspects. It should also be noted that the transferees will see the rules of the statute of the police services fully applied to them. This will be the case with baraemic progressions. As specified in the Royal Decree, the target audience is volunteers and non-commissioned officers and, as a matter of priority, BDL military personnel referred to in Article 2 of the Act of 30 August 2013 establishing a military career of limited duration, who are in the end-of-care period referred to in Article 26(1), point 2 of the Act. The measure must support Defence as part of its reorganization and, at the same time, strengthen the capacity of the federal police in its new security missions. As regards civil security, the draft Royal Decree on the transfer of certain civil security personnel was submitted for the opinion of the Council of State on 26 June 2018. The deadline for issuing the notice was August 10, 2018. The call for applications will have to be launched within the units as soon as the draft royal decree is published, i.e. in August. As regards Brussels airport (BAC), at present this draft royal decree is not yet published in the Belgian Moniteur. We look forward to the agreement of the Minister of Defence and the Public Service. Once we have obtained it, we can seek the opinion of the Council of State. The call for applications will have to be launched within LAC as soon as the draft Royal Decree is published. In the case of the supervising staff, 55 staff were recruited out of 239 planned: one Divisional Police Commissioner, eight police commissioners, 25 police inspectors, two CaLog level A personnel, 16 level B staff and 2 level C staff. In the coming months, we will also continue to focus more on recruitment through various campaigns. We will further increase our appeal to the public, thereby strengthening our campaigns to recruit for the DAB. The first assignments will be completed again this year. The service will then continue to develop continuously, in order to run at full speed as early as 2019. The first trained personnel will be assigned to the nuclear site security mission, mainly at the Tihange site. Each month, the trained BAGPs will be incorporated in the following order of priority: first, the Tihange and Doel nuclear power plants; the Fleurus nuclear site; the Dessel-Mol and Geel nuclear site; Brussels Airport; the police; the central reserve; critical objects; the royal palaces; and the Shape. This is the order in which this strengthening of the DAB will be put in place! For the local police, the main one is the Courts and Courts Police who position themselves after the nuclear sites. Why? Because Engie pays for these sites. We have therefore given them priority. In the meantime, we can hire other agents. Indeed, if we are to transfer the security corps to courts and tribunals, we are talking about 400 people, whereas in reality 700 people are needed to guarantee security. That's the reason for calling local police. So we're busy recruiting. Due to the transfer of the security corps, we will be able to limit or abandon the support of local police for this protection of courts and tribunals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u6	Mr Minister, thank you for all these clarifications, but you did not tell me about the negotiations with the unions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u7	We completed the union negotiations in 2017 already. The unions agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u8	What about FPS Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u9	I answered on that point. Earlier this year, we finalized negotiations with the Justice Security Corps.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u11	Mr President, Minister, we will therefore talk again about cross-border cooperation or cooperation. This subject concerns all our borders with our French, Luxembourg, German and Dutch neighbours. I have already asked you in particular about the common border between France and the Dinaphi relief zone (Dinant-Philippeville) that you know well. This area comprises 22 communes and has 2,500 km2. It has about 95 km of border with France and has a low population density. Its relief is of Ardennes type. You've come to the field several times. I questioned you on 22 November 2017 because the question of the duration of the intervention at a fire place near the border remains a permanent challenge for the Dinaphi area. As our French friends have emergency areas and antennas close to the border, in some situations the French could be faster on the ground than we are. We know that in these cases time counts. In my question of 22 November, I explained the problem to you and referred to the letter addressed to you by the Governor of the Province of Namur on 28 September 2017. He had told you of an administrative, institutional and even political "blocking" situation. Indeed, people in the field know each other, meet each other and want to work together. Unfortunately, for this to happen, authorizations are needed. Things must be done in legal forms. I would remind you of the letter from the governor: "If the Dinaphi rescue zone is autonomous to pass cross-border agreements (Articles 6, § 3 and 22 of the 2007 Law), the SDIS Ardennes and the prefecture have indicated that they cannot conclude a cross-border agreement without a framework agreement at national level." You said: "The obstacle seems to come from the French side, the prefect of the North claiming that a national framework agreement would be required before a French fire department could engage in a collaboration with the Belgian rescue zone. I've just learned this situation of blockage. It is not possible at the moment to establish a schedule, but the file is being studied in order to find a solution." You also indicated a willingness to negotiate a framework agreement with your French counterpart if this was necessary because of French regulations. Which seems to be the case. Six months have passed. Unfortunately, fires have occurred in border villages. The question of this cross-border collaboration is regularly raised. We come back to the mayors, the area, the parliamentarians, to ask what the Belgian State and the Department of the Interior are doing. Therefore, Minister, what steps have you taken? What is the state of the negotiations on this framework agreement? How soon can a convention be approved so as to make cross-border cooperation on relief operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u12	Mr Delizée, since our last exchanges, the French Ministry of the Interior has confirmed to me that a national act must be adopted in order to empower the prefects to conclude cooperation agreements with the Belgian relief zones for so-called routine interventions. With a view to drafting and concluding this act, exchanges are under way between the competent Belgian and French services. A meeting was held between these services on 15 June. In addition, I addressed the issue at the bilateral meeting with my French counterpart, which took place on 11 June. He is committed to supporting the case. My objective is to get an agreement with France in the short term, so that cooperation agreements with relief zones can be signed and implemented as soon as possible. All we have to do is settle the details, and then we can conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u13	Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. I'm glad to hear everyone agrees. There's no opposition, so much the better. Someone really needs to take care of it so that this file doesn't get forgotten in a drawer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u14	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u15	J'entends bien. On the ground, men are of good will and ask only to be able to work together. Faster intervention would be in the interests of our respective populations. You know the geographical situation, the relief and the difficulties of intervening as quickly as possible. I hope that this agreement will be signed in a few weeks' time and that I will not have to ask you again about it at the beginning of the year. I look forward to your efforts so that you can tell me good news, as well as to the Dinaphi emergency zone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u16	Minister, the law leaves the possibility for municipalities to prosecute road traffic offences through administrative channels. This is a matter that you are well aware of, since you have dealt with it in the framework of the Law Various Internal Provisions, presented at the committee meeting on 13 June. This option is regulated by the Royal Decree of 9 March 2014 on communal administrative penalties for offences relating to stopping and parking and for infringements of signs C3 and F103 found by means of automatic devices. It is up to the municipalities to transpose the provisions of this decree into a communal regulation – which they do with zeal and determination, with scrupulous respect for the texts. In this case, it appears that they are very poorly rewarded for this attachment to the regulations in force, since the text of the Royal Decree in its Article 2(1), q, reads as follows: "It is prohibited to stop or park on the white markings defined in Article 77.5 of the Royal Decree of 1 December 1975 on the General Regulation on the Police of Road Traffic and the Use of Public Roads, which define the places to be occupied by vehicles". It will not have escaped your attention – I am sure – that this text subtly departs from the requirement of the Road Traffic Code, in such a way that, in the current state of affairs, neither local police officers nor monitoring agents can resort to this article from the perspective of administrative sanction, as they did in the case of taxiing. So my questions will be simple. Can you confirm to me that the drafting of this article of the royal decree is a material error? Do you intend to take prompt action to correct it? Pending this change, what legally secure solution do you propose to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u17	Mr Frédéric, I am well aware of the difference in wording between Article 77.5 of the Road Traffic Code and Article 2, §1, q of the Royal Decree of 9 March 2014 on communal administrative penalties for offences relating to stopping and parking and for infringements of signs C3 and F103 found by means of automatic devices. My services have already had a consultation on this subject with those who fall within the competence of the Minister of Mobility. This discrepancy in the statement is due to the fact that the two articles were developed from a different approach. Thus, article 77.5 of the Road Traffic Code was conceived by focusing on road managers, whereas article 2, paragraph 1, q, was rather conceived as an obligation directed at the driver of a vehicle. Irrespective of these two wordings, this means that parking outside white marks is permitted, unless another article of the Road Traffic Code is breached. In the absence of any violation of the Road Traffic Code, however, municipalities may still sanction parking outside white markings by referring to the yellow discontinuous line as referred to in Article 75.1 (2) of the Code or by placing parking ban signs. In summary, the two formulations do not prevent the municipalities from applying the SAC rules for possible infringements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u18	Mr Minister, thank you for your reply, which I will pass on to the municipalities concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u19	Mr President, the progress of this work is a real pleasure. Minister, for several months, the Vesdre police zone has been facing difficulties in establishing its budget, because of the attitude of the municipality of Pepinster, which has unilaterally decided to reduce its allocation to the budget of the area. Indeed, on 18 December 2017, the Pepinster communal council voted a reduction of 225,000 euros in its 2018 annual allocation to the Vesdre police zone. On 21 December of the same year, the council of the zone voted its budget by maintaining that amount. The governor of the province of Liège, our former colleague who was Minister of Budget, reformed the budget of the municipality of Pepinster, increasing the allocation to the police zone by 225,000 euros. On 13 March 2018, the Pepinster Municipal College filed an appeal with your services against the Governor's decision. This decision of the Municipal College was validated by the Municipal Council at its meeting on 26 March 2018. You then took an order on 24 April 2018 to reject this appeal, but the transmission of this decision would have taken place beyond the legal deadline, which de facto allowed the municipality of Pepinster to reduce its allocation to the police zone. Minister, do you confirm this scenario that deprived the police zone of an amount of 225,000 euros? What are the reasons for the delay in the transmission of the royal decree? What solutions do you recommend so that the area can have the necessary resources to enable it to carry out its missions properly?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u20	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Frédéric, I am forced to confirm the scenario described above. I'll explain. The municipality of Pepinster, in fact, by its deliberation of 18 December 2017, decided to reduce its financial contribution to its police zone by 225,000 euros, without a consensus having been reached with the other two municipalities that make up the police zone. According to the information available to my services, this unilateral decision is based on a reflection carried out by the Chief of Staff acting on the operational, organisational and financial implications of the departure of the commune of Pepinster from the Vesdre police zone, which indicates, inter alia, that the division of the police zone with the commune of Pepinster would entail the transfer of 22 to 24 staff members and an annual additional cost for the Vesdre police zone of the order of 225 000 euros (for 22 persons) or 250 000 euros (for 24 persons). This deliberation was the subject of a decree of approval by the Governor of the Province of Liège on 2 February 2018, with an increase of 225,000 euros on the basis of Article 40 of the Integrated Police Act. This article provides that, where the multi-municipal area does not have sufficient resources to cover the expenditure resulting from the fulfilment of its mission, the difference must be covered by the municipalities which form part of it. On 14 March 2018, however, the municipal college of the municipality of Pepinster decided to appeal against this judgment. After an initial examination of the appeal by my administration, it became clear that the municipal college was, in the present appeal, without the power to act on behalf of the municipal council. By simply ratifying the illegal decision of the municipal college, the municipal council had not legally exercised its powers. In view of this irregularity, I declared the appeal inadmissible on 24 April 2018, the last day of the statutory deadline. In particular, the Integrated Police Act provides for a decision to be taken within 40 days of receipt of the appeal, and a decision to that effect shall be transmitted no later than the last day of the appeal. It has been noted that it is no longer technically possible for my services to notify my decision within the legally prescribed time limit, which I deeply regret. The administrative follow-up procedure has shown, despite the efforts made by my services, certain shortcomings in the physical follow-up of the file, due to the delay of notification, here very limited. It will therefore be necessary to review the procedure so that this type of problem does not recur in the future. I am aware of the financial difficulties facing the Vesdre police area in the coming months. I would like to recall here that the budget is an estimate of the revenue and expenditure that can be made during the course of the financial year. Therefore, if some revenue or expenditure has been overestimated or underestimated, it is possible to remedy it by means of a budgetary change. The question raised here, concerning the budget of the Vesdre police zone, is only the result of a deeper problem linked to the will of the Pepinster municipality to leave the police zone, for which the lack of compromise between the parties has and will have a negative effect on the functioning of the police zone. It therefore seems to me important that the local authorities work together to find solutions to these problems. New perspectives may also exist in the context of the study project on the possibilities of fusion and collaboration between local police services. In any event, the situation is quite disturbing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u21	Minister, I do not always agree with you, but I agree with your conclusion that the situation is a little disturbing. That said, it is particularly annoying for the other communes who have to take on a failure, an "irresponsibility" of a communal college, or even a council that decides, because it cannot freely leave one area to go to another - it is however the law which specifies under which conditions one can modify the areas - to withdraw an amount equivalent to that which costs its agents (225,000 euros). Secondly, because of a delay error - the error is human and I am not throwing the stone at anyone - the decision that has been made is broken by inviting those concerned to fulfil their commitments. But as the deadline has just been exceeded, we say that we can't do anything anymore and that we're going to try to ensure that it doesn't happen again in the future. Minister, this approach is not satisfactory for the managers of both the municipalities of Verviers and Dison, who are associated with a third commune which, by an irresponsible act, puts the very functioning of public safety in an area which is being discussed from time to time and where difficulties arise. Indeed, it is not a small rural commune where little happens, but urban centres that have problems that you do not ignore. I expect you not only to say that it is a shame, that the situation is sad and delicate, but that you are putting concrete proposals on the table. So far, I haven't heard anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u22	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Friart (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Van Hecke, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Van Hecke
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u23	Minister, on 8 June 2004 the Treaty between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on cross-border police action was signed. On 18 June 2016, the Benelux Parliament adopted a recommendation to update the Benelux Police Convention. Ais Minister for the Interior, you have confirmed that this was a priority for you. It would include the regulation of certain powers, the exchange of information, cross-border investigative powers, cross-border pursuit and observation, the exercise of force and the use of coercive means and civil and criminal liability. Three working groups have looked at some specific aspects and identified their possibility and desirability. I have heard that the negotiations would have been concluded and that the signing might take place in July 2018. Minister, I have a number of questions about this. Firstly, in what areas and concrete situations has the 2004 Convention achieved the best results? Secondly, in what areas did Belgium consider that cooperation was not sufficiently effective or efficient? In which domains did the Netherlands and Luxembourg consider that cooperation with Belgium could be improved? Thirdly, is it true that the negotiations for the new treaty have been concluded? By what time do you expect the signing of the new police treaty by the three countries concerned? Fourthly, when do you expect the new treaty to come into force? Finally, what will be the most important changes compared to the 2004 Convention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u24	Mr Vermeulen, there are no figures on the number of cross-border actions organised to date on the basis of the Benelux Police Cooperation Treaty of 8 June 2004. However, it is clear that the police forces of Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg are making frequent use of the possibilities for cooperation offered by this Treaty. For example, there are regular mixed patrols and checks in the border area and the police forces of the Benelux countries have on several occasions provided assistance to each other on request in the context of the maintenance of public order and security. In addition, services in the border region often make use of the provisions of the Convention relating to cross-border chases, the right of way and the possibility to exchange information directly. Finally, the joint use of Benelux liaison officers in third countries is also a good example of how the Treaty strengthens cooperation between our police forces. The joint declaration on the revision of the Benelux Police Cooperation Treaty signed with Mr Geens and the competent ministers of the Netherlands and Luxembourg in November 2016 highlighted three priority points for improvement. Firstly, the new Convention should strengthen cooperation in the field of cross-border detection. Indeed, the 2004 Convention, which originated in the Euro 2000 Belgian-Dutch cooperation framework, focuses more on tasks of administrative police. Secondly, we wanted an adapted regime for cross-border chases which could be applied more easily by police officers on the ground. Thirdly, we wanted to create new opportunities for a smoother and more efficient exchange of information, in particular through mutual access to each other's databases. In addition, from the initial evaluations of the current Convention, Belgium indicated the need for a more coherent regime of police powers, including the use of coercion and violence during the various forms of cross-border action. Your third question. The negotiations on the new treaty have indeed been concluded. The negotiating teams of the three countries reached agreement on 25 April on a draft text, which was then submitted for their opinion to the Benelux Committee of Lawyers and the data protection authorities of Belgium and the Netherlands. A final round of negotiations was held on 28 June to process the comments of lawyers and data protection authorities. The new treaty is due to be signed on Monday 23 July. I hope I can go on vacation immediately after that signature. The new treaty will not enter into force until it has been ratified by the three parties. I hope that the parliaments of the three Benelux countries will work on this ratification as soon as possible. So the ball is in your camp for one third. Finally, for each of the three priorities which I mentioned in my answer to your second question, an innovative arrangement was developed in the new Treaty. Firstly, as regards investigations, it will be possible for the police forces of the Benelux countries to carry out investigations under strict conditions in the territory of another Contracting Party, in so far as they can be carried out by the officials of the host State without further instructions or permission from judicial authorities. I am thinking, for example, of questioning witnesses. Secondly, cross-border chases will no longer be subject to complicated opening conditions which are difficult to apply by police officers on the ground. In principle, any pursuit which has been lawfully launched on its own territory will be allowed to continue across borders. Thirdly, in the field of information exchange, the Contracting Parties will be given the possibility, by means of implementing agreements, to allow for a hit/no hit search or consultation of various databases. In this way, the exchange of information within common police posts or during mixed patrols and controls will be much easier. In addition, the new Treaty offers many other new elements and improvements compared to the 2004 Convention. For example, it regulates, inter alia, the police exchange of information with a view to dealing with crime, the exchange of ANPR blacklists and the cross-border transport of persons in the context of the application of foreign law or the execution of judicial proceedings. The ANPR blacklists of the Netherlands can therefore also be loaded with us and vice versa. That is an incredible step forward. The powers of police officers during the various forms of cross-border action are also defined. Finally, the new Convention contains a separate chapter on cooperation between the special units, which will enable them to assist each other, inter alia, in crisis situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u25	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I am certainly pleased with the content. In the past, I have already questioned you about cross-border cooperation with France and the ratification of the Tournai Agreements, which were very difficult. The same applies to its application. If I compare it with what is possible in the Benelux, it does not go one step further, but several steps further, which also shows that it can be done differently and better. So we can continue along that road. I think it is a very good thing. I heard from you that the signing is scheduled on 23 July and that you expect me and other fellow Members to ratify the treaty as soon as possible. I will do my best to do so, but that will not be here, but in the Committee on External Relations, where I am an alternate. So I'll definitely try to stick a tooth to that. I am certainly grateful to you for the content negotiated and for what has been achieved. I'm very satisfied. I had heard a few things in the margins of the Benelux Parliament. I am glad that we can continue to do so. I will certainly come back to it in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u26	Minister, the Royal Decree of 16 February 2006, together with the accompanying circulars, harmonises terminology and the content of the contingency plans. This KB divides, inter alia, emergency management into three main areas, namely the municipal, provincial and federal phases. On 25 January 2017, the Emergency Planning Service of the FPS Home Affairs announced that work would be carried out with local and multidisciplinary partners on the review of the KB and its circulars. Following the holding of seminars and workshops, recommendations were made which also took into account the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the events of 22 March. The recommendations show that current structures work well and are appreciated by the local level. A change in emergency planning is therefore by no means a matter for discussion. According to the Emergency Planning Service, a new KB is currently being prepared which, in addition to a number of substantive changes, also needs a legal update. In addition, the circular letters are also modified so that not all details should be included in the KB. At the same time, a uniform basic structure for the Special Emergency and Intervention Plan is being developed. This structure will be integrated into the Incident and Crisis Management System. Hence the following questions, Minister. Can you give the state of play on the amendment of the Royal Decree of 16 February 2006? What's the timing to get this adjustment done? Which actors are involved in the transition process? Is the uniform basic structure of the GNIP integrated into the ICMS? If so, how did this integration work? Were there any adjustments needed? If not, when do you expect this trial to be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u27	Mr Vermeulen, yes, I can give you a list of the most important adjustments. There are six of them. Firstly, a more active protection of emergency planning, which is more in line with reality on the ground. The design of KB adapts the use of words and uses an active style more in line with the active role that actors involved in emergency planning and crisis management should play. The structure of the Royal Decree has also been revised in order to obtain a logical sequence of articles. Secondly, a change in the name and an extension of the emergency planning officer's tasks. In reality, the emergency plan officer has a comprehensive set of tasks with many responsibilities. The description "official" found many interested parties to sound passive. By making the role of "emergency planning coordinator" and the task package more consistent with reality, this crucial function is upgraded in emergency planning. Thirdly, it is now also possible to share an emergency planning coordinator with the urban and municipal authorities themselves, with the aim of making this person an expert in the matter and giving smaller authorities the opportunity to appoint a part-time coordinator. Fourthly, the disciplines have been able to provide their input to adapt, among other things, their tasks to reality. The tasks of both operational and policy coordination are more clearly defined and brought into line with the reality of emergency management. Special attention has been paid to the flow of information from operational coordination to policy coordination, but cooperation between the different levels of policy coordination has also been clarified. Fifthly, the explicit possibility is given to cooperation between the various authorities in emergency planning. Sixthly, explicit attention is paid to the aspect of aftercare and the importance of evaluation. The Article for the approval of emergency and intervention plans is no longer included in the draft Royal Decree. As approval is a formal approval and has no impact on responsibility, the added value for local levels is limited. The various elements that have emerged in the parliamentary committee of inquiry following the attacks of 22 March 2016 have also been taken into account. The main changes in substance following the comments of this parliamentary committee of inquiry are as follows. Firstly, the obligation to carry out regular multidisciplinary exercises. Secondly, the explicit possibility of working together in the context of emergency planning for risks beyond municipal boundaries. Thirdly, in addition to further clarification on the scaling-up of phases, an article has been developed on the scaling-down of phases and aftercare after an emergency. Fourthly, there is also a clear definition of the tasks of operational coordination and policy coordination, as well as the flow of communication between the different levels, with particular attention to the decision to be taken at each level. To your second question I can answer that my administration aims to complete the work on the design of KB before the summer recess. I come to your third question. To arrive at a final version of KB's design, work was carried out according to the bottom-up principle, with regular consultations from various partners, including emergency planning officers through provincial security cells, disciplines, federal services of the governors, the other federal services involved, the local police standing committee, the federal police commissioner-general, the VVSG and the other city associations and firefighters' associations. The necessary actors in emergency planning and crisis management are involved in the transition process. For this reason, my administration will continue to consult with the federal services of the governors on a regular basis, which in turn will ensure the transfer of information to the actors involved in emergency planning and crisis management at local level. For both ANIP and BNIP, there is now a uniform basic structure that has been developed in collaboration with the federal services of the governors. The development of the integration of these basic structures in the ICMS will start in the course of this summer. The completion of that process is planned in principle by the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u28	Minister, as regards timing, you say that everything must be in order before the recess. So there's still a few weeks left.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u29	Three weeks, I hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u30	So that's very close. Thank you for sharing that with us here. I believe that the substantive adjustments made by the Royal Decree are very important in order to modernise a number of services and, above all, to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of these services. The fact that this bottom-up has taken place is the only good way of working at that level, because there should not be any great ideological debate on such major issues. If such decisions are taken top-down, this may result in the special emergency and intervention plans being ineffective in the event of emergencies. It is better that these plans go as well as possible and are supported from the bottom up, of course in the most current and modern way. I've listened to your answer. I will look into what might happen in addition and question you about it if necessary. In the meantime, however, I have already received a great deal of information, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u31	Minister, the information about Tihange 3 is worrying me more and more. In our previous discussion on the subject, you informed us that the Tihange 3 tests revealed a worsening of the concrete deterioration of the bunker ceiling. Above all, you pointed out that additional analyses had revealed anomalies in concrete reinforcement when the plant was being manufactured. This leads to several questions. 1) Why were these manufacturing anomalies not discovered earlier? What is the seriousness of the initial tests and checks, but also of all the tests carried out since then? How do we know that anomalies have been present since construction? Is it through the documents of the time or otherwise? 2) What do the original plans and documents say at the reinforcement level? 3) What exactly is the difference between these initial plans and what has been discovered in recent tests? 4) Is degradation widespread on the walls of the building or located in certain places? If so, what are these places? 5) You also told us that a new INES estimate was under way. We have since learned that this was Level 1. What is the element or what are the elements justifying and explaining this new classification? Why did we move from level 0 to level 1? 6) More generally, in view of the information that continues to come out on this worrying issue, I would like you to be able to make all the clarity on this subject, with maximum precision and without having to wait for the next leaks or newspaper articles to really understand what Engie did not initially tell us. Could you be as complete as possible so that it is through you that the information reaches us and not by the press that manages to get information from Engie when you cannot do it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u32	Mr Nollet, the structural anomalies that have been discovered concern the reinforcements located inside the concrete slab on the roof of the Tihange 3 bunker. This is a misposition of some of the calipers of the slab, but it remains invisible once it has been cast. These defects became visible only after stripping of the altered concrete for repair work. These anomalies suggest that the initial controls on the position of the calipers prior to concrete casting were ineffective. As the reinforcements were blocked in the concrete, the non-conforming positioning could only occur during construction. Next, the design plans describe the technical details of the construction, the characteristics of the frames, their dimensions and their positioning. It was by mapping the current situation of the reinforcements, once some of the ceilings had been decapitated, that the anomalies were highlighted. In addition, the difference mainly relates to the positioning of the lower reinforcements of the slab, as provided for in the initial construction plans. Finally, the deviations identified involve some decapitated portions of the bunker space ceiling. As a first step, this event had been provisionally classified at level 0 of the INES scale. However, the stripping of the damaged areas has revealed anomalies in the reinforced concrete reinforcements present since the construction of the building. These anomalies call into question his resistance to an event such as an aircraft crash. Therefore, on the basis of the most penalising assumption, the equipment in this building is considered unavailable. As a result of these new elements, a new INES analysis was conducted and resulted in an adjustment to level 1 of the INES scale.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I'd like to take a minute to make a point with you. What's going on is quite amazing! I am obviously not talking about your answer, but about the situation. These reactors – Tihange 1, 2 and 3 – have been operating for some 30 years. And for each of them, anomalies have recently been discovered, elements that, had they been discovered initially, would have prevented the plant from operating. However, they were not discovered or hidden, which allowed the plant to operate, although it would not normally have been able to do so. In Tihange 1, remember, the composition of the basement was completely different from what was shown on the plans. In Tihange 2, it was the cracks that, had they been detected at the time, would not have allowed to launch the plant. These were discovered around 2013, 2015. And in Tihange 3, the bunker is the problem, especially the concrete reinforcement of the bunker roof. This means that of the three reactors in Tihange, there are structural anomalies present since the construction of the plant, which were not detected at the time and which are today by chance or at the turn of an incident – as at Doel 3 – which prompts us to do checks elsewhere. It's still amazing! Would I dare talk about amateurism? Or should I be even harder and talk about falsification? This has been seen in other companies in France. I ask you regularly about the documents that have been falsified in France. Here, for the time being, this question will remain a question mark, but it is really very important: how did they dare to operate the plant when none of the three reactors were in a state of initiation. Luckily, we're finding out today! But it's still challenging. We are not talking about a chocolate company or Lego, but about a nuclear power plant. For me, this shows the real image of this sector. I hope that you will go very quickly so that we can see what is happening in Doel 4 and Tihange 2, the two plants that have not yet been inspected for this problem. However, they are known to have the same problem with bunker concrete.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u34	Minister, according to the government agreement, the rules on the tasks of and control of private investigators will be modernised, taking into account the evolution of the legal framework for the protection of private life and the relevant European directives. The government would do so after consulting the relevant actors such as the sector itself, industry and insurance companies. Minister, what is the current state of play on the implementation of this part of the coalition agreement? What is the impact on our legislation as a result of recent developments in privacy and European regulation? Have the planned consultations taken place in the meantime? What were the results? What legislative initiatives can we expect in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u35	Minister, the law of 19 July 1991 regulates the profession of private investigators. Not only those who are in the classical sense private investigators are covered by that law, but also experts, insurance inspectors, staff of large companies investigating fraud and detectives working for debt collection agencies are subject to the law on private detectives. Private detectives get an ID card when they get their license. In March 2013, the Internal Affairs Commission held hearings of 13 persons to review the 1991 Act. The government agreement states that the tasks of private investigators will be modernised, taking into account the evolution of the legal framework for the protection of private life and the relevant European directives. In December 2016, journalist Lars Bové recorded in De Tijd that there had been only 33 complaints about private investigators in six years. In December 2016, you announced your intention to revise and update the legislation. Your predecessors also announced this earlier, but never finished. GDPR legislation will undoubtedly also affect the activities of private investigators. I am told that a detective who now obtains information about a particular fact or person, should apparently inform that person and give him or her access to the collected data. That seems to me to be very strange and completely opposed to the nature of a private investigator's work. It seems to me that the sector itself is not very efficiently organised to act as an interlocutor with the government. For example, there is a BVVIE, there is also Corporate Fraud Investigators and a National Professional Union of Private Detectives of Belgium. For this sector, which is not very large in itself, there seems to be no real point of contact that is sufficiently organised and representative. I have a few questions about that. How does consultation with the sector take place? Does this go to satisfaction? Secondly, how does the existing privacy protection legislation and the new GDPR privacy rules ensure any necessary amendments to the 1992 legislation? Is a notification obligation always workable in the conduct of investigations by a private investigator? Thirdly, what is your view on a possible revision of the legislation? In which domains do you consider it desirable or necessary? Finally, when will this part of the coalition agreement be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u36	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, Mr Vermeulen, the coalition agreement indeed provides for a revision of the current detective law. In the meantime, a text was drawn up and discussed with the various private stakeholders, allowing them to analyse a number of ideas and detailed proposals, consult the grassroots and comment on them. The GDPR Regulation was taken into account in drawing up these ideas. The nature of a private investigator's activities often implies the processing of personal data. Like the 1992 Privacy Act, the GDPR Regulation now applies to private investigators. The consultation therefore highlighted the implications of the GDPR Regulation in this context as well as the opportunities. We have received a wide range of responses to this text which give us more insight into the desirability of the various ideas and the implications of the GDPR on the desirability of the framework itself. A number of responses gave rise to additional questions for the private stakeholders concerned. In the meantime, we almost have a total picture. Further legislative initiatives will depend on their outcome. So I'm going to the IKW very soon with a proposal on the law on private investigators. It's whispered to me that the IKW meets on July 10th, so next week. It is really my ambition to get that law around this legislature as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for this state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u38	Thank you, Minister. The sector is highly fragmented while it concerns so few people. Apparently, there are only a hundred and fifty people doing the classic private detective work while a total of 800 are licensed. If there is a fragmented organisation with many private interests, then I can imagine that there are many different responses and that there should be a proper filter, taking into account the latest changes and the general interest. I'll see what your work in the IKW will bring to know the conclusions. I certainly look forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u39	At the beginning of June 2018, it was announced that the federal government will no longer finance the private security companies in the highway parkings and transferred the power to the Regions. The federal level had only demolished the Regions. Since mid-February 2018, surveillance companies have been working at night on a number of highway parkings in our country, in the context of the fight against transmigrants. At the time of the announcement, only Flanders had signed a contract with a long-term monitoring company, namely five and a half months. Wallonia was still negotiating with surveillance firms. I have a few questions about this. Can you give the cost that the federal level has taken on until the transfer of powers? Since at the moment only the Flemish Region has signed a contract, what about the costs of surveillance in highway parking in the other Regions? Is the federal level still falling apart?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u40	Ms Lahaye-Battheu, the federal police paid an amount of 310 432,34 euros in 2018 on the basis of a public contract from 13 February 2018 to 14 April 2018 for surveillance orders in highway parkings. The surveillance capacity at the highway parkings shall be determined according to the operational need. In the interest of public policy, no detailed information relating to these surveillance orders can be released for the deployment of surveillance personnel. It was a two-month contract. Since the end of that period, the federal level has no longer incurred any costs for surveillance firms. In addition to the above mentioned costs, the federal police did not incur any other costs in relation to the public procurement of highway parking surveillance orders.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u41	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u42	Debates of the European Parliament 26159 by Mr Friart will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lambrecht's question is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 26311 by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 26422 by Mr Dallemagne 264446 by Mr Hellings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u43	Minister, on 20 June 2018, we heard from the press that the military intelligence service ADIV has set up a working group specifically concerned with possible foreign interference during the elections. The Minister of Defence clarified in Parliament that appropriate cyber security will be created in conjunction with decisive actions. The fact that foreign powers use elections in another country to serve their geopolitical interests is not new. They operate in different ways. In Britain, for example, there has been a fuss about close links between Mr Arron Banks, who was an important financier for the Leave Campaign, and the Russian establishment. According to some media sources, that's what would have happened. Mr Banks himself denies that he would have received Russian money for the Brexit campaign. It is well known that in France the Front National received several loans from a Russian bank and that its chairman, Marine Le Pen, visited President Putin at the time when the Russian Deposit Guarantee Agency ASV wanted to recover that money after the bankruptcy of that bank. In the Netherlands, the Dutch House of Representatives voted another motion in 2016 that should prevent political parties from receiving gifts from abroad. But in implementation of the new coalition agreement, Minister of the Interior Ollongren of D66 has been working since this year on proposals to restrict foreign funding of political parties. She works on the basis of the report "The public interest of political parties." In the Netherlands, between 1 January 2016 and March 2017, the PVV received more than 130 000 euros from the think tank Horowitz Freedom Center from the United States and almost 7 000 euros from the company FOL Incorporated. Even the SP, the Socialist Party, received 26 254 euros from someone from Bangladesh. Firstly, in certain cases, does Belgian legislation prohibit the financing of political parties from abroad? If so, in what cases? Secondly, have investigations been launched by the federal police or by the services of the Interior after the Agusta affair on foreign money flows to Belgian political parties? If so, how many cases were involved and in what year were the investigations conducted? What action has been taken on these possible investigations? Finally, the prevention of incidents and interference in elections does not strike me as an immediate task for the ADIV military intelligence service, but rather for Home Affairs and for the security of the state. Will the Home Office be involved in the ADIV's initiative to set up a working group specifically concerned with possible foreign interference during the elections? Why is ADIV taking the initiative here?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u44	Mr Vermeulen, I can answer your questions quite briefly. The audit of the financing shall be carried out by the Audit Board on the electoral expenditure and the accounts of the political parties. I therefore think it is appropriate that you should address yourself to the Audit Board for the interpretation of these sources of funding. As such, I have no authority to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u45	I am not unaware, Mr Minister, but I wonder if investigations have ever been launched, knowing that there may sometimes be a conflict of interest. I will address myself, if necessary, to the Audit Board.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u46	Minister, the Dutch newspaper Algemeen Dagblad headlined on 27 June "Police is watching through private camera." The Dutch police project Camera in Beeld doubled the number of registered cameras to almost 200 000 within 20 months, but that is still only a fraction of the estimated 1.5 million company and private cameras that would be available in the Netherlands. Unlike Belgium, the registration of a camera with the police in the Netherlands is voluntary. The Dutch police unions are therefore calling for a compulsory register to be made, as a Belgian example, as this would make detective work much easier. Since 25 May 2018, municipalities and companies have been required to inform the police when they are placing a surveillance camera. Citizens should do this when their camera has a partial view of the public domain. Previously, this had to be done by the Commission for the Protection of Privacy. At that time, cities, municipalities and companies had reported 52 000 cameras. Now owners of private surveillance cameras have to do this via the web site www.declarationcamera.be. Through the central register that is being created, police and security services can create a digital card that records every private security camera. I have the following questions, Minister. First of all, in that short period of time, were there many cameras registered with the police? How many of these were registered via the website www.declarationcamera.be? Are there any other ways to do this, for example at the local police office? How many people did it that way? Secondly, is the notification expected or do there appear to be any problems around this? Thirdly, were the people, cities, municipalities and companies who had reported 52 000 cameras informed of the need to re-register their camera, but this time with the police? If so, how were they informed? What was the response rate? How many people have indicated that their registered camera is no longer used? It is possible that the camera was once logged in, but in the meantime no longer exists. If not, will that happen in the future? Can you tell us a timing for this? Fourthly, do the police now use private cameras since they were given the opportunity to do so with the introduction of the law of 21 March 2007? Are there any figures for this? Over the years, are there any differences between the provinces in the use of private camera images? Fifth, can you tell us what kind of crime facts these private camera images were used for?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u47	Mr Vermeulen, as provided for in the camera law, the Royal Decree of 8 May 2018 laid down the content of the form for the declaration of the cameras to the police services as well as the modalities for sending that declaration. That Royal Decree provides for the declaration to be made via the centralised electronic counter for the declaration of the camera surveillance systems, in particular the application www.declarationcamera.be. Just as in the past, when the declaration of the cameras was made exclusively through the Commission's e-stop shop for the protection of privacy, the declaration is now only made through the new electronic counter. Therefore, one cannot indicate his cameras at the police station by handing out a form on paper. Moreover, I do not see why we should offer this opportunity if we can do it from home. Up to now, the number of declarations submitted amounts to 2 848 out of a total of 33 873 cameras. As with any new application, improvements are constantly being made to ensure that the system is technically on track and that it would be more user-friendly for the providers. On the website www.besafe.be you can find general information as well as the user manual in order to assist citizens in carrying out their declaration. So far, everything's going as planned. Thirdly, my services have worked with the Commission for the Protection of Privacy to inform the persons who had declared their surveillance camera through the old system of the obligation to re-identify their surveillance camera through the new application. To this end, the Commission sent a three-fold e-mail to all the persons concerned in order to prepare for the change and to inform them of the introduction of the new application. In addition to this mailing, the Commission also posted the information on its website. Our services have taken over this information on the website of the General Directorate of Security and Prevention. These persons were informed of the reasons for the need to re-apply, in particular because the Commission, due to the new European regulation, the GDPR, no longer received a declaration and would no longer keep a public register and because the new form was significantly different from the old one. They were also informed of the transitional period available to them to be in order. The legislator granted them a period of two years to make this declaration, in particular until 25 May 2020. Since the camera law was adopted in 2007, the police have had the right to request recorded images as part of their tasks of administrative or judicial police and if the images concern the identified crime or nuisance. This obligation to provide the recorded images to the police services was already laid down in Article 9 of the Act. The purpose of the new declaration system is to facilitate the work of police forces by ensuring that they know where surveillance cameras have been installed. It is not intended to allow the police to log in to all private cameras listed in the database, but to know where they are located and who they can contact if they want access to the images when facts occur. The novelty introduced into the Camera Act by the Act of 21 March 2018 is the possibility for the police services to have access to real-time images of the cameras of places presenting a particular risk of security on the basis of a written agreement with the controller for the processing of that place. These places must be determined in a KB negotiated by the Council of Ministers. A draft is currently being prepared. It is a measure which will apply to a number of specific sites, but which is not yet in force because the KB has not yet been approved. Since the terms of the camera law are very broad, in particular the prevention, detection, detection of infringements of persons or property, the facts for which the images could be used are very diverse. Moreover, in view of the provision referred to in Article 9, any infringement or nuisance may arise when the police request the images in the context of their mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u49	Mr. President, Minister, for several weeks now, ATMs (ATMs) have been attacked across the country. Most often, this is done in an extremely violent manner, using explosives. The criminals are clearly very well organized and informed, knowing where to place the explosive charges to prevent the released ink from staining the banknotes. In the face of this situation, the Ministry of the Interior announced on 15 June, after consultation with Febelfin, the decision to close the distributors at night, after 23 hours. This concerns rooms with distributors inside banking agencies. This measure is presented as provisional. Minister, do you confirm that this is a temporary measure, especially since some of the criminals would have been apprehended? When should the situation return to normal? In the face of professional criminals – perhaps political – what are the avenues for improving the safety of distributors, including mechanisms to make banknotes unusable, while preserving their freedom of access for users? As far as the investigation is concerned, can you inform me, if you have any, of any details on the tracking of these bandits? My question was dated June 18. Since then, there have been some developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u50	Mr Minister, my question dates from 28 June 2018 and is therefore more recent. Last week, in committee, I had an oral question on puff squatting, which I had translated into a written question. The night after that, especially the night of 20 on 21 June 2018, there were two more puff squats, in Lommel and in Lummen. At 2.00 hours of the same day that I asked my question, especially on June 28, 2018, in Hyon, a submunicipality of Bergen, another puff squat was committed. According to the French-speaking public broadcaster RTBF, the puff squat was the work of the same gang that had already hit Belgium several times in recent weeks. Although bpost is not the largest bank in Belgium, it is striking that several puff squats were carried out on ATMs from a bpost office. The three most recent cracks were already at a bpost office. That is why I have the following questions. First of all, how many puff squats were involved in bpost offices? Was there less security in those offices? Have any further measures been taken in the meantime? Secondly, is there a risk that ATMs would suddenly be exhausted if cash stocks were to be reduced substantially each time? Thirdly, will there be any further action by the government to combat this type of crime temporarily or permanently? Will the banking sector also contribute financially to this? Such a contribution seems to me to be logical, since the banks are the most interested in this matter. Fourthly, if the stolen money has been rendered unusable, as indicated, does that mean that it cannot be used as cash anywhere, not even in retail, because the unusability is visible visually and the money is rendered irreversibly invalid? Fifth, are the federal police, the local police and the police also taking any additional measures? Finally, have specific measures already been taken in the surrounding countries to combat puff squatting, which has reduced the number of puff squatting? What can we learn from these measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u51	Mr Vermeulen, Mr Flahaux, I will first answer your first and third questions. To be clear, the decision to close, from 23 hours onwards, the premises of bank agencies equipped with ticket distributors was taken by the banking sector itself. I didn't take it, because I don't have the power. This also applies to the duration of the measure. The safety of distributors is also the responsibility of the banking sector. I am thinking in particular of the detection mechanisms that can be installed. These are initiatives – I repeat – that must be taken and organised by the sector itself. As Minister for the Interior, I am not aware of all the preventive security measures taken by private companies in this sector. You can contact the banking sector, to Febelfin, if you would like more information. I have already communicated the following on the additional measures. The emphasis is mainly on strengthening security around payment machines; on the one hand, through investment in technology by the banking sector itself, on the other hand, by increasing the alertness and the response rate of local police. In addition, a central contact point was identified within the FGP where the banks can address this issue. Additional investments are also being made in the timely exchange of information between the FGP and the different banks. Then I come to the fourth question. There are indeed different detection systems, each of which has their typical characteristic, either a discoloration of the notes by ink or the burning of a hole in the banknotes. However, there may be only limited traces of ink on some of the notes. In this case, they may go unnoticed and still be accepted in the case of retail payments. As regards Mr Vermeulen's fifth and sixth questions and Mr Flahaux' fourth question, they fall within the competence of my colleague Geens. Unfortunately, he will only be able to tell you that he cannot tell you about it, because of the secrecy of the investigation. As has already been mentioned, the police have been sending out the necessary places of attention to local areas so that they will react alertly when suspicious acts are detected in the surroundings of banks. I am not aware of any other local measures. Mr Vermeulen, I come to your sixth question. I can confirm that the banking sector and the police are consulting colleagues across the border who have been dealing with this problem for some time now. If there are specific security measures in place abroad which would have led to a reduction in the number of puff squats, these will certainly be considered. On 17 July there will be a follow-up meeting with the banking sector, the police and the offices of Justice and Home Affairs to discuss any findings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u52	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that the responsibility of the banking sector is full and complete. That being said, I know that you are not the representative of Febelfin, but it is clear that it must be very frustrating for the public to see that there is no more window open after 11 p.m. It is enough, as has been the case recently in Liège, that there is a breakdown of the electrical system in a city so that you can no longer pay your restaurant bill by credit card, which is obviously a problem. We are not yet in the situation in Sweden where more than 80%, or even more, of financial flows are made by card and not by ringing and stumbling currency. Every country has its own traditions. In Germany, for example, in more than 80% of cases, cash is paid. In any event, I thank you for your information and hope that we will get a hold of the entire chain as soon as possible. Apparently, it seems that, in Limburg, vending machines were no longer vandalized, following a certain discovery. This seems to indicate that the track is quite good. Finally, I should like to say that I know that you are primarily interested in these kinds of matters, beyond the respective powers of the Minister of the Interior and of Febelfin.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u53	Minister, I assume that the criminals involved are making use of the fact that there is still a lot of cash in circulation. That will never completely disappear, but there are countries where there are now far more electronic payments than in Belgium. Mr Flahaux also referred to it. Indeed, there is a plea to move increasingly towards digital and non-cash payments rather than cash payments. That is also why the banking sector is currently closing down very much smaller and less used ATMs. They're being reduced everywhere. In my city, too, there are fewer and will be abolished. It is not, of course, because there is an extinct scenario and there will be fewer ATMs in the future, that the problem does not exist at the moment. It is the responsibility of the bank itself to protect and secure its own business as effectively as possible. It cannot transfer its costs to the general public funds. One or two extra police cameras are not supposed to be placed around each bank with an ATM at all. It would be absurd to take such additional measures for this problem. The banking sector itself is responsible for this. The puff squats have been in the Netherlands for much longer and there they were also more intensive. Big gangs have been active there. When additional measures were taken, they crossed the border to the west of Germany. Now we see the same phenomenon on the Belgian border. I hope that gang gets busted in full fast. I am not under any illusion that the problem will be resolved quickly, but that it will be sufficient to keep the problem as small as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u54	Minister, the Flemish Region currently has traffic checks at 27 locations on regional roads and at 3 locations on motorways. The Flemish Government confirmed in 2017 and January 2018 that additional route checks are planned in 2018 at 37 locations. These are 34 locations on regional roads and 3 locations on motorways. These are mainly fixed cameras that are converted into digital cameras, which control the average speed over a traveled journey. In the past it has been found that vehicle number plates would be unreadable for camera dynamometers with number plate recognition. This was true both for certain number plates which were difficult to read for the ordinary eye as well as for hard-to-read number plates, for certain personalised number plates and for number plates of certain motorcycles. There was recently the example of fines that were issued for traffic offences of a car with the official ministerial license plate A-10, which later turned out to be a West-Flemish entrepreneur whose car had the personalized plate A-IO. Apparently even the cameras are wrong between the number 1 and the letter I, and the number 0 and the letter O. First of all, has there been a problem with unreadable number plates since 2015? Was that especially about numbers that were difficult to read for the ordinary eye, about hard-to-read numbers by sticking something over them or using a foil, or about personalised number plates or motorcycle numbers, with which there were also problems in the past? Secondly, can you give figures on this from 2015 to now? Thirdly, do you know whether penalties were regularly issued to the owners of wrong vehicles on the basis of footage with license plate recognition? What measures have been taken to this end? Fourthly, can you report figures and trends for speeding violations in route checks from 2015 to now? Are there also regional differences? Fifth, can you report figures and trends for speeding violations that have been established by classic speed cameras, mobile and semi-mobile radar controls from 2015 to the present? Are there also regional differences? Sixthly, what is the way forward? Has the processing been more automated than before? In the past, a question has been asked by my colleague Vincent Van Quickenborne. Finally, have any additional agreements been made since the Flemish Region will carry out additional route checks? I would also like to ask the question for the other regions, but I assume they invest much less in route control than the Flemish Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u55	As an introduction, I would like to stress that your question is relevant not only in the context of the route checks planned at Flemish level, but also, of course, in the framework of the national ANPR network, which this government decided in 2016 and which aims to combat both serious crime and terrorism, but also to increase road safety through a large number of road checks. It is logical that the performance of these 1 000 cameras depends on the quality of the cameras and ANPR software on the one hand and on the quality of the number plate on the Belgian roads on the other. For this reason, the government decided in September 2017 that the necessary measures should be taken to optimise the legibility of the Belgian number plates by ANPR. The problem of the number plates is situated in different areas. The often poor quality of the front number plate; certain combinations of personalised number plates, deliberately designed to hinder readability; and generally the characteristics of the Belgian number plates such as colour, font and syntax that are not optimized for correct identification by ANPR. In doing so, count dirty number plates or number plates with false underlying relief, and you will understand that there are several possibilities to improve the accuracy of the determinations. In consultation with the cabinet of colleague Bellot van Mobility, who is responsible for the adaptation of number plates, it was decided to have a study carried out by Vias, which is to evaluate the legibility of the Belgian registration plates by ANPR cameras. The results of the study, which has just begun, are expected by the end of the year and should enable us to develop the necessary responses to the problem. I will now answer your questions, Mr Vermeulen. I'll start with the first two questions. Indeed, the problem of unreadable number plates still exists. There is no data on the proportion of each of the reasons for the unreadableness outlined, but the most common reasons for not being able to draw up a report for immediate collection are as follows: the registration plate is dirty; weather conditions, for example overlit by low sun; the mark of the vehicle is not visible for full identification, e.g. at night; or the registration plate is not fully legible, e.g. when the country code has been inserted. You will be given a table showing the overall percentage of photocopiers for which no report could be drawn up for immediate recovery. In 2015, this was 2.95 %, in 2016 it was 2.41 % and in 2017 it was 1.8 %, i.e. a decrease to low figures. As for your third question, the federal road police currently have three regional processing plants: Ghent, Antwerp and Namur. They take on board the determinations of route checks and speed cameras on motorways as well as of certain other cameras and of local police areas. ANPR cameras will automatically make a proposal of number plate to the operator via the software, which will then visually check that the proposed number plate is correct and validates it manually or corrects it if necessary, identifying the offender. For the flash camera dynamometers not equipped with ANPR, the operator shall visually determine the number plate and identify the owner of the vehicle through the DIV database. Although a human error cannot be ruled out, the error rate in this area is very low due to human intervention. Conflicts mainly result from errors in the DIV database or from criminal use of forged or stolen license plates. By means of a simple procedure, a wrongly verbalized person can submit a defence on the website www.verkein.be if he does not think he is the offender. The case will then be reviewed through a subsequent investigation. I will email you the figures in response to your fourth and fifth questions. Sixthly, as already explained in my answer to your third question, the determinations of route checks are delivered entirely automatically to the processing centres. The import of data for further processing is also completely automatic. The identification of the offender, the detection of the offence and the preparation of the minutes still requires human intervention. Since 28 March 2018, phase 2 of the CBE project of Justice, better known as cross border, has entered into force. As a result, the handling of the immediate collection is further automated, and outsourced to bpost. Seventhly and finally, for the time being no specific arrangements have been made for this, but it is clear that for all planned trajectories, including those in the context of the national camera shield, the extent to which regional processing centres can be responsible for processing will be examined. In the meantime, there is also a fourth regional processing centre for the Brussels-Capital Region which will be able to be used for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic942x.u57	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Maingain's question was postponed to 26234.
