ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic888x.u1	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as agreed in this committee last week, I am reporting to you today on the status of the case concerning the facts of the Walloon Brabant killers. Our last meeting in this regard was on February 6, 2018, three months ago. Such a case requires rigorous monitoring by the actors concerned, each within the framework of its legal powers. I will also reply to the oral questions put by Mrs Lambrecht, Mrs Özen and Mr M. Van Hecke. On February 6, I announced the strengthening of the investigation team at both the police and justice levels. This strengthening is being implemented. This means that now – or in the very short term – 30 investigators and analysts are operational on a full-time basis. At the request of Mr Van Hecke, I give some explanation of the research cell. There's one responsible and one deputy to the research cell. We're working in five teams. The first four teams each receive certain research components that they fully develop, so that each team knows part of the file perfectly. The order in which the investigations are conducted shall be determined by the investigating judge, in consultation with the persons responsible and the team chiefs of the different groups. The fifth team, which we call support/appui, focuses mainly on the further analysis of the beliefs, as well as on the listing of the information received and the incoming tips. In addition to these five teams, there are currently two analysts and two assistant analysts at work. Finally, there are the so-called experts. These are the survey chiefs of the investigations that were carried out at the time and which have already come to an end, but still have a close connection with the file. They look at the file from the findings they have previously made in their file. The contribution of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office is also a fact acquired since the federalization of the investigation a few months ago, in close consultation with the investigating judge. In Charleroi, a comprehensive investigation plan was developed and a targeted strategy is being followed. In reply to Mrs Lambrecht's question, I can say that I did not, of course, draw that judicial inquiry towards me. As a minister, I have no power to prosecute in this matter. However, I was concerned about this, in the sense that I insisted that the necessary resources should be made available, which is more than worthy of the researchers and the victims of such facts. The investigation team and the court work very hard to achieve results. It is precisely after an in-depth analysis of the various elements of the investigation that the size of the investigators' team and the profiles of the investigators could be established with knowledge. Following the developed strategy and the research plan, there is the will and conviction to reveal the truth, whether fully or not. In this context, the people concerned have told me that they want to bring the matter to trial within this and three years. You are aware that one of our first bills, Pot-Pourri I, was the extension of the statute of limitations for the prosecution of this type of crime. It was at the end of 2015. If we wish to reach a final judicial decision by the end of 2025 and given the existing judicial procedures, including limitation periods, the trial must be initiated within three years. Ladies and gentlemen, some of your oral questions deal specifically with the content of the criminal case and its conduct. I will not dwell on the content, progress and results of the investigations and on the ongoing judicial investigation. So neither did the recent data appear in the press. I would therefore not only violate the secret of the investigation, but also hinder the strategy and progress. An untimely communication may also lead to a potential collusion. The new impetus that has been given to the investigation must not be mortgaged by revealing secret judicial information. The research now deserves the serenity that needs a happy ending. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, so far my brief communication on the progress of the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic888x.u2	Minister, you replied very briefly on a number of points. I believe I understand that you cannot reply in detail because the investigation could then be harmed. But it is at least remarkable that we read on 27 April that the persons involved in the investigation leaked that the slope to the possible giant is 99 % dead, and that two days later, on 29 April, you stated through the VTM that the researchers are working hard and that it should come to trial within three years. Now you say that it makes sense to say this, because then the limitation period has been reached. But I do not think it makes any sense to say this in the context of research and in order to preserve serenity, especially since we know that under extremely exceptional circumstances you could find allies to extend the limitation period. I do not think we should focus on those three years and then tell the people that the process will be there in at least three years' time. Mr Minister, do you maintain your position that you can make such statements in your capacity as Minister of Justice, while we receive many answers to the questions that we have asked in answer to the question of the separation of powers in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic888x.u3	Minister, we had decided on a method of work that you had to keep Parliament informed of the status of the matter. Unfortunately, I often find that you first make statements in the press and then parliamentarians have to ask you for more details about these statements. Last year, you had not been very careful in your first statements about the giant's track. You have raised expectations and hope among the families of the victims. It is therefore all the more surprising to hear today that investigators no longer believe in this track, which was presented as the most important. Today, it falls into the water and, at the same time, you say that you have the hope of seeing the Brabant killing file lead to a trial within three years. Are these statements not premature? Very careful care should be taken, especially for the victims, who are rightly waiting for answers. Like everyone else, we do not want to compromise this investigation. I think that in the future it would be much more prudent to talk to Parliament first than to make statements that give false hopes to the families of the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic888x.u4	Minister, I have tabled my question not only in response to the news about the bonkoffsky piste, which apparently came to the media in some way, but also in connection with your statements of 29 April in conversation with the VTM news editor. You made news there with your surprising announcement that there could be a trial within three years. Given that a procedure is very complex, this means that concrete results must be presented within the year. Many people then wonder on what basis you can place that. Minister, I hope that within three years there will be a trial and that it will not be a trial with hardly any defendants in the defendant's bank, for example, because they have died. That doesn't alter the fact that I find your statement dangerous at the same time. After all, you are creating hope again, and victims and relatives want to grasp every sparkle of hope in order to be clear in the file. If you say there will be a trial within three years, you will create hope. And that's dangerous. I do not know if you will still be Minister of Justice in three years' time, but if you are still Minister of Justice - I will put it in my agenda - you will be asked again about the statements you made on VTM News on 29 April 2018. They'll haunt you for three more years. We must be careful not to give false hope to the victims, because they have received signals of hope over the last few weeks, months and years, and it has always ended in disappointment. We must take this into account. You're pleading for serenity today, as you did then. I understand that, too. Such a complex dossier needs a certain peace and certainly not leaks. On the other hand, if you create hope and clearly indicate that interesting slopes are being explored, you also feed a bit of speculation. Maybe that's not good for the serenity of the file either. You have already answered questions. Allow me to make a few small comments. As for the composition of the research team, thank you for the information. I understand that the team is now fully assembled, as you announced earlier. What is new to me is that there are also experts who have already worked on the dossier at the time. They have, as you described, a close connection to the file. I conclude from this that it concerns detectives who have already worked on the dossier before and have now been re-fished. Could you explain the reasons why they are specifically called upon? If they are so good and can make such a valuable contribution, why were they kicked out of the team at the time? Are there sufficient guarantees that those detectives, who followed certain slopes for a long time, will also approach the data with new insights and a fresh look? Are we not in danger of getting back into the old slopes? Minister, I have another question. How does cooperation between those involved proceed? We discussed this last time. Many parties need to work together: the original investigators, the investigating judge, the federal prosecutor, who is involved for the first time, the Attorney General, the Security of the State, the ADIV and the P Committee, which was recruited for the police-state watch section. Thirty years ago, the National Guard was under Defense. Is cooperation with the Defense Department, at least those who had insight into the documents of the time, going well? What are the experiences of those in charge today? Finally, Minister, in our previous exchange of views we referred to a slope which was also launched by historians. They have declared their willingness to carry out historical research into a number of partial aspects of the dossier which may be useful to gain more insight into the much broader issue. I believe those experts are still willing to do so. Have you had time to think about that? Do you still think that piste could be useful in the file? In the end, the decision must be taken by the investigating judge or by whom the case is in charge, but in my view that is still a very interesting offer, which certainly can bring new elements to the surface, regardless of whether the piste was buried or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic888x.u5	Minister, if you were asked to come back quickly, it's obviously in connection with your statements on the Brabant killers file. I imagine that you realize the hope that you raise with the families of the victims in particular, but also with all those in this country who want – and we are of course part of it – the authors of these dramatic facts to be found. When you speak live on television saying that there will be a trial in three years' time, that gives rise to enormous hopes. You know that. Why? Because, in concrete terms, in the coming weeks or months or at the latest in the year, arrests and acts will have to be carried out. This means that important objective elements available to the investigation team were brought to your attention, which prompted you to make this statement. I don't want to get into the secret of the investigation, but I'd like to understand. You talk about a three-year term on television. Do you have any objective elements that you do not need to disclose and that push you today to make this statement? Or was it simply the investigation team that informed you of this delay? It would not be a question of creating false hopes, as there have been many in this case for decades. Each time, hope re-establishes within families and then leads to disappointment. We saw it again with the Bonkoffsky track, which, according to the press, seems to be 99 per cent "crazy". The statements you make in this case are particularly sensitive and important. I would therefore like you to tell us whether you have any objective elements on which to base such a statement, without obviously going into the details of the investigation. I fully understand that you do not wish to intervene in the investigation, but there have been leaks in the press. Investigators spoke out saying that the Bonkoffsky track is set at 99%. Can you confirm these statements without commenting on the content of the investigation? Do you confirm that the investigators put this trail aside? At least one door is closed! In a way, it also pushes forward this highly complex investigation. Again, much hope has been created since the end of last year with these revelations and debates in the press. All the lawyers and you spoke on the TV sets. The expectations were enormous, especially in the head of the victims' families. The last point I wanted to put forward – I know that you have already spoken about this last February, but I agree with my colleague Stefaan Van Hecke's request – is the possibility of using a panel of historians who could help, as they did in other investigations for facts that have never been clarified and for which they have been very useful. Is this still a possibility today? Last February, you said we were thinking about it. What is the status of this reflection? Indeed, this possibility could be interesting in parallel with the ongoing investigation. The idea is not to replace the latter, but to work with historian experts, who are used to ultra-complex records and which go back far in the archives. We would give them some investigative power so that they can also help find a solution in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic888x.u6	Minister, I am glad that as Minister of Justice in 2018, you are still working on informing Parliament. You are giving an update on an investigation that should have been resolved 30 years ago. After the autumn of last year everyone got hope again we were put back on the ground a few weeks ago. A lot of clues towards Cristian Bonkoffsky as the giant turn out to be another dead end. At least that's what we were allowed to hear. To what extent is the coverage correct that Christiaan Bonkoffsky is almost certainly excluded as a member of the Gang of Nivelles? I was allowed to question your colleague Mr Peeters in Parliament two weeks ago because of your absence. Your colleague dismissed those questions for the reason of the secret of the investigation. You will undoubtedly do the same now. You can't say anything about that. I wonder whether the secret of the investigation does not allow you to at least tell us whether there is simply insufficient evidence or whether there are elements pointing in a different direction. I believe that with an answer to that question you are not violating the secret of the investigation. If you say that a trial can take place within three years, you are actually replying implicitly, but you are not saying in what direction. Can you guarantee that there will be an effective trial? I hope you can guarantee that without violating the secret of the investigation. If it is simply the intention to create hope, then I would find that very unjust. That would be very bad, not only for the justice system but also for the many victims. Can you somehow, without violating the secret of the investigation, guarantee us that the hope you create here is not vain? As I said, this news once again provided a very emotional moment for the victims. I'm from Aalst myself, and I know some of the victims' children personally. I feel that very strongly. They will then come to me as an ordinary Member of Parliament, but especially as Aalwesten. That raises new questions. Were the victims informed of this news in advance? Did they have to hear that through the media? In the past, you have done a number of correct work on information meetings on victims. Have you done this now or are you planning this in the near future? And then I have a very specific question that has been burning on my lips for months. I would like to hear you say what needs to be done with these many tips. It is really not out of the blue when I tell you that people come to tell me, as a simple Member of Parliament, but I therefore suspect other members of the Justice Committee or other people who are involved, that they have some sort of tip, but simply do not dare to tell him. Quite specifically, months ago, when the news of the Reus came out, I received a phone call from someone who said he was working in a lab and was almost certain that the samples had been switched, but just didn't dare say that. Is that true or not? Probably the Justice researchers receive daily tips that they already know in advance that it is yet another one who thinks they have a solution. What do they do with such tips? Can you guarantee that every tip will be dealt with? Moreover, can you also guarantee that tippers, witnesses are protected? I hope you will be able to provide that guarantee, because if it is not, I think today is saying that there will be no trial in three years' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic888x.u7	Minister, if I have understood you correctly, you have said today and earlier in the media that you should only share the efforts of the investigators to clarify this dossier and, if possible, bring it to justice within three years. I think this is an exercise that we all share with you. The victims must be able to trust, not in the least, that every effort is made to find out the truth. In this sense, we must respect the secret of the investigation. I only hope that what is being practiced can actually become a fact. If that is not the case, if we do not manage to deal with this dossier within a reasonable period of time, then we will have to consider at some point whether such serious crimes are subject to limitation. However, Minister, I hope that we will not have to ask ourselves this question and that the dossier can still be clarified. We owe it to the victims and their families.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic888x.u8	Mr President, Minister, I have one additional question because we hear from you and from other Members that the main objective here is the great serenity of the victims and the investigation. However, this serenity is constantly being broken by the leaks from the judicial authorities, which also put you in a very difficult position in your capacity as Minister. My specific question is as follows. Is there any action against those leaks that come from the judicial authorities over and over again?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic888x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all allow me to say something about leaks in general. During the past legislature, we have drastically increased the penalties for breach of investigation secrecy and professional secrecy with your cooperation from six months to three years. It goes without saying that this increase has a deterrent effect on those who leak that information, whether it is correct or not. On the other hand, we have anxiously guarded the source secret. These are two things that are very difficult to reconcile. You may all understand that. That is the first general answer I would like to give to your question. With regard to the specific leak in the case in question, I can say that the investigation team involved in the case is convinced that the leak is not coming from its centre. So if it were a leak that was based on truth, which I do not know, it certainly did not happen from the investigation team that is currently working on the case. I am a little surprised that I am accused of not coming to Parliament enough. I think that there have rarely been ministers, Mrs Özen, who have come to present their plans to Parliament as I have done for the justice plan or the re-consolidation plan. Even with regard to the killings of the Walloon Brabant, I came to Parliament before speaking to the press. At the Bonkoffsky events, I first came here, you know that very well. And then I came back. You cannot say that I am not informing Parliament in due course. Nobody asked me if I thought it was a good idea to come here today. I was summoned and I came. Therefore, what you say is not correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic888x.u10	You do not speak in Parliament first, you speak in the press first. And then we'll call you to get the details.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic888x.u11	Mrs Özen, at the time of the Bonkoffsky case, I first came to Parliament and you know that very well. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic888x.u12	I read the press like everyone else. I'm learning about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic888x.u13	That's not fair! I shall now proceed to the substance of the matter. When we decided in 2015 to extend the limitation period, the enthusiasm was less than great. We then made that decision with the conviction that it would still be possible to find out the truth and justice in this file. We tried that. It is true, and there is no one here who could deny that, to say the least, Mr Bonkoffsky's affair has given a new spirit to the file, which has allowed a new research team to be put on the file in collaboration with the investigating judge in Charleroi and to federalise the investigation. I believe that Mrs Van Cauter has correctly summarised this. The question arises as to whether such crimes should be made permanent. I have already said on previous occasions that I am prepared to think about this, for example in the case of sexual offences, especially when it comes to child abuse, because the victims sometimes remember matters much later. Sexual abuse is not the subject of today's debate, but inexplicability is not indiscusable to me. According to current legislation, the facts are time-barred in 2025. Reminding me of the enthusiasm of 2015 I made a statement to make it clear that further press heisa is not now helpful, neither am I, as Minister, to make statements in Parliament even though I am prepared to come back as often as you ask at the moment when a dynamic and competent research team with new energy is working on the dossier. I do not have to explain to you that when a council chamber receives a case to deal with a court of law after a report by an investigating judge, followed by a case to the court of assistes, a possible cassation, and again in front of a court of assistes, we should not start too late. That's what I said. Mr Vanden Burre, am I supported by the researchers in my statement? Yes, I'm supported by the cell, Mr. Vanden Burre. Indeed, investigators do not work for nothing. It is not my intention to create false hopes at all. But I invite people to take a little distance and be calm about the case by not multiplying the statements in the press. I very much regret that this happened on the day I was in Paris and that Mr Peeters had to answer for me. Let us stop the statements and have confidence in this cell and those investigators who – I assure you – are very competent, great and work like crazy people. If they cannot solve the question, it may be done through the law on repentance: someone may one day declare something. On a RTBF show, I said there would be a "Repentis" project. I know it comes far too late, as you said in the press, Mrs Lambrecht. But you are tabling so many bills that it is impossible to go faster! Having said that, the law on repentance is on its way. You have conducted hearings on this. Therefore, every effort is made to that end. I honestly believe that this trial will take place. The cell believes it. Guarantee is something else. There are no legal guarantees or performance obligations. You know the whole logic of the prescription. Unless, in the coming legislature, Parliament decides to make this kind of thing imprescriptible, we will again face a problem in 2025. As far as I'm concerned, I calculate from a countdown with the support of the cell. As far as the victims are concerned, we organised a day of information, in December and February, with the federal prosecutor's office, which takes care of the victims, with the investigating judges, with the prosecutors of Liège and Mons to explain the situation. Obviously, there will be less and less detail during one or the other period or on one or the other day. But the Federal Prosecutor's Office, together with Mrs Pellens and Mr Lamiroy, is really excellent in this area. So I hope that trust is restored. Indeed, I understand very well that the people of Alost, Overijse or anywhere in Walloon Brabant are very disappointed by what has happened over the last thirty years. We're trying to restore confidence, but that's not obvious. As far as cooperation and experts are concerned, the following. Right now, and I'm not telling you a secret, the mayonnaise is taking very well. This means that the investigating judge of Charleroi, the people of the federal prosecutors and the surveyors work together in a very good atmosphere. The experts you spoke about before, Mr Van Hecke, are sometimes people who are close to retirement age, but who know the file very well and who do not run false runs. Through their knowledge of the story, they can make a special contribution to the solution. Finally, as far as the historians are concerned, I promised you that I would contact you. I have done so and am currently, for example, in contact with the professors Gerard and Van Doorslaer, but not in contact with them, and I have also clearly told them to do so in the course of the survey. Not to do so yet - because doubling the effects, having quite different approaches to the same file, it is not possible - but we must certainly hold these experiences and people "hot" to intervene, when and where necessary. But I told them, as I told you at the time, that I'm not for a combination of the two. Always ready to be convinced to the contrary, but it will be extremely complicated for me. Finally, I will deliver the e-mails to the committee if necessary. Ms Smeyers, for the information and tips please contact info.b-nevel@just.fgov.be or info.t-brabant@just.fgov.be. The federal parquet is also available day and night to receive tips. The names I mentioned are those of the people at the federal courthouse who can always be contacted through you or directly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic888x.u14	Is anyone else asking for the floor? ) The incident is closed.
