ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic801x.u1	Secretary of State, this is a question that I asked your colleague, Minister of Energy, who sent me back to you. I asked her how, as Minister of Energy, she was considering this alternative. Since she sends me back to you, I ask you the question as you have received it. I won't be longer in my explanation. This question is about giving me an idea. I hope you have a point of view on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic801x.u2	Mr Nollet, thank you for the question. You know that in recent months many research groups and stakeholders have presented various innovative ideas for the development of the North Sea. It was also the result of a participatory process that we created, on the one hand, for the revision of the plan for the development of marine areas and, on the other hand, as part of the development of a long-term vision for the North Sea by 2050. In this context, many parties have made proposals which have been sent directly to us or transmitted via the press. For my part, I am limited to the proposals that have been addressed directly to us. In this case, we did not receive such a proposal. When we talk about 800 km2, that means more than a quarter of the North Sea. Under no circumstances can it accommodate such a surface – and therefore the question does not arise. We have received proposals for the development of commercial projects from other clusters and stakeholders – such as "De Blauwe Cluster". In the process of revising the plan for the development of marine areas, we are seeing if we can see some of these projects succeed. We will then consult the committee for an opinion. Then we will discuss it again in the government and, finally, in parliament, so that you can decide on our choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic801x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. In any case, you inform us that there has not yet been a formal approach to you. You quoted numbers. If this project occupies a quarter of the sea surface, it's not nothing. As part of this general examination of the contribution of the North Sea to energy redeployment, I assume that you give sufficient space to the development of offshore wind, which is already technically mature. However, I do not know if you know by heart the one in the future plan. This will provide us with a perspective for other initiatives, but let us first operate what is already technically safe. I don't know if you have that information, beyond existing or scheduled parks. The last three have already been adopted. Maybe you intervened to lower the price. In short, have you been able to examine the availability of offshore wind by the overall plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic801x.u4	It is clear that offshore prices are falling. Realising this additional offshore site does seem to me to be an essential element in the energy pact. This would double capacity, i.e. 4 MW compared to about 2.2 MW currently, which would require an additional 180 km2. We have to find them! For this reason, we have made some proposals in the opinion committee. It examines feasibility. It will depend on this opinion as well as on the discussion around the 180 km2 to be found. We must also take international aspects into account. We have, for example, agreements with the International Maritime Organization. It is clear that some passages for ships cannot be removed. It's a very narrow space. I believe in it, but we have to find this space to be able to realize this extra offshore site.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic801x.u5	The 4.4 MW, is it now 2030?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic801x.u6	In the new marine plan, this ranges from 2020 to 2026. The whole thing is to find the necessary space. As I announced, we need to start a bidding process to find the private partner who can achieve such an offshore type at the best price.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic801x.u7	You're absolutely right. We must first find the territory and delimit it. Then the construction and production will follow. Production may be for 2030 but the reservation will obviously take place before.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic801x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, in the framework of the "Our Ocean" conference held in Malta at the initiative of the European Union on 5 and 6 October, 36 concrete actions aimed at improving the health, cleanliness, safety and security of the seas were decided by the European Union. These commitments, which amount to more than €550 million and concern activities worldwide, underline the European Union's determination to improve the situation of the seas and oceans. Mr Secretary of State, among these measures, which ones concern the North Sea and our coastline? What are the challenges specific to Belgium in this global fight for the defence of the seas and oceans? The means are important: more than half a billion euro spent on global measures. What will be the amounts for Belgium? Our coastline borders the English Channel, one of the world's leading maritime routes. What were the specific requests made by Belgium at the start of this conference? How can each of these positive efforts be integrated within the objectives of the climate agreement COP 21/23?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic801x.u9	Mr Flahaux, on 5 and 6 October the European Union organised the "Our Ocean" conference in Malta. The conference was held outside the traditional multilateral framework. This initiative was initiated by former Foreign Minister John Kerry. The 2017 edition was organised by the European Union with a number of themes that are also important to me: the protection of the marine environment, marine pollution, the impacts of climate change, sustainable fisheries, the blue economy and maritime security. We have already talked about these five skills, which are sometimes linked at the regional level, but we have found a way to work together. More than 430 commitments have been made by the individual Member States. We have taken two steps in the context of the sustainable development of the North Sea and the fight against marine pollution. We have, for example, an action plan to combat marine litter. The European Union is talking about commitments for more than EUR 7 billion for all Member States. It also develops programs in which both the Regions and the federal government must try to commit to obtaining subsidies. Some projects have already started, for example Fishing for Litter. These European commitments are not limited to Belgium or the North Sea but are broader in scope. Belgium must play its part and has extraordinary skills. Our representatives play an important role in the various international and European bodies in order to put Belgium at the centre of these programmes. We participated in this conference and made our two key commitments for the future. We are also present in the framework of climate negotiations within the United Nations. Here too, we will take on our responsibilities and highlight our skills and our willingness to work together to ensure that the future of our sea is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic801x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. They show how much this is a fundamental concern in your leadership. My question arose from the feeling that citizens should also be made aware of the protection of the sea.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic801x.u11	Madam President, Secretary of State, in Belgium, a driving licence is currently required for any pleasure craft longer than 15 metres and faster than 20 km/h. By analogy, driving a jet ski, for example, requires a patent because it is faster than 20 km/h. The same applies to a small fishing boat equipped with an engine exceeding 5 hp. But an 18-metre sailing yacht, on the other hand, can sail around our coast without a driving licence. According to my information, a reform of recreational navigation would be under way. This reform is important because, as you can see from the list of my examples, some of the regulations in place are insane. However, different boaters' associations are concerned that the new reform that is at issue is too complex and that access to water sports for the general public is, as a result, even more limited. Moreover, it is my responsibility that the various regulations are only partially accessible in German. With the translated elements, a German-speaking boater will never be able to pass the theoretical examination for the driving certificate, which, for its part, is organised in German. Mr Secretary of State, will we see to it that the new reform of recreational navigation is more accessible to the general public when it comes to implementing it? Is there already a timetable for the implementation of the reform? After this new reform, will there be universal regulation for all Belgian waters? Will it also be translated into German? If not, will it be possible to find an agreement, for example with Germany, to convert into a Belgian patent the Sportbootsführerschein identical to the general driving certificate and the Sportkütenschifferschein identical to the yachtman's patent?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic801x.u12	Mrs Jadin, thank you for this question in almost all languages. I will try to comment on the Sportküstenschifferschein and the Sportbootsführerschein. For the revision of this regulation, we have deliberately requested input and feedback from the sector during the process. The sector has therefore been heavily involved. On the basis of proposals made by the Federal Consultation Platform for Recreational Navigation (PCFNP), where the sector was represented, we organized a public consultation which received over 1,500 reactions. A large majority responded. The reform really aims at administrative simplification for boaters as well as for the State. We're going to try to improve security. It's important. In addition, account should be taken of the fact that the recreational navigation sector must remain accessible to the general public. For me, it is also an essential aspect. The input of the sector was therefore essential to maintain this balance. The entry into force for equipment and patents is scheduled for July 2018. Registration will come into force in January 2019. In April 2018, I will introduce the bill to the House. Then we can discuss it again. The rules of navigation at sea and on inland waterways will be aligned. That's a good thing, I think. They will also be aligned with the regulations of neighbouring countries. It's also a step forward. These rules will be reconciled to the maximum. Thus, a single record will suffice. The two documents requested today, namely the flag letter at sea and the registration document on inland waterways, will be integrated. We are also aware of the problem of translation into German and an approach has been taken. All legal texts emanating from the Federal State, such as the new law on boating and its implementing order, but also the recommendations of the PCFNP, will be translated into German and will be available on the website of the SPF Mobility and Transport. German shipping certificates, Sportbootführerschein and Sportschifferzeugnis are already recognized as equivalent to the general driving certificate. However, this is not yet possible for the Sportküstenschifferschein as the current regulations only provide for recognition of foreign certificates for inland waterways. However, under the new regulations, it will also be possible for offshore patents; boaters will be able to sail in Belgium with their certificate of maritime qualification. A Belgian patent will not be granted. There is equivalence, which solves the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic801x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. You mentioned the complexity of the matter and therefore the need to reform and simplify. Even if I do not sail personally, I think that is a good thing. We learn it every day. This is an important reform. I am pleased that you have ensured, through your administration, that the texts are translated, including into German. I imagine that this will be done simultaneously with the other two national languages.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic801x.u14	Question No 22695 by Mrs Pehlivan is transformed into a written question. Question No 22771 by Mr Demon was withdrawn, since he was not present and had not given us any information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic801x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, my questions have just been put and I have the pleasure of asking them. It happens very quickly, unlike questions to colleagues of yours, in which we sometimes have to wait a very long time for an answer. My first question is a very short one, but an important one. As part of the Blue Cluster, many companies, knowledge institutions and socio-economic actors will work together to see if they can do something around the North Sea through innovation and exports. They count on the Blue Growth to be recognized as a Flemish spearhead cluster. This will of course require further consultation with your Flemish colleague. Has that meeting taken place yet? Will the Blue Cluster be able to count on state aid from the Flemish Government? Have you heard anything about that? What's your input in that? What commitments are there to follow? How's that going?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic801x.u16	Mrs Dumery, many Flemish top companies have indeed united in the Blue Cluster. It's about companies with a global reputation. So it is important that Flanders recognize that spearhead cluster. That's Minister Muyters' jurisdiction. We have had contact on this, but it is of course an exclusive Flemish competence to grant the spearhead status. I can only fully support that from Flanders there will be clarity for those companies, that there will be support and support. What form it takes, material, financial and/or emotional, has yet to be looked at. It is, of course, up to the Flemish Government to decide how to deal with it. We have regular contact with the people of the Blue Cluster to find out how they wish to carry out some of their projects, what is needed for this, what accommodation we must and can provide for this, always within the framework of the marine spatial plan. We are discussing this. They will submit a number of projects. We have chosen to work with innovative project areas, in which some of these projects could belong, but it is important that the cluster also provides a clear economic underpinning, a clear sustainability test and a clear vision of the use of space. Plural use of space is also absolutely advisable. All these aspects, which we considered crucial in the drafting of a new marine spatial plan, will have to come back to the Blue Cluster's requests. After all, a blank cheque cannot be signed for the projects. They must always be tested against the marine spatial plan to see what is feasible and what can be achieved in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic801x.u17	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your very satisfactory reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic801x.u18	Madam President, Secretary of State, last month the long-term vision of the North Sea 2050 was proposed. It was a very interesting afternoon. I have also been able to make many very interesting contacts there. It was a good initiative. Based on the idea of a participatory and scientific pathway and with the aim of bringing together all actors involved in the North Sea, three core working groups were set up. That was explained very well there too. They worked on the themes of naturalness, blue economy and innovation and multiple use of space. In this way, a North Sea vision was achieved. How's it going now? Do I understand correctly that we will not continue with three working groups but will move on to one? That came from one of the panel members. How can we achieve this long-term vision in the future? Do you have any more clarity about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic801x.u19	Madam President, in the context of this work of the North Sea vision 2050, we have indeed tried to bring together all stakeholders, at whatever level, to add to them people from the scientific world, to ensure that we can really have a sound and informed story for the long-term vision. That's what worked. In terms of economy, culture, nature, sustainability and recreation, we have really got everyone thinking in the same direction. The preparation in three working groups has led to real reflection on three major issues. One of the most important findings of the journey was that there is a very high added value in bringing together all these competences, of all those stakeholders, of all those people who are close or distant to the North Sea. We must continue this work. There was a lot of demand from the people who participated in that work to continue. As Secretary of State, I have therefore set up the North Sea think tank, with a threefold objective: to broaden the scope of support, to define the North Sea issues and to form a breeding chamber to develop and follow long-term visions and to formulate scientifically-based advice on the North Sea issues. Those three core values are reflected in that. Everything will be more grouped and organized within that one think tank. I do not speak about internal work, but I think it is logical that all existing competences should be brought together as much as possible. I've cleared a start-up budget so that the North Sea think tank can sting away. OD Nature and VLIZ will contribute through the in-child deployment of staff. All participants in the North Sea vision 2050 will receive an e-mail to participate in it and see how we can continue to follow the activities of the think tank. The Presidency will be held alternately by VLIZ and DG Nature.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic801x.u20	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. The Committee welcomes the fact that the work will be more grouped and organised. From the panel meeting, I understood that we are dealing with different personalities. After all, everyone has his character. But it is important that we draw up that long-term vision and that we do not depend on who is in what place. We will have to keep a close eye on the subject and the objective, the organisation and the structure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic801x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, the multiple use of space in the North Sea is one of the sensitive issues, since everyone wants to use the space in the North Sea for themselves and prefers to see others excluded from it. You have repeatedly explained the importance of the multiple use of space: space is scarce and therefore, in accordance with clear rules, everyone must be able to use it in a sustainable and economic way. 40 spatial claims would have been filed. Have you made a list of these? Can we find it somewhere? You can certainly refer me to a website or send me an email about it. You don't have to explain that now. If so many claims have been filed, how do they get a place in a long-term vision? Do you have a timetable for that? Do you have a schedule? How will you deal with this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic801x.u22	Thank you for your question. Indeed, we have already received more than 40 spatial claims. I will also provide you with a list of those claims and of the projects submitted. It goes without saying that we cannot do everything we want on the small part of the North Sea that we have. We must also take into account a number of European and international counterintelligences. We are looking at how, in line with those core principles of that long-term vision 2050 and in line with the basic principles laid down for drawing up the marine spatial plan, we can make that puzzle. We're working on that. We are now on the advisory committee. We will then have to go back to the Council of Ministers, as I said earlier. Then there will be a consultation and we will finally come to Parliament. That's the order we follow. We're on schedule. You also asked me about timing a few weeks ago. The schedule we gave at the time is being kept. We are still on schedule and we have not yet been delayed. We will be able to conclude that process with this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic801x.u23	I thank the Secretary of State for the good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic801x.u24	We have exhausted our agenda on the issues. As Mr Franky Demon did not report, his question No 22771 was withdrawn. Secretary of State, we thank you very much for giving us a little of your time.
