ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Hufkens' 23543 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u2	The combined question No. 23767 by Mrs Jadin lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u3	Madam President, Minister, three weeks ago, the Belgian Military Magazine announced that the Belgian Defence Department will examine the possibility of setting up an elite women's unit. On the ground, male elite units face sensitive situations, such as questioning women, gathering information and shadowing individuals, which could be carried out more easily by women. In order to perform these tasks properly, it is therefore considered whether a female unit could be established, which would provide support to the Special Forces Group. During the previous legislature, my group tabled a motion for a resolution on gender diversity in the defence sector. It focused, among other things, on the participation of women in the military from the idea that forming heterogeneous groups increases the capacities of these groups because women and men have different skills. Minister, could you explain the proposal to set up an elite unit for women? What is your analysis of an elite unit for women? The Belgian Defence has Action Plans implementing UN Security Council Resolution 1325, entitled "Women, Peace and Security," which focuses on military missions where female participation is considered to be of great importance. What is the state of play with regard to the last action plan in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u4	Madam President, Mr Yüksel, the Special Forces Group has long since opened its doors to women in the context of gender enrichment. However, the Special Forces Group demands from the operators a very high and specific physical, which means that no female operators are active there until today. The initiative under study offers female military the opportunity to make a crucial contribution to special operations, which is needed to be more effective in the human domain. However, it is still only about a concept and a study. The aim of the project, therefore, is not to recruit a specific unit of women, but to integrate women where they could receive specific training of their own. As far as Resolution 1325 is concerned, for operations carried out by Defence in a multinational context, national directives and orders are drawn up with specific provisions on the gender dimension. The persons on mission are informed about the gender directives and receive specific training on the gender dimension. In addition, gender focal points are being developed. This relates to a function which is performed in a cumulative manner. In addition to advising the commanders of the detachments developed, they ensure the practical integration of gender into daily activities, e.g. searches. Projects were also launched with the aim of informing and training female applicants for a military profession with a view to carrying out the physical selection tests. Two sessions were started in 2017 and two sessions are planned for 2018. The initiative will then be evaluated. Annual reports on the national action plan 1325 to Parliament through the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed important to focus on the contribution that women can make to the elite units. You said there's a study going on. When will the results be known? What is the time frame for putting that element into practice in the special forces?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u6	Mr Yüksel, the intention is to train and integrate one shift of women this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u7	Madam President, Minister, I recently learned in the press that the health of the Belgian military would be in decline. Indeed, in recent years, it appears that the physical condition of the military has weakened, in part, as a result of injuries on the ground. In addition, there is a growing trend towards diabetes and heart disease among staff. To address this issue, Defence appears to have developed the MeNuFit (Medicine, Nutrition & Fitness) program for military fitness. Minister, have you observed an improvement in the health of our military through the MeNuFit program? What additional measures have been taken to improve the health of your department's staff both in Belgium and in theatres of operations? How is the expertise of the Medical Component (and the Queen Astrid Military Hospital) used in this context? Does this have an impact on our operational capabilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u8	Madam President, Mr Chabot, we must not believe everything we read in the press. She is always interested in declines but never in improvements. The purpose of the MeNuFit care program is to rehabilitate members who are subject to osteoarticular problems or overweight, or who have suffered an accident. A multidisciplinary approach is followed to improve the health of Defence personnel by involving various medical specialists (kinesitherapists, nutritionists, psychologists, ergonomists) with sports instructors. The military is individually supported. At the mission level, the Medical Component provides medical support to deployed Belgian troops. This is done with the healthcare staff of this component or with that of our partners, in the framework of international cooperation. The Well-Being Department of Staff promotes health and well-being by raising awareness among staff. It also promotes healthy eating in military restaurants. Additional measures to safeguard the well-being and health of serving members are the regular dispatch of prevention advisers to the various theatres of operation. There is also a periodic health assessment program that is carried out in symbiosis between Occupational Medicine and the Centre for Expertise Medicine (CME). For example, military personnel likely to go into operation undergo a series of in-depth tests within the latter. Age-related health issues have, of course, an impact on Defence's operational capabilities but have never prevented the achievement of the missions assigned to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answer. In any case, I agree with you that we should not always believe what is written in the press. But our role is also to read it and to inform us. For example, I also read that NATO would be conducting scientific research aimed at improving the physical condition and health of the military. I assume that the conclusions of this study will be shared with us in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u10	At the request of Mr Chabot, who is still expected in another committee, we shall first discuss his combined question with Mrs Pas.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u11	Minister, this year we will commemorate the centenary of the end of the First World War. For many years there has been a debate within civil society, but also within our Assembly, in order to rehabilitate the shootings "for example", in view of the horror represented by this conflict. The conditions of life and combat were such that the generals asked for examples, with the aim of holding the front and thus leading the war to its end. The reason for shooting these soldiers – from our three regions – was generally the refusal to fight. However, historical research now tends to show that these shootings have very often been the subject of judicial errors and victims of an unfair and biased trial. That is why it is high time for genuine reflection by our country, particularly with a view to rehabilitating these shootings for example, restoring justice, restoring dignity to families and restoring honour and the rights of these people. Other countries have already apologized, such as Great Britain or New Zealand. Minister, a study undertaken in 2015 by the Royal Military School is expected to return its results for the month of June. What are the conclusions? Do you intend to take concrete initiatives in order to bring this indispensable memory work to fruition? Thank you, Minister, and my colleagues for agreeing to ask this second question now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u12	Minister, I have repeatedly asked the Prime Minister about the possible restoration or apology by the Belgian State to the families of the Belgian soldiers who were shot during the First World War. Last month Mr Bogaert asked the Prime Minister about a state of affairs. From the reply we were told that Professor Horvat's study of some 70 pages on this subject was finally completed and that the last reading was under way. This study would then be handed over to the Scientific Committee, which would provide an opinion to the federal government on the issue. According to the Prime Minister, that would happen by the end of February, so today. Hence my question. The Prime Minister said that it was no problem to make the study available to Parliament. Can you then deliver Professor Horvat's study to the Members of Parliament, Minister? Has the study already been delivered to the Scientific Committee and, if so, has an opinion already been delivered by the Scientific Committee? What's the further timing in the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u13	Colleagues, a study was actually commissioned by the federal government as part of the 2014-2018 commemorations. In 2015, she was entrusted to Professor Stanislas Horvat of the Royal Military School, who is a specialist in these subjects. This study, once completed, was to be submitted to the Scientific Committee set up at the Federal Organizing Committee of Commemorations 2014-2018. Unfortunately, this study has not yet been fully completed. There is no final document yet, because Professor Horvat has been absent for a long time because of illness. However, Professor Horvat has confirmed to the KMS that he is finalizing his report and that he will shortly transfer it to the 2014-2018 Scientific Committee. Once the study has been provided to the 2014-2018 Scientific Committee, the Committee will provide an opinion to the government, which will make a decision on the matter. I have no problem with making the study available to those Members who wish it, once we have seen the final version.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u14	Minister, thank you for that answer. I had, of course, already read a motion for a resolution tabled on 12 December 2013 by four members of your political group. I also learned of the call for the rehabilitation of the eleven shootings, launched on the initiative of the Committee of the Circle of Free Thought. And most of all I read and reread Voltaire's thought which is heavy with meaning and which says: "It is better to risk saving a culprit than condemning an innocent".
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Professor Horvat's study has been postponed several times. There was always a problem with access to the sources. I understand, however, that this is a matter of urgency, because if you are ill, you cannot, of course, complete the report. However, I am pleased that this will be done shortly and that you are prepared to transfer the study immediately to Parliament. We therefore await the study and the advice of the Scientific Committee. Then I shall certainly return to this important matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u16	Mr Van Hees and Mr Hedebouw are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u17	Minister, we heard from the press that two proposals were put forward during the Crocus holiday to replace the F-16s of Defence, one by the American government and one by the British Government. The press also mentioned a different offer and billions of compensations related to that file. Can you shed some light on this? Who officially signed up to the public contract on the replacement of F-16 air combat capacity and associated support? Have you or the government received proposals other than those official entries? If so, whose? Do these other proposals contain financial data, such as prices or economic compensation? Finally, you have already communicated transparently on the follow-up of the procedure, but can you explain to our committee what the next steps will be in the coming months?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u18	Minister, the government has received a number of final proposals concerning the replacement of the F-16s. This would include proposals directly or indirectly, formally or informally, on compensation for the Belgian industry in case of ordering. With regard to compensation, we must always be careful, in view of whether or not it is enforceable, we do not want to be deceived in this respect. It is also important that the distribution of any compensation between the regions is correct. Flanders has been deceived several times in the past. Minister, what proposals are still in the running for the replacement of the F-16s? Do these proposals include, directly or indirectly, formally or informally, data on compensation for the Belgian industry? If so, can you tell us for each proposal what compensation is envisaged, how concrete these compensations are and what guarantees are offered, so that the anticipated compensations are actually implemented? Will the government provide sufficient guarantees and sanctions in the award contract to ensure that the premonitioned compensation will also be realised effectively? Finally, perhaps the most important question, how are the predefined compensations distributed among the regions? Does the government put forward a distribution key for this? If so, what does it look like? What does the distribution key for the regions look like directly or indirectly in the pending proposals?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u19	Madam President, Minister, as part of the replacement of the F-16s decided by this government, it was on February 14 that the best offers from the two remaining agencies, the F-35 American and the British Typhoon, were announced. The French proposal for a broad military and economic partnership, outside this procedure, is still pending. In plenary, the Prime Minister indicated that, following this best offer, the agencies responsible for the analysis will prepare a report. This step could take "a number of weeks," he told me. With regard to the status of the French offer, apart from this procedure, I have still not received a reply if it is not that "when the said report is drawn up, all the subjects will come to the table of the government". Minister, how will the analysis of the offers received by Belgium now take place? In this context, how will the industrial and economic interests of our country be analysed as well as the guarantees of a defence Europe? Finally, when should this procedure be completed and when will the government's decision be taken, including on the status of the French offer?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u20	Madam President, Minister, my first question is essentially the same as the previous one. On 14 February, the best and final sacrifices were made. In this respect, I would like to know the following. First of all, is the press report true that two offers were submitted? Secondly, is the French Rafale still a candidate to succeed the F-16? When will the government decide on this? Thirdly, what timetable do you envisage in the replacement file? How much time does the DOD need to study the best and final sacrifices? For when do you plan the decision at government level? So far, my first question. I come to my second question. The US Nuclear Posture Review (NPR) published on 2 February 2018 explicitly states that new American F-35 fighter aircraft will have a nuclear task. I quote: " We are committed to upgrading dual capable aircraft with the nuclear-capable F-35 aircraft. We will work with NATO to best enable................................................................................................................................................................................................ ' The NPR 2018 also reaffirms the presence of American B-61 nuclear weapons on European territory and makes it clear that the modernised B61-12 nuclear bomb will be available for European dual-use fighters from 2021 onwards. In addition, the US Department of Defence's budget explicitly states that since 2000 USD 384 million has been invested in nuclear infrastructure in Belgium, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Turkey. Of these, 154 million dollars are currently "under implementation at these sites for security improvements," while NATO recently agreed to an investment of 150 million dollars in European nuclear sites. First, what specific impact does this have on the successor's purchase file for the F-16? Does this mean that a possible purchase of the F-35 is equivalent to the choice for the dual-use fighters? If not, for what specific reasons? Secondly, can you confirm the amounts mentioned in respect of investments in nuclear infrastructure? What budgetary impact does this have on our own country? Thirdly, for what specific reasons was Parliament not previously informed about these investments? Fourthly, what impact does the mentioned timeframe have on the presence of B61 or modernised B61-12 nuclear weapons in Kleine Brogel? Finally, do you agree that the refusal to provide transparency on this issue runs counter to the progressive approach promoted by Belgium, in particular the progressive proposal 1 increase transparency measures? If not, for what specific reasons?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u21	Madam President, Minister, on 14 February, only two of the five government agencies initially retained by Belgium submitted their best and final offer to Belgium with a view to replacing the F-16s. The Air Combat Capacity Program (ACCAP) will now analyze these offers and evaluate them, based on the expected criteria and based on the detailed weighting in the RfGP, before proposing a decision to the government. Minister, can you give us more details on the schedule? Has ACCap started its work? When should she submit her proposals to the government? How will ACCap work? For example, will working groups be devoted to different criteria? Are the tenders received in accordance with the RfGP methodology? When is the government planning to make its final decision on this issue? Do you confirm that the objective is to announce this decision before the NATO summit in Brussels on 11 and 12 July, in order to avoid severe criticism of the level of defence spending in Belgium, which has never been so low as a percentage of GDP? Can you also tell us more about the content of the offers sent to the Belgian authorities? When will parliamentarians have access to these offers? As a reminder, the initial amount foreseen by Belgium is EUR 3.5 billion for 34 aircraft. What about the offers received for the F-35 and the Eurofighter? As you know, I, but also some members of the majority, mention the possibility that neither of the two offers received under the RfGP would be satisfactory, which would open the door to the French offer of in-depth partnership around the Rafale. Do you also consider this option? What is the status of the analysis of the French proposals today? I recall that France had proposed ambitious cooperation, unprecedented for France, and never proposed it to another partner. Finally, I will add some additional information to my questions. Minister, I do not know if you know that there is a very lively debate today in Japan on the price of the F-35. I read that in yesterday's Asia Times. Clearly, the price of the F-35s exploded compared to what had been promised in Japan. It increased from $90 million in 2012 to $137 million today. This is additional information on prices that are exploding. It is not the only country complaining about the F-35 price. Minister, do you have any information to tell us about the amounts involved for the aircraft proposed to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u22	I do not think I will say anything new today, but it is perhaps not bad that I repeat to the hard-earned how the procedure works. On 14 February 2018, the British Ministry of Defence, representing the Eurofighter Typhoon, and the US Joint Program Office, representing the Lockheed Martin F-35 A, submitted their best and final sacrifice to the purchasing team to replace our air combat capabilities. We didn't get any offers other than those two. With the receipt of the final tenders, representing 6,000 pages of detailed information, the evaluation phase of the procedure begins. Both tenders were received in accordance with the requirements of the Request for Government Proposal (RfGP) and contain the information requested for the evaluation. The ACCap team and the 33 experts involved in the evaluation started their work the day after the receipt of the offers. These evaluation experts are divided into seven groups that correspond to the seven evaluation areas or criteria mentioned in the RfGP, on page 21. The 30 experts from the Defense Department were appointed by the Chief of Defense. The three experts of the FPS Economy were elected by the chairman of the FPS Economy. Each expert shall have access to only that part of the tender that he or she evaluates. To ensure consistency in the evaluations, the purchasing team, consisting of five people, has a supervisory role. I can assure you that the Defense Department has done everything in its power to ensure that the working groups that will assess the offers work independently of each other. The 33 specialists have been well prepared for their task in recent months. They shall be provided with all necessary facilities and support to make a thorough analysis of their part of the tenders. The study and discussion of tenders shall take place in a secure department on the defence staff, which shall ensure that the information contained in the tenders is accessible only to the evaluators and the purchasing team. Neither my collaborators nor myself are aware of the content of the two offers. Furthermore, with regard to access to tenders, the legal requirements and confidentiality agreements signed with candidates will be respected. Moreover, the entire evaluation process was written down in an evaluation manual, which was sealed in the presence of the Finance Inspector and which will be delivered to the competent audit bodies at the time of request. This will ensure the necessary transparency. It goes without saying that the evaluators also endorsed the deontological code for public procurement. You will understand, ladies and gentlemen, that since neither I nor my colleagues have access to the specific offers, I cannot in any way comment on the content of the offers, nor on prices, Mr Dallemagne, nor on any economic return promised or whatever. The investment of EUR 3 526 000 000, in the economic conditions of 2015, was included in the military investment law for the period 2016-2030 and was also re-established for commitment in the general expenditure budget 2018, expressed in current euros, as required by budgetary engineering. So Parliament has already been able to give its opinion on this investment twice. The value for money, to which reference is made, is included in the evaluation process, because 33% of the points to be earned are translated into the total cost of ownership, 57% of the points goes to the capacity component and 10% to the protection of essential security interests. The protection of essential security interests should, of course, also benefit the Belgian industry. With regard to the modalities, I would like to refer to Annex D of the RfGP, which you will still find on my website in its entirety. You will find that no regional keys were imposed. I would point out once again that the former system of economic compensation is no longer accepted by Europe. The outcome of the evaluation of the two offers will be presented to the Government on a reasoned basis and it will be up to the Government to make the final decision. Mr Top, the findings in the US Nuclear Posture Review have no impact on the purchase file, for the simple reason that you will not find nuclear capacity in the RfGP. As part of that report, the Nuclear Posture Review also asked for investments in nuclear infrastructure. Well, of course, I can't comment on American figures. I can only assure you that no Belgian funds are involved. No one talked about the F-16s over Libya, so I am not going to read that answer. So, so much for my answer, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u23	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote from the new German coalition agreement. It says: "Die Bundeswehr beschafft was sie braucht, und nicht, was ihr angeboten wird." Our armed forces must be given the material they need and not what they want to apply to them. Of course, we are talking about billions of euros here, and that does indeed tickle a lot of hands. There are a lot of lobbyists, of all kinds of plumage, who try to steal grain. We hear the most absurd sales arguments. That is why I call on colleagues from all sides to keep a cool head and not to be tempted into practices that we used to know in the past with regard to military procurement, for which the committee of the same name was set up. This government replaces the F-16 in a very transparent way. The competition follows European and national standards. In fact, this approach is an example. Competitors are completely free to sign in. Some of them didn't. Some have communicated quite openly why they do not sign up, for example Sweden with Saab. Others do not want or dare to say why they do not sign in; that is their choice. However, I do think that there should be respect for the procedure followed and for those who sign up correctly. Minister, I look forward to the next steps in this procedure. I can only encourage you to continue as you are doing and, above all, to keep us further informed in the committee envisaged for that purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for repeating the procedure which we know in the meantime. My question was specifically about the economic compensations, which are not insignificant. It is also not by chance that Mrs Fernandez Fernandez emphasises the French offer, because it is linked to the Walloon jobs of the derivative of Dassault, the producer of Rafale. Your answer didn't help me. You do not solve the government's concerns as to whether it will build in guarantees or keys in this area. At the present stage, you do not want to tell us about the economic compensation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u25	Mrs Pas, I did answer that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u26	Yes, you have replied that you do not yet want to tell us about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u27	No, I said no keys are included in the RfGP. How clear can I be? Read the report later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u28	However, you do not want to solve anything about the economic compensation itself at this stage. In order to do so, we must await the results of the evaluations of both tenders, in order to find out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u29	Just like me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u30	We shall certainly come back to the matter. We ourselves will then calculate what the key will look like in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u31	Mr Minister, I thank you for this answer and for reminding us of the procedure which seems to be very structured. In your procedure, you're talking about two offers. However, unless I am mistaken, I have not heard you refer to the French offer. Do we have to understand that she was completely ruled out? Has the government taken a position on this French offer? The procedure seems to follow its course with the two offers that are on the table, namely Trump's or Brexit's. As for the societal benefits of these markets, I know that you did not quantify them in the RfGP. It is said, however, that this procedure can be changed at any time and that a concept of societal benefits for Belgian companies could be fully introduced. It's an important deal. It's 9 billion euros in public money from the Belgians. This government is hiring the country for several decades. It does not therefore seem indecent to me to ask for a return for Belgian companies, especially since some are at the forefront. I understand that we are moving forward on two offers and that, without saying, the government has ousted the French offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u32	Mrs Fernandez, you asked me how many offers I had received? I got two offers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u33	You therefore continue the procedure with two offers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u34	I'm continuing the procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u35	All right, I've heard and I'm decoding.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It may be interesting to refer to what you have not said. After all, we already knew what you said.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u37	Mr Top, you didn't ask for anything new either.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u38	Yes, I do. I note that the French Rafale, in your view, is not playing effectively. That was an answer to my second question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u39	Mr Top, I did not say that. I have said that we will continue the procedure with the tenders we have received. How can I be any clearer? We have received two offers within the procedure. So I'm gonna finish that procedure with the two offers. I will then give advice to the government and it will then decide. How hard is it to understand that now? I have said this in French and Dutch, I would like to repeat it again in English and Chinese, if that is what you need. Maybe it's necessary in German too. How can I be any clearer? There's an ongoing procedure. What normal person would be opposed to us completing the current procedure, which is as transparent as possible and in which it is evaluated, to ensure that everything is technically and legally well-founded? If the government finally takes a different decision, it will. You can't expect anything else from me, can you?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u40	Mr. Secretary, don't worry. I just want to help you confirm that there are two offers. I just want to help you with that. So I didn't get the answer from you. There is another point on which I have not been given any clarity, even though there is some improvement on what happened at the beginning of the reigning period. You don't pin yourself on timing. I didn't hear a deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u41	If you want the timing, I suggest you add the RfGP and the strategic vision. It clearly describes the timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u42	So I'm assuming you'll get that timing. Okay, thank you. I'll get to the non-answers. I note that there was no answer to my fifth question. So that's a confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u43	The argument that an answer is not a confirmation is, of course, a short one, Mr Top.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answer, which provided us with some information on the procedure. On paper, it is wonderful: you do not deal with this matter, which is dealt with independently. A series of experts are working on it. I don't have any comments to make on how the RfGP is going. The problem from the beginning is that this procedure forces us to go straight into the wall: it forces us to choose between two planes that are problematic. They are even problematic in relation to your vision of defence, particularly with regard to the construction of a true European defence and defence industry. This is my main criticism of this procedure. This problem is serious because it is political and strategic. This is neither a technical problem nor an air capacity problem. This is a truly central problem that affects what we are trying to build and, to a certain extent, what you have announced you want to build in your strategic vision. I hear you're stuck in this procedure, you've chosen and you're sticking to it. It poses major political problems. There is an exit door, visible in watermark. I heard it existed, even though others did not hear it. I therefore urge you to try to get out of this procedure which no longer corresponds to what we wanted. Maybe it was the beginning, because there were five planes running. At that time, maybe it was the right choice. But today I am convinced that this is no longer the case. I am truly convinced of that. We have a problem with that. You say you received two offers under the RfGP. That's quite right, but you forgot to say something, although you said it before. You have also received an offer of strategic partnership with France. It proposed a partnership described by the French as "unprecedented and unique with another country". You preferred not to analyze this offer at first. I'm sorry. I think it was better to analyze it in parallel to the RfGP. I never asked you to abandon the RfGP, but it was possible to open this discussion. For the combat planes, you refused it, but for the tanks, you accepted it! For the armoured personnel, you thought it was the right way to work with the French and that it was necessary to enter into a framework of strategic partnership, given the importance of acquiring armoured personnel. I will ask you a question later on because, in fact, it is rather a strategic abandonment! For example, we have a turret developed in Belgium that the whole world buys from us and we automatically turn away from it. I wonder what is the reason for this great heterogeneity in the procedures for the purchase of military equipment. I've already asked you about this. Madam President, I would like us to finally have a public debate on all these procedures because they are different each time. I do not understand the logic or strategy that justifies these different procedures. I am concerned that they do not correspond to the political and strategic objectives that are systematically announced. I would therefore like to know why there is a heterogeneity of procedures, but also why there is a great difference in the criteria. As you pointed out, the price of the aircraft is 33%, while in other contracts and other acquisitions the price criteria are generally much more important. With 33%, we can almost choose the plane we want! The other criteria are more difficult to assess – perhaps not for an expert, but for a parliamentarian. For a parliamentarian, it will be much more difficult to know whether the criteria have been defined in a completely objective manner. I would like us to finally have a public debate rather than in camera – as is always the case – on all our acquisitions. Why are the procedures different each time? Why is there no demand for a strategic partnership here when it is accepted for armoured vehicles? Why are the criteria different each time? Madam President, a letter will be sent to you and to the Chairman of the Committee on Military Procurement so that this essential debate can be organised in view of the political, strategic and budgetary issues on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u45	Mr Minister, by royal decree of 10 June 2014 establishing an honorary diploma in City or City Victims of War 1914-1918, as stated in the title of the decree, a diploma of honour was created for cities and municipalities that were particularly victims of war. Cities and municipalities were given the opportunity to submit a dossier for obtaining such a diploma if they considered that they were eligible. In the municipal council session of 20 November 2014, the city council of Puurs approved a decision to apply for a certificate of honor for the municipality of Liezele. This submunicipality was completely destroyed by the Belgian army in 1914 in order to clear the field of fire for the nearby fortress of Liezele. It goes without saying that the destruction of a complete village infrastructure has caused a great deal of suffering for the inhabitants. Although the application by the municipality of Puurs for the award of an honorary diploma was submitted almost four years ago, the municipality has still not received a conclusive ruling on this matter and therefore the honour diploma has not yet been awarded. However, it is sufficient to consult some historical works to determine the truthfulness of this event. Minister, how come it has taken almost four years now to make a simple decision on whether or not to award the named certificate of honour? This procedure is not clear to me. Perhaps you could explain which stages are to be completed here? Can you tell me the dates of the different stages in this award process of the application of the municipality of Puurs? How does the award of an honorary diploma take place in practice once the award is approved in principle? When will the municipality finally be informed of the award in this particular case? What measures are you considering to ensure that such awards can be made more quickly and, above all, much faster?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u46	The procedure concerning the award of the City or Municipal Victim Honorary Certificate of War 1914-1918 is indeed prescribed in the Royal Decree of 10 June 2014. In order to claim that honorary diploma and the matching memorial ribbon, any city or city may submit its application, which is a file containing the historical facts and photographs, to the Minister of Defence. That file will then be forwarded to the Historical Pool of Defense. In the event of a positive opinion from the Historical Pool of Defense, the file will then be submitted to the scientific committee set up by the organization committee of the Federal Government in charge of the preparation of the commemorations of the 100th anniversary of the First World War. Following a positive opinion from the Scientific Committee, the decision will then be settled in a ministerial decision. In the end, the honorary diploma is handed over to the municipality or city. As for your specific question about the municipality of Puurs, we received an application for recognition on 10 July 2015 in relation to the municipality of Liezele. That request was sent by my services to the Historical Pool of Defense. On 30 June 2016, the Historical Pool of Defence delivered a positive opinion. The file was sent to the Scientific Committee for advice on 2 August 2016, but we do not find any trace of the opinion of that Committee. A reminder will therefore be sent to the Committee so that it can deliver an opinion and proceed with the procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u47	Minister, it seems that it is not being followed very well, if an opinion has been delayed for two years. It is a pity that a reminder has just been sent to the scientific committee in response to a question. It is a pity that this does not happen more easily on its own. I can only hope that the communication will come soon. After all, it is 2018, 100 years after the Great War. If the municipality wants to organise another event, if it were to receive recognition, that would be a lot of work and it would be nice if it could do something about it this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u48	In your capacity as a Member of Parliament, Mrs Pas, you can, of course, say a few things. It is, of course, the case that the procedure is going on for so long. There's no excuse for the fact that it's taking so long. However, I must also point out that the municipality of Puurs does not seem to be very keen on the matter. After all, we have not received any reminder letters from the municipality of Puurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u49	Madam President, Minister, I had to put my question orally, because my written question was long overdue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u50	Madam President, Mrs Pas, I would like to ask you who you asked. After all, I do not have a written question which is answered too late. You must be careful what you say here. The best is telling you the truth here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u51	Minister, I asked you a number of questions in this committee one and a half years ago about the distorted language relations in the army. Then, together with me, you found that, within the budget and within the envelope, on 1 January 2015, the petty officers had 57 percent Dutch speakers compared to 43 percent French speakers. With the volunteers, the ratio was even worse, with only 51 percent Dutch speakers versus 49 percent French speakers. On 1 May 2016, one year and four months later, these distorted ratios were still the same. There was therefore no positive evolution for the benefit of the Dutch speakers. You were of the opinion that this was not good and that perhaps there should have been a different evolution. Another evolution would certainly have been better, because, as we know, the Dutch speakers account for about 60% of the population and the distribution of functions in the army is also based on an unofficial 60/40 ratio, but this ratio is not respected in practice. It is also remarkable that precisely in the lower degrees the imbalance is greatest. At these levels we need just the least skills, and it seems logical to me that we can find candidates for those lower degrees more easily, which may be more difficult for higher degrees. Mr Minister, can you tell me the current situation regarding the language relationships in the army, according to the various degrees, both within the budget and within the envelope as well as outside the budget and outside the envelope? What measures have you taken over the last year and a half to improve this? How do you evaluate these measures? And what additional measures will you take if necessary in order to achieve acceptable, correct language relationships at all levels in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u52	Mrs Pas, this is not the first time we have discussed this. I will repeat that there are no language frameworks in the Defense Department. The language ratio depends mainly on the number of movers and the number of newcomers. Unfortunately, we do not have any influence on the language ratio of the movers. It's hard for me to stop people from leaving. For the newcomers, read: recruitment, Defence assumes the needs we have. I'll give you the global figures and give you the full figures. The global figures remain: 61 percent Dutch-speaking officers, 57 percent Dutch-speaking petty officers, 51 percent Dutch-speaking volunteers, both for the military within the personnel envelope and the Defence budget as well as globally. As has already been said, the recruitment of new military personnel is our main lever for a different language relationship. Since my arrival, active efforts have been made to this end. For this purpose, Defence also works closely with a number of partners, such as the VDAB in the north and Actiris in the south.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u53	Mr Minister, I will read the figures, but if I have noted them correctly, I still do not see any improvement. Silence is decline, as it is popularly called. You say that you are working hard on this issue, but as far as my question is concerned, what exactly are the measures and how you evaluate them, I remain hungry. Maybe I'll have to table another motion of recommendation to step up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u54	Mr President, in the framework of the Airbus programmes, a number of envelopes were earmarked by the Belgian Government for the financing of research and development programmes for the Belgian aviation sector. In this context, a cooperation agreement was concluded in 2008 which agreed on a number of keys for the distribution of envelopes between the Länder. For the A350 it was 90 million euros, equally distributed between, on the one hand, Flanders and, on the other hand, Brussels and Wallonia. For the A380 it was EUR 28 million, of which 60% was for Flanders and 40% was for Wallonia and Brussels. Moreover, it also involved EUR 60 million, of which 56% were for Flanders and 44% were for Wallonia and Brussels. In 2010, the Belgian State released a further 58.3 million euros for the A400M. That amount has now almost been used up. However, 39.7 million euros of that amount went to Wallonia and Brussels and only 18.7 million euros to Flanders. The government decided at the Council of Ministers on 27 October 2017 to release a new credit line of €45 million, of which the amendment to the cooperation agreement states that €33 million will go to Flanders and €12 million to Wallonia and Brussels. For both credit lines, this amounts to a distribution key of EUR 51.7 million for Flanders and EUR 51.7 million for Brussels and Wallonia. In other words, Flanders receives only half of the funds allocated and is therefore poorly served, both by the federal government and by the Flemish government. Minister, how is it possible for the EUR 58.3 million credit line to go to Wallonia and Brussels with EUR 39.7 million and only EUR 18.7 million to Flanders? Why were these funds distributed on a joint basis and not according to the fair distribution key, as the original cooperation agreement included a number of keys? Were the Flemish interest groups heard in that division? What was their reaction? Will new credit lines be envisaged in the future? Are there better conditions for Flanders?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u55	Mrs Pas, I have listened very carefully to your question. I have great admiration for the research you have done. However, I do not see the extent to which I, as Minister of Defence, am involved in the dossier. In that context, I must remain guilty of the answer. If you look at the credit lines to which you refer, you will probably end up in departments other than Defence. Defense isn't involved in the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u56	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I'm continuing my research work. I will raise the ears of the ministers concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u57	Minister, a few months ago, China managed to send an encrypted signal via quantum technology. This led to a conference between Vienna and Shanghai, which was 100% secure. Quantum technology is, as its name suggests, the use of quantum principles in leading-edge domains, with digital technology being only part of its many applications. Nevertheless, it is in this area that this new technology can upset geostrategic balance. Indeed, the use of quantum physics in our computers would allow exponentially to enhance their computing power that could "cracking" any conventional computer codes. Applied at the level of a signal, it can make the signal completely indecipherable. China therefore appears to be considerably ahead of time in this technological race. The same applies to our neighbours across the Atlantic. Combined with private research organized by the GAFA, the development of quantum computers in the United States is also on the rise. The situation can be summarized as follows: on the one hand, the United States is developing a new generation of computers with a computing capacity capable of collecting any data while, on the other hand, China has an indecipherable Internet network. Minister, do you share this finding? Is the impact of quantum technology in the digital field really a new strategic change? Does our country study these technological advances? Is this reflection taking place at European level? Minister, thank you for your answer to this very focused but particularly interesting question, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u58	Mr Flahaux, in general, quantum technology is a promising technology with which, in the long run, the computing capacity of computers can be increased exponentially. This evolution can also have a major influence on data protection, for example by implementing quantum algorithms for information security or by setting up quantum computers for decrypting contemporary encryption algorithms. Some countries, but also some major private market leaders, commit considerable resources to the development of quantum technology. The first commercial products are not expected to be released for the next 10 to 15 years. Europe has also released EUR 1 billion over a three-year period for the development of quantum computing. In Belgium, a limited number of universities are involved in research on this technology. Rather, the Chinese test should be seen as a promotion of local research, based on its capacity for development, but limited to the use of a quantum network without using quantum computers. Developments in quantum technology and their possible impact on the cryptography sector are closely monitored by several multilateral fora. The safety requirements do not allow me to go into more detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to learn that the European Union has committed EUR 1 billion to deepen its thinking and research in this area. Finally, I am pleased to note that you are particularly aware of the importance of this technological development. We will undoubtedly come back to this topic in the coming months and years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u60	Madam President, Minister, the foreign terror fighters (FTF) represent a huge potential danger for many European countries, including ours, even though the terrorist organisation known as the Islamic State has undoubtedly lost military ground in Iraq and Syria. More than 700 names of men and women have, at one time, been recorded in the Belgian database of the jihadists and their close parties in these combat zones. Close monitoring of these people is crucial in the current context, even though they are still far from their country of origin, ours. In addition to the questions I have asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for the Interior, I have three questions for you, Mr Minister. How many Belgian foreign terror fighters, to the knowledge of the Belgian authorities and in particular of the Defence over which you have authority, are they currently detained in Syria and Iraq, either by the Kurdish forces of the YPG (Syria), by the Kurdish peshmergas of Iraq, by the Syrian authorities or by the Iraqi authorities? Could you give me the breakdown by category? I'm not talking about returns, but about those who are being held in local prisons in Iraq and Syria? How many women and children of Belgian jihadists are, to the knowledge of the Belgian authorities, kept in camps in Iraq and Syria? Finally, are there discussions with different entities and/or governments to deal with their cases? If so, who is in charge of these talks? Does the Defence General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS) play a role in these exchanges?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u61	Madam President, Mr Hellings, it seems clear to me that an intelligence service does not publicly disclose information in its possession. I can assure you that the SGRS, in collaboration with its partners, is taking the necessary steps to protect our people. It goes without saying that a follow-up of people who do not share our values is organised in cooperation with our international partners as well as with the actors in the field of security here in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u62	Minister, I thank you for this answer, although it is totally unsatisfactory from my point of view. But that remains an answer, as short as it is. You're talking about people who don't respect our values. It's worse than that. These people represent a real danger to our security. I hear that the SGRS and perhaps other bodies, I hope, are following these people extremely closely. I understand that you have difficulty giving the number of people who are being followed by your service in a public meeting. I will therefore transfer my question to my colleague De Vriendt, who will put the same question to you as a special committee responsible for monitoring missions abroad, which, unfortunately, is being held in camera. Minister, we have every interest in showing that government services are at the service of the security of citizens. In your place, I would not hesitate to say how many are present in Iraq and Syria and how our security services work to stay in the Belgian government's radar. I repeat: not only do these people not share our values, they represent a real danger to our democracy and our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u63	Madam President, Minister, from 16 to 18 February this year the Security Conference took place in Munich. The historic purpose of this annual meeting is to seek a pacification of international relations. This year's conference was named "To the Brink - and Back?" In other words, the themes discussed were intended to provide answers to how to recreate an international order following the many crises of recent years. Yet, through the speeches of the various participants, it is clear that the objective is not really achieved and that the minds are far from appeased. The threatening speech of the Israeli Prime Minister, Benyamin Netanyahu, on the last day is a perfect illustration of this. I could also mention the criticisms on the Ukrainian issue, the disagreements on the situation in Syria, but also the differences on the development of a European defence. Mr Minister, can you clarify to me the reasons for the absence of a Belgian delegation to this conference, which I believe is an important event on the international scene? What are the impressions of your European counterparts on the international situation following the various exchanges during the three days of the conference? What are the differences in the development of a European defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u64	Mr Flahaux, the Munich Security Conference is a private initiative, to which a number of political figures, but also civil society organisations and, above all, industry, are invited to discuss various subjects, mainly focusing on current and future security issues. This year's key topics have apparently covered the future of the European Union and its relations with Russia and the United States, as well as conflicts in the Middle East, in particular the war in Syria. The discussions were marked by the consequences of the latest US declarations on relations between NATO and the European Union. The current international crises, such as relations with North Korea and Syria and the Israeli-Palestinian crisis, or Ukraine, have also received much attention. Although it is true that some representatives of different Member States have expressed different views on European defence cooperation, an important common perspective has nevertheless been put forward. The German Defence Minister stressed the need for a common European strategic culture, stressing that the military component should be accompanied by a strengthening of foreign policy visions. This view is shared by the French Minister of Defence, who insists that the operational aspect will consolidate Defence Europe in the future. It calls for the development of a certain strategic autonomy while ensuring that NATO remains the organization guaranteeing the collective defence of its members. European defence budgets must be used wisely. This is an important issue in the years to come. Each year, the organization produces a detailed public report of the conference. I invite the honourable Member to consult him as soon as he is available.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u65	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, this conference is a private initiative, but as you pointed out, it has benefited from the presence of two ministers – two women, I stress – from the two most important countries of the European Union, Germany and France. This shows that it is important to be there too, and I can only plead for Belgium to be there. In addition, we are a nation of balance, which always finds solutions between divergent positions. This was the case with regard to the French and German positions, which were, at this conference, somewhat different. It is important to be there, but you reassure me that there are, beyond differences, interesting angles of approach that can advance the development of a true European defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u66	Madam President, Minister, our government has recently announced its plans to acquire new French combat vehicles for the ground forces. An amount of EUR 1.1 billion was mentioned. The Belgian company CMI, which specialises in tank turrets, is excluded from this market, although it supplies in particular the American army. Minister, what will be the real and concrete economic impact on employment if Belgian Defence signs with a competing CMI company? What is the status of the buying negotiations with France? How could CMI contribute to this market? Does any French supplier have an industrial anchor in Belgium? Finally, in terms of maintenance and provision of spare parts, what will be the economic benefits for Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u67	Madam President, Minister, Belgian industries feel abandoned by the "Purchasing" part of your military programming law. This sentiment was confirmed last week by the press release of the Belgian military company CMI about the purchase of 500 armoured vehicles for the Earth Component. I have already asked you many times on this subject, but your majority refuses to hear from your colleague in charge of the Economy to take stock of this issue, as well as the other aspects of the military programming law. If I believe the press, you are now showing reassurance. I quote: "It is clear that there will be participation by Belgian industry at a level acceptable to us." Your answers to my group's previous questions, particularly with regard to this very specific dossier, had never been in this direction. While it is essential to ensure transparency and compliance with European regulations, I regret that, whatever the object – Air, Earth or Sea – of the colossal investments envisaged by your government, the industrial interests, in terms of research and development and, above all, of employment of the Regions seem far removed from government concerns. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. What are you doing in the process of purchasing armoured vehicles for the Belgian army, particularly in terms of Belgian economic and industrial aspects? What are the developments since the passage of this file into the Special Committee on Military Purchases and Sales? What do you mean by an "acceptable level" of industry involvement in this issue? Have you met the Belgian industrialists concerned? On which criteria are selected the companies that are consulted for your department's purchases? Finally, in the same spirit as my colleague, I would like to know how procurement procedures are defined under the military programming law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u68	Madam President, I have already mentioned the content of this issue in the debate on the replacement of combat aircraft. Thus, Minister, I do not understand the logic of the procedures adopted by your department concerning the acquisition of new heavy weapons by the Belgian army. With regard to the acquisition of armoured vehicles, you invoke, by entering into an agreement with France that would produce weapons, the inutility of prospecting the market, the importance of establishing a strategic partnership with a close ally. You recalled that the European treaties allow you to proceed in this way with the acquisition of state-to-state defence equipment. I have no problem with that, but it is very surprising because, on the one hand, regarding the acquisition of fighter-bombers where a strategic partnership would be even more opportune with close allies convinced of the urgency of a European defence, you have chosen not to proceed in this way. And you thought it was legally impossible. On the other hand, with regard to these armoured vehicles, a strategic partnership would have consisted rather of the acquisition of Belgian technological equipment by close partners. Indeed, for once, the Belgian industry is developing a major technology, which is highly appreciated worldwide. In this case, in my view, it is not a strategic partnership, it is a strategic abandonment. Minister, how do you justify such a choice among our internationally recognized and competitive companies? One cannot help but notice that this technology is developed in Wallonia. And that it is ruled out from the outset. The acquisition of French armoured vehicles reduces the possibility of acquiring French combat aircraft at the same time and significantly increases the possibility of purchasing F-35 partly built in the Netherlands. It cannot therefore be prevented from believing that the acquisition of French armoured vehicles according to a procedure which has not been chosen in any other major case of acquisition of heavy equipment by the Belgian Defence (not for mine fighters, for drones, for frigates, or for combat aircraft) falls within the scope of the three-band pool: the purchase of French armoured vehicles in order to be able to exclude France from the market of the century represented by the acquisition of fighter-bombarders. Therefore, can you explain what, in your opinion, justifies these changing choices in the procurement process? Why is what is defended as a procedure for the purchase of armoured vehicles not for fighter-bombers or vice versa? Why do you choose an in-depth partnership for armoured vehicles when we have the technologies ourselves and reject it when it is proposed to us for fighter-bombers, accompanied by important societal returns to Belgium? You recently wanted to be reassuring – other colleagues have referred to it – that there would be acceptable participation by the Belgian industry. I do not know if this is still possible since you have already made a strong commitment to this strategic partnership. On the other hand, I do not know what you mean by "acceptable partnership" of the Belgian industry?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying that I am somewhat astonished. Indeed, this is the first time that parliamentarians have specifically intervened to question me about a society. It's something I've never seen before! In addition, we have already had several discussions about working with the French for our land force. However, I see that there are problems today. But I will answer the questions that have been asked of me. At the end of June 2017, the government agreed to launch a so-called Camo program, which aims to renew Belgian Defence's motorized capability. This will be achieved through a strategic partnership with another country. Indeed, after research carried out with different NATO and European Union countries, it turned out that only France, via the Scorpion programme, was able to provide us with a partnership as envisaged in the strategic vision, as well as within the time frame foreseen for that vision. We've done some preliminary research. We studied the market. We found that only one choice was possible. I'm trying to explain to you the differences in procedures, Mr. Dallemagne. The market in question is completely different from that of aircraft. In fact, with this program, France is carrying out a similar renewal of its motorized capacity. The ongoing negotiations with France are therefore aimed at achieving a government-to-government contract – it is not a purchase! – which will make this strategic partnership a reality. We will not only buy vehicles, but we will also cooperate with France in several areas (training, logistical and maintenance support, training, configuration management, doctrine, etc.).), as is the case with the Netherlands in the context of the Navy partnership. The aim, therefore, is not only the purchase of combat vehicles but the acquisition of a very short-term capability. This means that, in addition to vehicles, there is a need to ensure access to operational data and procedures as well as to many other aspects such as doctrine, the concept of employment and support. By their nature, these elements cannot be supplied by industry but by a State. That is why a long-term commitment to an allied country in the form of a strategic partnership is logical. Such a strategic partnership ensures that future motorized capacity can continue to evolve over the long term in order to remain operationally relevant. This procedure, i.e. international participation, is authorised by the European Treaties and the European Directives, namely Article 13 (f) of Directive 2009/81/EC, among other reasons. The use of this procedure was the subject of an opinion of the Parliamentary Committee on Military Procurement. In addition, the government is also looking for an acceptable return for Belgian companies! We are looking for Belgian industrial partners who are ready to participate in this programme. This aspect of the programme is monitored by the SPF Economy. This industrial participation will be possible in the fields of production, maintenance and supply of spare parts. In addition, it can be carried out within the framework of the two programmes, Scorpio and Camo, throughout the lifespan of the weapons systems. On the question of what I mean by an acceptable level of participation by Belgian industry in this matter, I am pleased to say that the ambition is to achieve a 100% return on the lifespan of weapons systems. We must not be seduced by quick gains. We need to look beyond the period between now and the time of last delivery. Profit also lies in strategic partnership and long-term collaboration. The Camo team will consolidate the results of these negotiations and submit them to the Finance Inspectorate. Then I will present the file to the government and no information will be disclosed during the negotiation phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u70	Minister, thank you for your answer. If I were to translate it into two words, I would say that "the Members shouted before the blow", because we are still in the middle of negotiations. A partnership is always a good thing, especially if we want to move towards a European defence. We had concerns that Belgian firms might be abandoned but you are reassuring us. You are right to say that it is not just an analysis that is limited to the purchase, you must also take into account the entire project journey, including maintenance. Minister, I am pleased with your answer and will keep an eye on the development of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u71	Minister, I am not satisfied with your answer at all! Among the non-responses or inflated answers that you have produced in this commission since the beginning of the legislature, we are reaching peaks today! First of all, you are making a trial of intent to parliamentarians who wonder that one of the biggest Belgian defence builders – who provides the American army! – was not even questioned on the market. The choice of a company depends on the procedures put in place but I wonder why a certain procedure is chosen according to a certain market! For these vehicles, a partnership with France is preferred and a Belgian company is ejected, whereas for aircraft, we have not even responded to the partnership offer! As far as Belgian companies are concerned, these are obviously direct effects on the Belgian market, but it is also a business card. I do not find it indecent to think that Defence could be a business card for one of the largest Belgian defence companies. Indeed, Belgian companies are located everywhere in Belgium and not just in Flanders. I believe that this is not right and I fully agree with my colleague in his many questions about the market and the practice of double standards, of which we are spectators in this committee. This is becoming extremely disturbing. As for the trial of intent that you are trying to do to us, minister, we may be able to return it to you. Believe me, I will not fail to follow the file and re-examine you, even if you are egoizing yourself, when it suits you, to tell us that you can't give us any information. I still wonder why CMI was not, if only consulted, even if, later, the answer was: "This is not the right thing". I simply note that she has not even been consulted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u72	Mrs Fernandez, I will convey to the French that you are no longer in favour of this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u73	Minister, you can pass on whatever you want to the French. What is interesting is whether the French are really interested in this market because it is also a question that I ask myself. Perhaps you don't really want to talk to the French because then you might also have to answer some questions about the partnership that is being proposed to you under the aircraft contract. In this regard, your silence earlier was quite upbuilding.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u74	Minister, your astonishment surprises me. You are acting as if Parliament were not systematically concerned about these industrial jewels, and as if you, in Limburg, had not worried about Ford Genk or Opel. Or as if we hadn't been interested recently in Carrefour's fate. These are foreign-based companies, whereas in this case the company is based in Belgium. Allow me to be surprised at what I consider to be a near-failure towards a Belgian industrial flagship. I find unacceptable the way in which you deal with this concern of our Belgian industry. I will continue to defend Belgian industry, either before this committee or before others. This one is concerned much more than others. It has expressed public concern, and in these cases it is normal for Parliament to take an interest in the situation. That seems to me to be a matter of logic, minister. I imagine that in you, in Limburg, when industries publicly express concerns, you receive them and consider the reasons for their concerns. I will continue to do so despite the way you deal with these concerns. I come to the second point. As far as the strategic partnership is concerned, I could have taken word for word about what you have just announced for the tanks, applying it to the fighter aircraft. It worked even better for fighter planes, but you didn't choose to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u75	Mr Dallemagne, we have actually followed the same procedures. We started with an RfI, a Request for Information, just like the planes. It was my predecessor who started; he had an RfI made to know the market. We did the same for the ground forces. At some point, we introduce this RfI because we studied the market. For motorized capacity, we found that, within the time frame and within the concepts of strategy that we anticipate, the French expressed a wish. Maybe they were the best party we had to contact. That is why we have decided to move towards a partnership. At the aircraft level, as well as for the navy, an RfI was made, a market study showing that there is a real competition market offering multiple possibilities and different systems, etc. That is why we decided at the time to open a competition procedure: the RfGP. As far as the navy is concerned, an RfI was made with in mind this concept of mine hunter, mine countermeasures. It has been found that the market is mature and that five or six European companies can make an offer for the integration of the complete system. Here too, it was decided to open a competition procedure. It will be launched today. After signing with the Netherlands, it will be placed on the market. But when you say that it takes the same procedure for everything and that you present yourself as a defender of the Belgian industry, I do not understand why I am under attack. I said I wanted 100% return. If we continue to do so, we must also put our individual weapon on the market, launch procedures for things that we know are important Belgian competitors. The choice of procedure was made on the basis of the prior studies. At some point, we are entering some procedures, as we have done for aircraft, motorized capacity, as we are going to do for the navy. For all European regulations, we are trying to develop the necessary capacities within the deadlines and budgets foreseen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u76	Minister, thank you for these explanations. I must admit that this debate, in my view, is just starting. I hear you made a Request for Information. But I am obliged to believe you on word, since I do not know the conclusions of this Request for Information. To the best of my knowledge, neither the Inspectorate of Finance nor the Court of Auditors have such powers. It is an internal, opaque procedure that we do not have access to. You tell us that you have done a study, that that is why you with chosen a willing and strategic partnership. That doesn't suit me. I am not saying that the same procedure must always be applied. I never asked for that. I said I'd like to understand. In particular, I would like to know whether, for this request for information, the Belgian industry has been questioned, possibly in a consortium with other manufacturers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u77	We're talking from state to state. We can't do both. We have decided to enter into a partnership and negotiate. You are asking me today to give details of ongoing negotiations. That's not right! But it is clear that it is government to government. That's what we chose. As for the Request for Information we made for motorized capacity, it was presented to the Special Commission on Military Purchases and Sales. It seems that your group was not represented at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u78	Minister, I would like to repeat that I would like to understand the logic of each of the procedures. I would also like these procedures to be examined, if not by Parliament, then by an institution such as the Court of Auditors, so that it can tell us that this is a wise choice in Belgium's strategic and industrial interest, in the law and in accordance with the Treaties. Your explanations don't reassure me. I do not understand any of the procedures, and I am concerned about them, because they commit us to the budgetary, political and strategic aspects of the coming decades. I am concerned that a state-of-the-art Belgian industry has been ruled out from the outset for our future equipment. I think it would have been wise if they were not ruled out from the outset and, on the contrary, we were trying to value them, as they are valued abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u79	I'll give you another clarification. As you know, Mr Dallemagne, for every file submitted to the Council of Ministers, the Finance Inspectorate must deliver an opinion, which is then communicated to the Military Procurement Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u80	Yes, that's very good.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u81	You weren't there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u82	No, but I got to know about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u83	Secondly, when you say that the Court of Auditors does not have access to it, you must know that it is not an organ on which I can influence. That's your role!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u84	Don't worry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u85	Parliament is well aware that when the Court of Auditors asks for information from the Defence, it always gets it - but ex post, neither before nor during the preparation of a draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u86	Minister, at least you don't reassure me. I have, of course, read the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate. It is only indicated that a Request for Information has been introduced and on this basis a decision has been taken. For my part, as a parliamentarian, I find this information insufficient. This is even totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u87	But then I'll put everything on the market! Everything, for the building of the public!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u88	Minister, put yourself in my place! I'm supposed to control your action. But I can't do it, because I can't afford it right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u89	So be there when we come to give you information!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u90	That's a bad argument, because I'm here most of the time! And I have the documents. To put it clearly, in committee, we are not given more information than what is contained in those documents. Nothing more! In other words, there is no information in these documents that would reassure me of how you work on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u91	Mr Friart is not here to put his question. 23923. This means that we are still hungry for more news about the young military.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u92	Mr. Minister, the War Heritage Institute (WHI) was founded in April 2017, almost a year ago, and includes among others the Royal Army Museum and other sites that keep historical records or are important places to keep the memory of history alive. In the past, numerous questions about the Army Museum showed that there were serious management and staff problems. A written question I asked recently also showed an enormous linguistic imbalance of 177 French speaking compared to 85 Dutch speaking staff, which is 68 percent French speaking and 32 percent Dutch speaking. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, what is the reason for this imbalance? Secondly, what is the normal composition of the language staff in this institution? Thirdly, is the board aware of the problem? Does it have a plan to fix it? Fourthly, who supervises the proper implementation of laws and regulations at the War Heritage Institute?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u93	Mrs Grosemans, the linguistic imbalance within the War Heritage Institute is due to historical differences, but above all to the fact that the current workforce is the result of the merging of the various institutions forming the WHI. The military are also included in the overview by language system. The language imbalance will have to be eliminated through new recruitments. These will be done on the basis of the language frameworks to be drawn up and adopted. You know that the WHI is a new institution and the language frameworks still need to be drawn up. The WHI Board is aware of the lack of language frameworks and will ask the Management Committee for an update at the next meeting scheduled for 5 March 2018. As long as there are no language frameworks available for the WHI, there should be no appointments or promotions from the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control, which means a staff freeze. Our Government Commissioner will therefore ask at the meeting to submit the language frameworks to the Management Board for approval as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u94	Thank you for your reply, Minister. You know that there are always a lot of questions in this committee about the War Heritage Institute and the Royal Army Museum. Many groups consider it important, namely to maintain the memory. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the institute be properly managed, especially in terms of staffing. We have often noticed in the past that staff management is often the cause of problems. I have to say that I find it extremely painful that, in the event of such a great linguistic imbalance, the Management Committee has still not provided language frameworks almost a year after its creation. You say that appointments or promotions have not been possible in the past year, as the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring does not allow them. I think it is very positive that you, through the Government Commissioner, are asking for the language frameworks to be submitted to the Management Board as soon as possible. I will certainly check whether there have been no appointments or promotions in the past year. I will also come back to this subject on a regular basis, to make sure that the Institute performs its social tasks correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u95	Minister, last week, from 19 to 21 February, the meeting of the NATO Parliament took place in Brussels. You were one of the distinguished guest speakers, for which I congratulate you. One of the other speakers was Lieutenant General Carsten Jacobson, commander of the German Army and deputy commander of the German Army. He advocated a Schengen military zone in Europe to stop the bureaucracy surrounding European troop movements. As an example, he mentioned how only 20 lorries per hour are supposed to cross the border between Poland and Lithuania. A large military convoy consisting of 1 500 vehicles will take five days to cross the border. Several NATO officers and European Defence Ministers have already argued in the past for the establishment of a Schengen military area. In June 2017, the former Dutch Minister of Defence Plasschaert argued for this. Firstly, restrictions such as those on the border between Poland and Lithuania also apply between other European countries, such as Belgium and neighbouring countries? Secondly, what is the government's position vis-à-vis a Schengen military zone? Thirdly, have there been or have there been any discussions on this in Europe? Are you involved in those conversations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u96	Mr Buysrogge, I first have a somewhat technical explanation for the example that only twenty lorries per hour are allowed to cross the border. In the case of the movement of a military convoy, the number of vehicles in a set of vehicles shall be determined by the country of destination as part of a convoy or a larger crew and the interval between two couples. These data may fluctuate on the basis of traffic pressures, weather conditions and road conditions, among other things. For example, in most cases the number of vehicles per couple in Germany is limited to ten and the interval is set at fifteen minutes. This means that 40 vehicles per hour can pass in Germany. It's always good to wipe your own door first. The European Defence Agency (EDA) has established a working group on cross-border military transport since September 2017. The efforts of that working group will translate into an action plan, which will be submitted to the European Parliament on 22 March 2018. Of course, the Defense Department has contributed to the design of that roadmap. In addition, the Netherlands is in charge of the PESCO mobility project. We're part of that project. Mobility is also regularly discussed at NATO meetings. A great deal of work has already been done in this area, but we also have a lot of work to do. The government has not yet formally adopted its position. However, since in the past we have always been involved in the steady opening up of borders, including for military transport, I do not foresee any problems in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u97	Thank you, Minister, for the nuance of the German general's position. It is important that further steps are taken to minimise bureaucracy in training and transport. There must be as much consensus as possible. Everyone is talking about free movement of people and goods in Europe. It must therefore be possible for friendly nations to be flexible in dealing with them. From your answer, I would point out that steps can be taken in a short time. Of course, I will not fail to come back to this in a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u98	Minister, a NATO Council for Defence Ministers took place in Brussels on 14 and 15 February. What are NATO's plans in Iraq, now that IS has been definitively defeated or not? What other operations will be the main focus of attention in the coming period? How does NATO respond to the renewed efforts in Europe to revitalise a European defence? What is the response to Belgium's accession to the multinational MRTT programme?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u99	Mr Buysrogge, the Council of Defence Ministers on 14 and 15 February is important in the run-up to the NATO summit in Brussels on 11 and 12 July this year. The Council discussed the main issues relating to deterrence and defence posture as well as projecting stability. Outside the NATO Training and Capacity Building activity in Iraq (NTCB-I), advising and training Iraqi security forces and institutions, there was no operation or mission requiring specific attention after the previous ministerial meeting. It was only discussed when the operations were discussed. Ministers agreed to transform the current activity into a non-combat mission, but still supported by the international coalition against IS. This should lead to a clearer definition of military objectives, on the one hand, and political objectives, on the other, as well as better planning and coordination. The goal is to launch that mission at the next summit. During the session on NATO-EU cooperation, a subject which Belgium is putting forward as a priority for the NATO summit, some non-European countries, including the United States, Great Britain and Turkey, expressed their concern at being excluded from the projects of the Permanent Structured Cooperation, a concern which we also repeatedly expressed in the past. Ms Mogherini, the EU High Representative, noted that there was a procedure for access to PESCO projects through the Council if an external contribution means added value. This concern does not mean that the countries are reacting negatively to renewed European efforts, as the United States, among others, stated that the EU and the US are not divided and expressed their support for European initiatives. On the edge of the meeting, I signed the Memorandum of Understanding which officially introduced Belgium into the procurement programme for a European fleet of multi-faceted tank and transport aircraft, the so-called MRTT. This, in turn, is a good example of how countries can work together in concrete bottom-up to acquire capacities for the benefit of both the European Union and NATO. In particular, in areas which constitute NATO's priority capacity gaps, we must continue to work. The reactions to our accession were therefore very positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u100	Mr Minister, I hope that the not so many Members present will also read your reply. It is of course important that we make an international and, therefore, European profile in this area. I knew this was appreciated internationally, but it is important for the whole of Parliament to know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u101	Madam President, Minister, a new series of defence research projects has been supported by the European Defence Fund. You know how attached I am to this unification of European defence. This fund catalyses the formation of a powerful European defence industry. It stimulates defence capabilities and builds cross-border partnerships. Here are four projects supported by the European Union which, unfortunately, Belgium seems to be absent. Ocean 2020 project: The aim of this project is to improve surveillance in the marine environment by means of crewed or unmanned gears that allow a complete perception of the situation by combining many different data. The Ministries of Defence of Estonia, France, Greece, Italy, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom participate, which does not appear to be the case for Belgium. Project ACAMSII: This project focuses on the development of adaptive camouflage to protect soldiers from sensors operating in several wavelength bands. Participants came from Germany, France, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Portugal and Sweden, but apparently not from Belgium. Project GOSSRA: This project focuses on the coordination of the complex arrangements the soldiers are dealing with. They are equipped with different systems whose interoperability is crucial. The aim of the project is to create a standard method of connecting various components facilitating the design of devices compatible with existing equipment. It will be led by partners from Germany, Spain, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal and Sweden, but apparently not from Belgium. Project Vestlife: This project focuses on the creation of protective clothing for soldiers, which should be lighter, more flexible and more comfortable without losing any of their protective qualities. Spain, Finland, Italy, the Netherlands and Portugal, but not Belgium, it seems. Minister, what about the presence or absence of the Belgian defence industry among its European partners in these projects? Is there a problem of the competitiveness of our defence companies vis-à-vis their European partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u102	Madam President, Mr Flahaux, companies meet in groups to participate in each project. Thus, the Belgian company Luciad has applied for the Ocean 2020 project, but two other groups have been selected. In fact, the absence of the Belgian defence industry is a consequence of the groupings for which it has opted. As far as we can assess it, our defence industry has no competitiveness problem and there is no reason to doubt the result of this limited number of projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic828x.u103	Minister, thank you for this brief answer. I would, of course, like us to be involved in each of the major defence projects. However, I can understand that from the moment our companies join other firms that are not selected, we are not part of the selection in question. We must continue to encourage our firms to apply for projects each time. As for the fact that we are not retained, I can imagine that this is not always possible.
