ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u1	Minister, following the Sixth State Reform, driving training and the organisation of driving licence examinations are the responsibility of the Regions. This reform has been in force since 1 January 2018 in Wallonia and since 1 March 2017 in Flanders. In summary, the examination in the Flemish Region is more difficult and more expensive, first with the introduction of risk perception in the examination tests, both for the theoretical examination and for the practical examination, but also because of higher standards for rating. Review rates are also being revised upwards and will be indexed. The Flemish Government's decree of 20 January 2017 does not allow the examinations to be taken in French, but grants the candidate who does not have the Dutch language to have recourse to an interpreter appointed at his or her own expense (Article 3), which constitutes a discriminatory measure since the examination will therefore be more expensive for French-speaking people than for Dutch-speaking people. I live in an easy-to-use municipality and am therefore approached by French-speaking parents who wish to accompany their child who has passed the theoretical permit in the free sector, who must pass a training course which is only given in Dutch and at Dutch-speaking auto-schools. To this end, they must go to Leuven, Vilvorde or even further away! Most recently, you answered a topical question from my colleague Gilles Foret concerning the Federal State's appeal against the Flemish Government's order of 9 June 2017. You stated that the driver's guide training does not in itself constitute a condition for the issuance of the provisional driver's licence, which remains under federal jurisdiction. You said that you were making the necessary contacts to ensure a consultation between the three Regions. My question is therefore more specific than that of Mr.Foret, because it focuses on the rights of Francophones in the communes with facilities. However, I am aware that this is a matter on the edge of regional and federal jurisdiction. Mr. Minister, is there not, in terms of the theoretical examination, any possibility for French-speaking drivers residing in the communes to pass this examination in French without having to require the assistance of an interpreter or to pass it in the Brussels Region in that language? In the open stream, after passing the theoretical examination, is there no access to other auto-schools so that accompanying parents can obtain the sesame of this training in French?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Caprasse, as you mentioned in your question, an action for suspension and annulment has indeed been brought by the Federal State against the Flemish Government's order of 9 June 2017 on training in driving. The Council of State has decided not to grant the suspension requested, but it has not yet decided on the request for annulment, which therefore still remains possible. Therefore, the Flemish Region can ask the municipalities within its jurisdiction to check whether the guide of a candidate driver has been trained. On the other hand, I cannot answer your questions, since they concern examinations and training in driving, which have been a completely regionalised area since the sixth reform of the State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u3	Mr Minister, this famous sixth reform of the state once again has unfortunate effects, since it embarrasses the inhabitants of the communes with facilities. Apart from this example, I am also thinking of the problem of Sodexo service titles. This is not a matter for you, but I swear to you that Francophones are really being neglected because of this reform. It is forgotten that they exist, whereas they are the majority in these communes. We will therefore remain attentive. Can we hope for a cancellation? Indeed, if the Council of State does not grant a suspension, there is cause for concern. In short, I sincerely deplore this deeply unjust situation for the inhabitants of the communes concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u4	Question No 22546 by Mr Gautier Calomne was the second on our agenda and had already been postponed due to the absence of its author. I propose to turn to Question No 23139 by Mr Calomne, to which a question of which I am the author is attached. For once, I will not pass the last one, minister. I shall put it on the bench of the Presidency, since it is not controversial and we are among ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u5	Minister, the CEO of Belgocontrol proposes the opening of the company's capital to the Regions or to public actors such as Walloon and Flemish public investment companies. In this debate, my primary concern is to ensure that this public undertaking carries out its aviation safety tasks as efficiently as possible and in the public interest. You said in the press that you did not agree with Mr Decuyper's press release. I would like to ask you to elaborate on the federal government's position on opening up Belgocontrol's capital. Has there been any consultation on this matter between the CEO of Belgocontrol and the federal government? Finally, what is the status of negotiations with the Regions on a revision of the 1989 cooperation agreement on Belgocontrol services at regional airports?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u6	Madam President, in order to consolidate the financial balance of Belgocontrol and in the spirit of updating relations with regional entities, in full conformity with the European rules on the single sky, I am actively working, in accordance with the government agreement, on a renegotiation with the Regions of the 1989 Cooperation Agreement. I wish gradually to reach a balanced solution for all stakeholders, taking into account their expectations. The expectations of the Regions are essentially twofold: financial transparency and quality service. The transparency of the costs charged to regional airports is a prior request from the Regions concerned for renegotiation of these agreements. Contacts with regional offices have been devoted to this transparency for several months and Belgocontrol has been asked to provide information on the cost charged to each airport. The Regions are currently studying the latest data provided by Belgocontrol and are due to come back to me shortly. On this basis, negotiations on the revision of the Agreement may continue. It goes without saying that this negotiation concerns the regions on whose territory there are airports for which Belgocontrol provides a service. This financial element of the reflection is not the only point on which my firm is working in connection with Belgocontrol. In the context of an air traffic control market that is opening up at European level and new tools that are developing such as remote power stations, I would like to strengthen Belgocontrol's competitive position. On the basis of the fact that in order to consolidate its competitive position, a company must first serve existing customers well, I also wish to work on a contractualisation of the relationship between customer and supplier. This involves establishing level agreements (SLA) between the airports and Belgocontrol. Such contracts shall define the type of services to be provided and the rights and duties of each party in the event of non-compliance with the agreed provisions. As the partial or total interruption of services is not a guarantee of quality, the SLAs will address in particular the contingency, i.e. the guarantee of a Belgocontrol service at all times and at all times. In addition to the full cost of air traffic control by the Regions, the formalisation of the relationship between airports and Belgocontrol in terms of services, I would like to go even further. This opening of Belgocontrol to its customers should be accompanied by an integration of the Regions into the capital. The different stages of the process leading to this result are as follows. Firstly, the transparency of Belgocontrol vis-à-vis the Regions, this stage is still under way. Secondly, negotiations on the costs to be borne by the Regions and on the level of quality of service guaranteed. This step has been initiated and is expected to continue as soon as Phase 1 is completed. Thirdly, in parallel, the process of converting Belgocontrol into a public limited liability company must begin according to the legal framework provided for this operation. Since this is, in particular, a negotiation process in which the federal government is not the sole decision-making player, I am not going to engage in a closed timing. In all cases, it is up to the shareholder, i.e. the State, to take this decision, which must also be decided by the board of directors. It was in this sense that I commented on the CEO's statement. Indeed, in a company, it is important that management and shareholders remain each within the scope of their respective prerogatives. Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answer. We heard the CEO. We know how many years the cooperation agreement with the Regions has to be renegotiated. We know Wallonia pays, not Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u8	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u9	Yes, a game. Not completely. We agree on that. It is true that the agreement on cost transparency is necessary. But this is the first step. This agreement must therefore be renegotiated. Secondly, it will be necessary to examine how to move forward with the introduction into capital. You also talked about the service guarantee. Do I have to understand that you want to introduce a minimum service at the level of Belgocontrol?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u10	No. In fact, the regional airports request that Belgocontrol undertake to take over all the "tour" operations and assume the consequences related to the possible interruptions of traffic.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u11	However, these were long negotiations!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u12	It is not a question of a minimum service, but of commitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u13	Everyone knows what "to bear the consequences" means.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u14	Here, we are talking, for example, about the companies that turned against Charleroi airport because of the financial costs to be borne.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u15	We agree. This means that these negotiations on Belgocontrol's assumption of the service guarantee are not simple. Subsequently, the debate on the transformation into a private limited company with all the consequences for the concept of service as well as for workers and their status will come. All of this deserves a real public debate. I therefore hope that such a debate can take place in Parliament on all these amendments. But first, let us try to settle this cooperation agreement, which has been on hold for a very long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u16	Minister, on 20 April 2017, I asked you a question about authorised supervisors at schools. The reason for this was a tragic accident in Bruges caused by a heavy truck. The management of the school concerned stated that the lack of clarity about the rules governing authorised supervisors, in particular the ministerial letter from the Minister of Mobility, prevented her from using authorised supervisors. You replied: "I am aware that traffic conditions and mobility have changed considerably over the last few years. More children cycle to school, the school environment is more saturated, the police cannot do all the traffic tasks, there is more road traffic and so on. As a result, I do think it is time to review the rules on authorised supervisors. Work on the revision of the traffic rules will cover the status of authorised supervisors. I think this will be before the end of the year." Mr Minister, have the rules on authorised supervisors been changed so that there can be no more discussion? If so, how is the new status of authorised supervisors defined? Has a new letter been sent yet? If not, when will the revision of the Staff Regulations take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft revision of the Road Code is currently being modified by my administration in the light of the comments made at the meeting of the Working Group. The intention is to submit the draft to the Regions for advice at the beginning of March. A possible revision of the letter will only be discussed when the draft revision of the Road Code has been published in the Belgian Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u18	Mr. Secretary, I have a question to ask. I understand that it is not complete, when you said that it would be ready by the end of December. At the beginning of March, the draft opinion still has to be sent to the regions. When do you suspect that it will be published in the Belgian Official Journal? I cannot estimate how much time that will take. Is it in a few days or a few months after March?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u19	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u20	We are going to go to point 13, with my question number 23360. I can assure you that few people will be present today. Almost all questions are postponed, which irritates me somewhat. I'm starting to get tired of this attitude. However, I know the situation of Karin Temmerman, who is not a problem. Item 21 contains questions on the multi-year investment plan. We said we wouldn't treat them. After the exchange of views, specific questions will be asked. This is a generic question. Mr. Van Hecke was present throughout the discussion. I don't think we should answer that kind of question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u21	Madam Chair, there are some issues related to specific projects, such as those related to Binche Station. I can already announce that we will do some work at Binche station, but do we want to get into this kind of detail?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u22	In general, we had said no to the questions on the multi-year investment plan, because of the exchange of views. I maintain that I do not want these questions in general. In any case, their authors are absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u23	Mr Minister, following the July ruling, you announced the completion of an impact study on noise pollution at Brussels-National Airport. A public procurement procedure has been launched. The specification was published on December 1, 2017 but you received only one offer, and it was found not to be compliant. As a result, you announced that you would contact international offices to propose that this study be carried out. Minister, what are your steps? What is the new schedule for this study? I repeat that this cannot be a pretext to justify immobilism in this sensitive issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u24	Madam President, the first procedure resulted in a single request for participation from a consortium of which two of the four actors could not meet the independence requirement. The decision was therefore taken to discontinue this procedure and to resume in the form of a negotiated procedure, without prior publication, in accordance with public procurement legislation. In relation to this, I would add that the first opinion was published not only in the Bulletin of invitations to tender, but also in the Official Journal of the European Union. First, with the support of a law firm and my administration, we tried to identify different offices that could be affected by the new tender and meet the different market conditions. Following the in-depth analysis of a list of companies communicated by our lawyers and several experts, we contacted, in a proactive approach, a dozen companies located in Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, France and Belgium, in order to ascertain their potential interest in the market. We have thus contacted as many companies as possible that meet the independence criteria, in order to allow for wide competition. Prior to the invitation to tender, we therefore asked the companies to express their interest. At the end of this deadline, we received three positive responses. Other companies either refused or did not respond to the call for expression of interest. Last week, we launched the formal tendering process so that the three companies that have indicated their interest could submit their bids to us within 30 days. Once tenders have been received, the procedure will continue. A reasoned award decision will have to be made and communicated to the candidates. In order to do so, all the criteria of exclusion and independence must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u25	And so, we can wait for the decision, the designation for when?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u26	Late March, early April, I guess.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u27	Thirty days, then it's going to be in the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u28	The award is not made in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u29	Okay. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u30	Mr Minister, under the name of AnGeLiC, SNCB has for some time been studying the possibility of developing a suburban train offering around Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi. The suburban networks need to expand the supply of rail in a sensitive way. This enlargement is particularly necessary in order to improve access to cities. Today they are all faced with a very high level of traffic congestion. If we want to do something about this, we need to invest in the alternatives, including public transport. The train plays a very important role in this. I'm going to go into Ghent specifically. In the south of Ghent there really is a collision on the borders. For the highways in Sint-Denijs-Westrem there is a risk of complete saturation. The southern region of the city of Ghent is an important economic region. There are a lot of developments there, and there is a lot in the pipeline at the moment. So the degree of congestion will only increase there, especially if we have no alternatives. The infrastructure for the suburban network in the vicinity of Ghent is already there, especially in the south of the city. This area is located close to the station of Sint-Denijs-Westrem. That station was closed in 1984. Since then, however, many new companies and commercial centres have been established in this area. A reopening of that station thus fits perfectly with the philosophy and objective of a suburban network. Minister, what progress has SNCB made with the study on the development of the suburban network in Ghent? Is the reopening of the station of Sint-Denijs-Westrem also being considered in this context? Can SNCB provide a timing for the possible reopening of the station?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u31	The study on the introduction of a regional express network for the suburban area of Ghent was completed in 2016 and distributed to stakeholders. A number of proposals in the study have already been made. For example, the offer was improved in and around Ghent and a City Pass Gent was introduced. The former stop Sint-Denijs-Westrem is located on railway line 75, Kortrijk-Gent, where besides fast IC trains, connecting cities and larger municipalities to Ghent, only one local train passes, namely the L-train Ronse-Gent-Eeklo. SNCB informs me that the current possibilities for operating Saint-Denijs-Westrem by train are very limited. In addition, the project area around the former station of Sint-Denijs-Westrem has been quite expanded, which still requires post-transport. At the moment De Lijn already offers aftertransport from the station Gent-Sint-Pieters. For example, on working days the neighbourhood around the former stop Sint-Denijs-Westrem can be reached from Ghent-Sint-Pieters station at least six times per hour via different bus lines. Also the nearby area around Flanders Expo is already quickly and frequently accessible from Ghent-Sint-Pieters station. Tramline 1 runs up to ten times an hour between Gent-Sint-Pieters station and Flanders Expo. Due to the limited possibilities for train service and the high frequency supply of De Lijn from the station Gent-Sint-Pieters, the reopening of the former stop Sint-Denijs-Westrem is not advisable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, even if it is very disappointing. First of all, Flanders Expo and the station Gent-Sint-Pieters are a long way from each other. It is true that there is a frequent line to Flanders Expo, namely tram line 1. However, she walks to the other side of Sint-Denijs-Westrem. That's a whole different area. In addition, there are many trips to Gent-Sint-Pieters around Sint-Denijs-Westrem and around the station, and then possibly further to Brussels and other destinations. According to us and the studies that have been done in the past, the station really has potential to be part of the GEN. I would therefore urge you to look again at the problem. There is no point in exploring a suburban network and opening new stations. The station is there and the infrastructure is there. It is true that very few trains stop there at the moment or that very few local trains pass there. However, that is also because the station is not open and passengers cannot get on and off. Mr Minister, I repeat that your answer is very disappointing, especially because it shows that there is no knowledge of the field on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u33	Minister, the press has recently echoed the anger of the CGSP Cheminots de Bruxelles in the face of a desire by Infrabel to "reorganize" the maintenance teams. According to Infrabel, the aim of this reorganization would be to create mixed teams between those responsible for the maintenance of the railway and those responsible for the maintenance of the signs. The CGSP denounces having been confronted with the fait accompli: lack of consultation of the unions and validation, hidden desire for a restructuring plan with the aim of achieving savings, breakdown of powers, reduction of the number of engineers to subcontract their tasks to private companies. Following this finding, the union applied to HR Rail for conciliation. Why were trade unions not directly involved in this reorganization study? What are the objectives of this reorganization? Do you confirm that it will not lead, in particular, to a reduction in the number of engineers and an outsourcing of their tasks? Does Infrabel intend to merge certain positions? Given the specific nature of the field trades at Infrabel, is this possible? What would be the impact in terms of safety and quality of skills?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u34	Mr Minister, Belgium has 3,600 km of railway lines to maintain and renew on a regular basis. Infrabel, who is responsible for this task, has 10,500 employees, including maintenance agents, specialized maintenance agents and maintenance managers who, on a daily basis, whether it rains or sells, night and day, are responsible for the maintenance, repair and replacement of these tracks. The danger on the tracks is permanent. Infrabel reports show ten serious accidents in 2014, fifteen in 2015, twelve in 2016 and twelve in 2017. In a survey of the weekly Paris Match Belgium on 1 February, the maintenance agents claim to be exploited and feel insecure. According to them, the savings imposed on Infrabel, the pace of schedules and the ever-increasing pace are at the expense of their safety. The management of Infrabel was also questioned in this report. She believes that the testimony of the agents is at best exaggerated or, at worst, unfounded, and that everything would be done sufficiently to ensure the safety and good working conditions of the agents of Infrabel. Minister, do you consider, like the management of Infrabel, that the testimony gathered by this weekly is not well founded and, therefore, that they would not be based on any reality? In this case, to what do you attribute the infernal painting brushed by the article published in this Paris Match of February 1? What is the order of magnitude of the work that has been carried out over the last five years by private companies at the request of Infrabel, and for what amounts? How many interventions have been outsourced? The definition of a "service reason" would have evolved over time, to the detriment of workers. How should it be interpreted today? In reading the testimony, it is understood that a policy of rejecting responsibility on the next link would have been imposed on some members of Infrabel. Have you become aware of this phenomenon? Is this a security risk? What measures does Infrabel take to contain it? In your opinion, are the safety rules respected? Does Infrabel recognize that there are cases where the number of shareholders should be seven - in accordance with the recommendations of the safety regulation booklet 576 - when they are three at the moment? According to you, is Infrabel able to enforce the maximum number of working hours per week of workers? Do you consider the rates imposed on them acceptable? Do you consider that workers' equipment is sufficiently adapted to the most severe weather conditions? According to the article cited, the persons concerned regret that their work equipment does not allow them to face the cold and the rain and, consequently, to perform their task in healthy conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u35	Madam President, Mrs Grovonius, with regard to the reorganization, the maintenance of the capacity of the railway infrastructure, which includes maintenance activities and the renewal of components at the end of life, is, for the so-called "classic" network, organised according to historical models. However, the density of rail traffic continues to increase and the time available for intervention continues to decrease. This is particularly true for the Area Centre of Infrabel, which covers, for the most part, the Brussels railway node. A review of the organisation of work is therefore necessary in order to be able to continue to fulfil all the tasks assigned to Infrabel. Some services are scheduled at night or on weekends, when traffic is less dense. These adapted working conditions allow some work to be carried out with an increased level of safety due to less dense or absent traffic. As regards the consideration of safety, in any event, where the circumstances unfortunately do not permit the decommissioning of the tracks, other extremely strict regulatory safety measures are put in place. Worksheets are drawn up, inter alia, which provide for these safety measures, on a site-by-site basis. These forms are an essential tool for communicating between the line of command and the workers for all planned interventions. They are intended to ensure that the information has been communicated, received and understood by everyone. To further strengthen this safety, Infrabel develops physical devices aimed at increasing the reliability of the movement blocking procedure, by strengthening human devices by physical blocking acting directly on railway signs. With regard to a gradual reorganization taking into account the concerns of the staff, it is in this context that the new organization gradually set up within the Area Centre of Infrabel is part of. This development is based, at each stage of its implementation, on a participatory approach. Dozens of relevant staff have already been consulted in this context. To carry out their duties, staff members receive one year of basic training. As part of this training, Infrabel has developed a simulator to train them at best and in the most realistic way to function. The approach is intended to be more transversal and matrixal and partially frees itself from the historical silos between the different technical specialties. Thus, a new division has been established to promote internal synergies. It is responsible for the coordination and planning of all activities of the Area Centre. This new organisation will make it possible to strengthen the professionalisation of planning, but also to guarantee the independence of controls with a view to continuous improvement of quality. Infrabel informs me that the recognised organisations have been informed of this reorganization properly, at the level of the strategic committee of Infrabel, in September 2017. The volume of university and similar staff will remain constant. A change in functions is under way, in full compliance with European or Belgian rail regulations, on a voluntary basis. All new job descriptions are based on a balance between behavioural and technical competencies and areas of responsibility. The new multidisciplinarity of certain functions does not pose a safety risk. No managerial activities are outsourced. As far as outsourcing is concerned, and finally on your more specific question of work done by private companies, it is important first of all to clarify that strategic maintenance activities are not outsourced. For other outsourced activities, the security measures are applicable, as for all activities directly carried out by Infrabel, no more or less. The outsourcing of track maintenance includes, first of all, tasks that are not part of the core business of maintenance teams, such as maintenance of the vegetation in the slopes, or the installation of road signs for deviations during work at level crossings. Secondly, certain high-tech tasks requiring highly specialized personnel and sophisticated equipment, such as Foucault's ultrasonic and current rail control campaigns, carried out by a specialized train from abroad, will be outsourced. Thirdly, support services will be outsourced, such as logistical services for rail-road cranes. These are designed to support track crews for heavy handling. Fourthly, outsourcing of the targeted maintenance operations mainly to sideways, mainly to cope with peaks in workload. For the rest, all maintenance checks and visits are carried out exclusively by Infrabel staff, as well as most of the maintenance. In addition, only Infrabel's personnel are authorized to perform safety functions for technical train operators, factioners, work train escorts, road-rail crane attendants and workers responsible for carrying out the work. With regard to the amounts of the railway maintenance activities ordered by Infrabel outside, I give you the list that Infrabel has given me in the annex - for an amount of 93,609,000 euros over five years, I believe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for that specific answer. If I understand correctly, the trade union organisations representing the workers have been asked. I therefore do not understand why they are asking for a consultation with HR Rail. I hope the dialogue is still there. If I have heard you correctly, which reassures me, there will be no other tasks outsourced with this reorganization, nor will there be any reduction in staff or the number of engineers. We will control all of this in the future as it was our fear of a merger of positions. Whether there is job modernization, I can understand it with the evolution of the trades, but I hope that it will remain within the framework of training and that there will also be no loss of status or salary for the workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for these points of answer. What's still a little disturbing is that we feel like we're facing two versions of the facts. We're trying to get an idea of what we're getting from one side or the other. The situation described by the people on the ground was very challenging. You were able to provide me with some answers. On the other hand, some questions remained unanswered, in particular with regard to the overruns of working hours, the fact that there are not always crews, also with regard to workers' equipment. I didn't hear you on these things. I will probably have the opportunity to come back to you with these different elements. I have no doubt that the workers will be able to see the elements of the answer that you have given me and that they will be able to react usefully, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u38	Mrs. Grovonius, did you go to the simulator?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u39	Yes, we had a nice visit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u40	I wasn't there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u41	Yes, you were there. You had even settled behind the cleaning simulator.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u42	Yes, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u43	Yes, we did it with Infrabel. Then we went to inspect the ETCS controls. Few parliamentarians participated, but we were both present. It was a very useful and important visit. As usual, everyone wants us to organise visits, but we often have three parliamentarians. And they are always the same assiduous!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u44	Minister, the Benelux Parliament opened its meeting on 24 November 2017 with the railway agenda. A recommendation calling for harmonisation of ticketing and passenger information throughout the Benelux was adopted unanimously. It calls for the Benelux to become a single territory in the rail sector. The Dutch EurekaRail programme was presented as an example. Minister, what do you think of this idea? Does Belgium intend to follow the Benelux recommendation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u45	Dear colleague, I can confirm that the Benelux Parliament accepted on 24 November 2017 the recommendation on cross-border rail links in the Benelux and North Rhine-Westphalia with particular attention for the EurekaRail programme. With this recommendation, the respective governments were asked to create by the end of May 2018 at the latest a task force for the Benelux railway agenda which, in good cooperation between the Benelux governments and the Land of North Rhine-Westphalia, is responsible for the support and development of the EurekaRail programme for all rail relations in which it is planned to move towards a seamless travel between the different border regions. As you know, on 21 June 2016 in Rotterdam, I signed a multilateral declaration with my colleagues from the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Germany – in particular the Land of North Rhine-Westphalia. This statement is called "Cross border passenger railway services". It concerns the future of cross-border rail passenger transport, which must be seen as an integrated system of a high quality, including ticketing and travel information, designed to enable passengers to benefit from uninterrupted travel and in which we call more specifically for the improvement of cross-border rail transport within the framework of public transport between the four countries for the purposes of future sustainable growth of the economy of these countries. I would like to await the report of the coordination platform established in 2016 in implementation of the Rotterdam multilateral declaration, scheduled for the end of 2018, before creating new groupings. Within this coordination platform, possible improvements to seamless travel are already dealt with in a very comprehensive way. In the spring of 2018, a workshop will be organised with stakeholders from the international public transport sector on the topics mentioned in the Benelux Parliament's recommendation. The results of this workshop and the possible follow-up actions linked to it will be part of the 2018 end-of-year report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u46	Thank you, Minister. Long live anglicisms!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u47	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you on a regular basis to convey the concern of the users of the train who have to board Tournai and for whom the provision of services offered by SNCB is lacking in some respects. I had already told you of my fear of your wish to remove the counters at certain stations in Picardy Wallonia and replace them with automatic terminals. Today, it is with regard to the cessation of the sale of international tickets at the station of Tournai scheduled from 1 March that I am concerned. Indeed, the station of Tournai will soon be removed from its international counter which allowed users to buy a ticket for a journey leading beyond Lille via the TGV, Thalys, Interrail or Eurostar. In addition, automatic terminals do not allow for the purchase of such tickets. To obtain tickets, it will be necessary to do so via the Internet or via an international counter open at another railway station in the country, which is several tens of kilometres from Tournai such as Courtrai, Mons or Brussels. This measure has no meaning for a city such as Tournai which is located near the French border and where a large student community from France, especially from areas beyond the Lille metropolis, is present. The possibility for train users to buy their tickets at the ticket counter allows them to have advice, relevant information or even a better price, elements that a computer cannot guarantee. On the other hand, people of a certain age who are not adherents to computer platforms will most certainly be harmed by this measure. What concerns me is that the programme allowing the sale of international tickets is already installed on the computers of the ticket offices in Tournai and that the latter are, for the most part, trained to carry out this operation. Maintaining this service therefore does not cost SNCB one more euro! With an already reduced window service in Tournai since there is only one window left open in the afternoon, the end of international ticket sales is another step towards a lower quality service offering. Minister, do you confirm SNCB's willingness to end the sale of international tickets at Tournai station? If so, why remove a service that, if maintained, will not cost it more? Does this measure form part of a broader plan to reduce staffing by 2020? How many international tickets (outside cross-border) were sold in 2016 and 2017 at the stations of Courtrai, Mons and Tournai?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u48	Mr Delannois, I refer you to my answers to oral questions Nos 23171 and 23352 put to the Committee on Infrastructure on 31 January. I would add that it is only the sale of Thalys, Eurostar, TGV, ICE and Interrail tickets that is deleted. Other international tickets are still sold. As far as the station in Tournai is concerned, this represents seventeen tickets per week. What other stations were you asking me about?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u49	Courtrai and Mons.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u50	I don't have those numbers here. The sale is maintained at sixteen stations. It is deleted in Braine-l'Alleud, Bruxelles-Schuman, Ghent-Dampoort, Louvain-la-Neuve, Saint-Nicolas, Tournai and Verviers-Central. These seven stations are located not only in Wallonia, but throughout Belgium. So I repeat: we do not remove the sale of all international tickets. We delete the sale of Thalys, Eurostar, TGV, ICE and Interrail tickets. Other international tickets are still sold. As far as the station in Tournai is concerned, this represents seventeen tickets a week.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u51	In Tournai, it will no longer be possible to buy a ticket to go to Marseille, which was possible before.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u52	Thalys and TGV tickets, no. It is possible to buy them via the Internet. I refer to the answers to the questions asked. It is important to know that this is not just a paper. It's a logistics and it's advice. We found that the largest number of complaints related to counters where the least number of international tickets were sold. The most interesting ticket was not always offered. Experience and the number of operations result in good service. Selling seventeen international Thalys, TGV and other tickets a week, is it a lot or not? I'll let you enjoy it. In conclusion, I refer you to the detailed answers to the questions already asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u53	Minister, I think you are usually a rational person, but in this case I do not understand at all why you are defending this kind of decision. Indeed, it does not cost anything, and I guarantee you that Tournai's staff is trained. You have given some information about other places and you may be right about it, but about Tournai, that's not the case. When there is physical contact with people, in certain situations, the counterman gives a whole series of information for the purchase of a ticket at better prices, etc. I can give you examples. I therefore do not understand this decision at all, since it does not cost a single euro, and since the staff are trained. This advantage made Tournai an attractive station. You say seventeen a week is nothing. If we multiply this by fifty-two, it is not so little over a year, and it does not cost anything at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u54	Yes. I'll refer you to the answers. It actually costs money to maintain trained agents, with software, connections and the rest. I must tell you that it was not the minister or the cabinet who made this decision. The company has autonomy. You all applauded Mrs. Dutordoir when she arrived. I don't fit in behind anything, but you have to know what you want. Decisions are made, and some of them are directly related to the station in my city. We've cut his opening hours by half. I didn't intervene. At some point, you have to know what you want: autonomy or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u55	This concludes the debate. This is not a debate. Minister, you no longer have the floor, which comes back to the Member for a final reply if he wishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u56	Next week, I guarantee you I'll come to defend the Rochefort station.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u57	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u58	There's no train station in Rochefort anymore!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u59	Mr Minister, a press article published on the VRT website on 15 January last mentions language problems reported on the train leaving Belgium to Lille, France. The train in question is the one which is split at the station of Courtrai and whose first cars go to Poperinge and the last to Lille-Flandres. During the operation, the announcement is made in Dutch in such a way that French-speaking passengers (and especially those from France) do not always understand the message and do not go towards the right wagon. In the end, travellers who wanted to go to Lille station find themselves in Poperinge. I read that the SNCB spokesman explained that the language law was respected in this case. In Flanders, announcements must actually be made in Dutch. Nevertheless, he admitted that if problems were actually present, a solution should be found. Minister, could you tell me if any complaints or reports about this specific issue have been sent to SNCB? If so, what measures do SNCB intend to implement? Do you think that the advertisement should also be made in French in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u60	Mr Delannois, the SNCB informs me that the number of reactions relating to the linguistic use of accompanying staff is distributed as follows: 41 complaint files in 2015, 36 in 2016, 47 in 2017. As you know, SNCB is subject to the legislation on the use of languages, pursuant to Article 36 of the Act of 21 March 1991. For example, with regard to announcements on trains, the train attendant must respect the following principles: use of Dutch in the Dutch-speaking region; use of French in the French-speaking region; use of German and French – with priority to German – in the German-speaking region; use of both languages – with priority to French – in the French-speaking region with facilities; use of both languages – with priority to Dutch – in the Dutch-speaking region with facilities; use of both languages – with priority to the linguistic role of the train attendant in the Brussels-capital territory. However, in our complex country, in the interest of serving and informing customers as best they can, depending on the situation, the train attendant may - on his own initiative - use other languages in a unilingual region.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic822x.u61	I think I've understood almost everything in your answer. I will try to translate it for a Frenchman who would be stuck in Courtrai and who would like to go back to Lille. It seems to me that there is only one principle here that is not respected, that is the principle of common sense and that seems to me a pity. Thank you.
