ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u1	Mr Minister, since this year some police areas have not been given additional funding for ANPR. These are the zones Bilzen, Maasland, Grensleie, Vlas, Spoorkin, West Coast, Ypres, Lanaken-Maasmechelen, in my opinion mainly West Flanders and Limburg areas at the border. The contribution they receive now goes to new zones, especially Antwerp, to invest in ANPR along the border. It is good that it is possible to install an ANPR system along the entire border, but the areas that still had expansion plans for the ANPR system may not be able to achieve everything now as they can no longer count on additional funding. So there are still holes in the shield. I would like to have an answer to the following questions, Minister. On the basis of what criteria was the additional funding for ANPR allocated to police areas? For what period will the areas which now receive an additional amount for ANPR be able to count on that amount? After that period, will that budget go back to other areas or will the additional amount be evaluated and reviewed? Is there additional funding from the federal funds to roll out a full ANPR system along the borders?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u2	Mr Demon, the additional amount for ANPR is allocated to cross-border police areas that have not yet received an amount for ANPR, with the aim of covering the entire border with ANPR cameras. The police zones can count on the dot for a year. That was also clearly stated in the previous reports. The federal government invests about 35 million euros in a national ANPR network. It does so only on the motorways. The first phase, the border crossings, is already operational. For the next phase, which includes the integration of local systems into the national network, I have just awarded a new framework contract, which can also be used by the zones. You will understand that the prices under that framework contract are more advantageous than if a zone separately asked for a price. When they integrate their cameras into a national network, the costs for the zones are reduced because they no longer need their own back office. Staff were also discussed earlier in the discussion. By placing cameras in the national network, the monitoring of the images is done by the CICs. This means a reduction in staff deployment for local areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u3	I can support that, but the first question is one about the criteria. When I listed the zones, I noticed that Limburg and West Flanders fell out of the boat. Are there any criteria in this respect? Can the holes be filled by next year?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u4	As soon as there are applications, they will receive grants, albeit only for one year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u5	Those applications were there. Choices have been made and they have not been answered. One was answered and the other wasn't.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u6	These are probably areas that have already received subsidies for part of their camera network. I repeat, it is about subsidies for one year. We try to operate as many zones as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u7	But there are no clear criteria that determine the choice for this or that zone?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u8	No, the areas that have not yet applied are given priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u9	We can conclude from this that in West Flanders and Limburg much more subsidies were previously awarded?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u10	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u11	We need to look at this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u12	Minister, following the adoption of the civil protection reform, which has been a great deal of ink, negotiations are taking place between your office and the union representatives on the new staff working time rules. It is up to me that they do not take place as the unions would like and that to date no agreement has been reached. Among the problems, trade union organisations deplore the lack of reciprocity in the discussions and the failure to take account of their concerns. They also deplore the lack of an objective budget evaluation of the proposals they defend. In addition, I am reminded that the CGSP was absent from the last meeting, for lack of invitation. Therefore, Minister, these are my questions. Are you going to take an initiative to relaunch the negotiations with a view to reaching a balanced agreement? As the three trade unions wish, could a social mediator be appointed for this purpose? And finally, can you guarantee trade unions equal treatment, and that a real memorandum of understanding is signed before you go to the Council of Ministers to present it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u13	Mr Thiébaut, first of all, I would like to make it clear that under the Act of 8 April 1965 establishing the working regulations, the new working time rules for civil protection staff are subject to the conciliation procedure, not to negotiation. The union consultation on the new timetable, which is expected to apply from 1 January 2019, started on 4 December 2017. A second meeting was held on 21 December 2017. In the absence of a unanimous reasoned opinion within the Conciliation Committee on the provisions of the new Regulation within the 30-day period referred to in Article 25 of the Royal Decree of 28 September 1984 implementing the Law of 19 December 1974 on the organization of relations between public authorities and trade unions of officials under those authorities, and in accordance with Article 15quinquies of the aforementioned Law of 8 April 1965, the dispute will soon be brought to the attention of the Inspectorate of Social Laws. If the Inspectorate fails to reconcile views, the dispute will then be subject to the negotiation procedure. The draft decrees on administrative and monetary status and transitional measures were the subject of a trade union bargaining procedure which ended on 21 December 2017. Unfortunately, the trade union organisations considered the concessions, although interesting that I was willing to make, insufficient. To my regret, the negotiations will end with a protocol of non-agreement. In principle, negotiations should not resume. With regard to rumours that a union would have been excluded from the negotiations, I want to make it very clear that this is not the case. That would be stupid. What happened? At one point, negotiations ended without reaching an agreement. Then I was contacted by two presidents of the three unions who asked me for a private interview with me. I gave my consent and we discussed whether we could resume negotiations to reach an agreement. The process was quite constructive. Then, the third president contacted me complaining that he had met with the other two presidents outside of his presence. I acquiesced and told him that if he wanted a private interview, he was welcome. He refused. It was therefore not a negotiation but two meetings with two out of three presidents. If the third president asks me, even today, for private contact, that is quite possible. Negotiations were never discussed in the absence of one of the three unions. I strongly protest against the rumours that have circulated.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u14	So I hear your door is still open for the third union and I'll get the message out. In my opinion, he'll be calling you soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u15	I personally told the president of the union during the telephone call.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u16	Of course. But in any case, apart from these negotiations and bilateral meetings, you do not intend to relaunch the negotiations, if I have heard your answer beforehand.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u17	I think we tried everything. At some point, you have to close. My final proposal is on the table. The unions said it's still not enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u18	Now you have the protocol of disagreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u19	Yes. We are moving towards a protocol of non-agreement. There is also the pressure of time, not for me, but for civil protection officers. They must know where they are in the next statute, so that they can make their choice to remain in civil protection or to use the proposals we have made.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u20	So you're going to go to the Council of Ministers with the protocol of disagreement? [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u21	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 233, by Mrs Jadin is converted into a written question, as is Question No 233, by Mrs Jadin. 23387 by Mrs Schepmans. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Kir's 23395 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u22	Minister, in our previous discussion of the follow-up by the AFCN to the communication audit that it had been the subject of, you replied to me, once it was not customary, in a very laconic way, saying that the recommendations were taken into account and that you had noticed a new impetus. To avoid this, we agreed to discuss it again at the next sitting. I would therefore like to reword my questions so that you can provide an answer to the issue, since we remember that Le Soir had highlighted very interesting excerpts from this audit, even to the point that the spokespersons are aware of sometimes making incoherent comments. "I sometimes have to respond to a journalist because I find myself under pressure and I have no choice and I know that what I'm talking about doesn't stand the way. I feel awfully bad," said an employee. I stop quoting the newspaper Le Soir and repeat my questions. Twenty months after the recommendations of this audit were released, I would like to take stock with you. What exactly has been implemented? What still needs to be implemented and on what timetable? Which people now carry the communication within the Agency? What is your feeling as the appropriate minister? Do you have the overall impression that the Agency's communication is organised as one can expect in view of its important tasks vis-à-vis the Belgian population?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u23	Mr Nollet, I will answer your two questions together, and then the other two. The audit did include a series of first recommendations that I am able to communicate the following. The Agency has reviewed the place of communication in its organizational chart. Since arriving at the Agency, the Head of the Communications Service has been serving as the Permanent Secretary of the Management Committee. This directly results in close collaboration and better communication between the communications department and management. In accordance with the recommendations of the audit, the Head of the Communication Service does not come from a technical or scientific field; he is a proven expert in internal and external communication, allowing him to give wider insight to communication and complements the profiles of members of the Management Committee. He took on a leadership role as soon as he arrived. As head of department, he showed Dutch-French bilingualism. A single cell is now in charge of internal and external communication. The various profiles existing within the communication service have been repositioned by clarifying and delineating the tasks and priorities of each without affecting the versatility of the employees and the transversality of the tasks. The service has been strengthened by two new employees. These new commitments allow the Agency to focus fully on certain priorities, such as supporting the various services, setting up and carrying out communication campaigns, creating a new website, responding to parliamentary questions, external events, and responding to questions from the media and citizens. As far as parliamentary questions are concerned, he is rather a private collaborator, especially for Mr Nollet! All employees within this service are evaluated on the basis of individual and collective objectives. Operational objectives are defined and prioritized both year-round and three-yearly, in line with the Agency's mission, values, strategic plan, communications budgets and any other reporting elements. At the same time, these objectives demonstrate versatility and cross-cuttingity so that services remain operational at all times. In order to achieve these objectives and balance these various issues, targets and messages, the AFCN has created its 'information and communication' policy, a document that sets out the basic rules that, in general and across the board, are applicable and must be followed in information management and communication. This document makes Agency staff aware of all aspects of communication, including communication to the general public. As recommended, exchanges of good practice and direct contacts between the communication services of AFCN and ASN (Nuclear Safety Authority), ANVS (Netherlands Agency) and BNUB (Germany Agency) have been developed. There are opportunities to talk about AFCN at different levels: awareness campaigns, information campaigns, annual reports, etc. Thanks to the process of updating and improving the website, both visual and textual content has been improved. This new website reflects the Agency's willingness to communicate more proactively with these different stakeholders, including journalists. The site presents the Agency's various trades and activities. Regular and systematic meetings between the Director General and the Chief Communications Officer are held and are planned for a full year. As far as media training is concerned, training has already taken place in the first half of 2017. A market study was carried out for 2018. New media training should be organised in the future. A new impetus was also given to internal communication, including by improving the intranet and strengthening the staff luncheon formula. Further improvements in relation to some internal communication tools should be made in the short term. These actions aim to bring the different services closer together and to better disseminate information among all staff. These take into account the needs of intermediate management. Generally speaking, both the Director-General and the Directors of the various departments are listening and open, which has allowed staff to express themselves. In addition, the number of meetings of the Core Consultation Committee has increased threefold since its inception. The moments of exchange on the ground also exist via other platforms and meetings. On your third question, the people who now carry the communication of the Agency are the employees of the communication service mandated by the management and under the final responsibility of the Director General. As you can see, Mr. Nollet, the agency took this audit to heart and many actions have already been taken. I am confident that the Agency will continue on this path of improvement. Together with my Government Commissioner, I will ensure that the Agency functions properly and continues to fulfil its important tasks vis-à-vis the Belgian population.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u24	I thank the minister for his much more comprehensive response than last week. I see that some things have changed, in any case in the structure, in the organization chart, in the place that this service occupies as well. I also see that I have been able to contribute to employment within the Agency. It's always a good thing. I now, of course, look forward to seeing the concrete result on the quality of communication. I am well aware that things need to be gradually put in place. I will remain, as you can guess, attentive to the fact that everything that has been put in place at the level of the structures and at the level of the people also translates concretely into the output, in what the Agency will release as information and as communication at the level of the public. I have to tell you that at this point, I do not yet feel this real change, but I ask only to see. I want to be positive at the beginning of the year!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u25	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 23399 is converted into a written question. Mrs Van Hoof is not here, we will see if she has notified the committee secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u26	Minister, what are the precise and new elements that led the operator to announce on 1 February that the Doel 3 plant was closed from 15 April to 1 August? What has just been discovered and requires this extension? I know the causes behind the closure, but why is this change happening now and why at this point? Why such a late announcement when the plant has been closed since September 22nd? Has the PSAN ever given a partial or intermediate opinion on the situation? What is the status of reviews and analyses of the extent of problems? What's the status of the repairs? With this new extension, the plant will be closed for more than ten months, not to mention that further extensions may occur around July. Mr Minister, do you not think that it is time to close this cracked reactor, on the other hand?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u27	Mr President, Minister, our nuclear power stations have already had their cures. For Objective 3, after the saga of the cracks, there is now a prolonged shutdown that was not part of the planning. It is not a hibernation but a winter, spring and even a bit of summer sleep; which is remarkable. As my colleague has already said, according to the recent report, the reactor will remain stationary for three months longer than planned. This means that there will be no restart before 1 August. The closure has been a fact for several days before Christmas. So it's a tough period. So you will not be surprised that this announcement has attracted my attention. We know that the reactor is still because concrete works are needed, but this substantial extension is obviously not just happening. Hence my questions. First, what is the exact reason for the prolonged unavailability? How does the work evolve? Secondly, and this is perhaps the most important question, to what extent is the FANC involved in the work? As the cessation is renewed, a proactive follow-up of the FANC is important. Can after such a prolonged cessation of ENGIE decide to restart itself, or do you think it is formally necessary to give the FANC a green light? The debate on whether a licence is needed for such a reboot or not has also occurred in the debate on the crack reactors. Thirdly, Objective 3 is a bit of the worry child of our reactor fleet. That means something when one looks at the rest of the family. There is already a great deal of interest for this reactor from abroad because of the cracks. Then the logical question is to what extent the safety authorities of our neighbouring countries are informed about this dossier, given the questions about other developments regarding this particular reactor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u28	Electrabel has decided to carry out additional work in order to strengthen the concrete roof of the Doel 3 bunker. This work takes some time and, as a result, the Doel 3 revision schedule is reduced by a few months. The AFCN is not involved in the planning of the work. Nor does it intervene in the operator's communication as regards the time it takes to perform the necessary work. Timing questions should be addressed to the operator. The latter himself determines the method and speed required to carry out the work. The nuclear safety authority shall independently verify whether the method used and the final results meet the required safety standards and requirements. This is done continuously. The time required for this type of work depends, among other things, on the size of the works; on the drying times of the concrete, which are longer in winter, cold and wet weather conditions; and on the limited accessibility of the premises, so that the workers cannot use certain machines and have to carry out more work by hand. Meanwhile, the operator made additional studies and concluded that the roof structure should be strengthened from the outside. An operator has identified the locations where operations are required and is carrying out them step by step. This work is closely monitored by the Nuclear Safety Authority. Rebooting can only be done after explicit green light from the FANC and confirmation that the building meets the nuclear safety requirements, i.e. after complete completion of the work with an end result that meets expectations. So we are not concerned with timing. At some point the operator will say that the works are ready and then the FANC checks and will give the green light or not. It is important to stress that there is no link between this concrete degradation in an annex to Objective 3 and the fault indications in the reactor vessel. Nuclear safety is closely monitored by the FANC and if an installation does not meet the requirements, the FANC will act appropriately. Security was in no way compromised. Objective 3 had already been shut down for a planned overhaul, so the question of whether the reactor should be shut down did not arise. The FANC spoke to any interested party who asked him additional questions on this dossier, including the Dutch ANVS and the German BMUB. The dossier will also be discussed at the next bilateral consultations we have with the Netherlands, Germany and Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u29	Minister, there's still something wrong with the system. Initially, Electrabel announced a few days off. It can be understood because it takes them time to identify the extent of the problem. A few days then become a few weeks. Then, Electrabel gives a deadline: April 15th. But in the meantime, for unknown reasons, he moved everything until August. Something must have been discovered. You're saying that's not the role of the federal agency. She'll make sure everything's in order. It is true, but the fact that we do not have precise information about what has been discovered is a lack of transparency on the part of Electrabel. It is also, in itself, a problem of information on nuclear power plants. Besides, I would still like to question you directly. This will also have to be done with Minister Marghem, but these nuclear power plants, which are designed for continuous production, are closed for ten months. They will be more closed than open. When you have to discuss the future of our energy in Belgium within the government, we will have to integrate the fact that nuclear power plants are no longer safe sources of energy production at all. They have become largely intermittent. Look what's going on with Doel 3. Last year it was Tihange 1, it wasn't better. I had the opportunity to ask you a lot of questions about it at the time. But today it's Doel 3. And again! We're not sure they'll be able to restart in August.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u30	Mr. Secretary, let me start with the positive. The structural consultation with neighbouring countries on which dossiers such as this are dealt with is important. But that's about where the positive ends. After all, I find it difficult for you to say that the FANC is not involved in the planning of the work, so that you cannot give a specific reason why it was extended. You say it's winter, which makes it less obvious to work as the concrete dries slower and not all places are equally accessible to workers. Electrabel also knew a while ago that, normally, it is winter in December and January in this country. They are active here long enough to know the climate of this country. So I'm just gonna sit there and starve. I do not think it is the FANC's job to make the planning, but rather to be aware of the reason for a three-month extension of the closure, which is not a small one. I also think it is your duty, as the Minister responsible, to share this information with Parliament. I regret that your answer has little insight and/or gives that to me. Secondly, there is not only the safety aspect, but also the fact that such closures and their shift have an impact on the functioning of the market and thus on prices for our businesses and consumers. The game of unannounced shut-downs, the emergence of problems and adjusted calendars has a negative effect on prices and stability in this respect. Finally, Minister, your party is very much in favour of extending the lifespan of nuclear power plants. I am now addressing you as Deputy Prime Minister for the N-VA. Honestly, I don't understand. You referred to the many questions put by Mr Nollet. These questions have to do with the many incidents involving our nuclear power stations. Our nuclear power stations are more shut down than they work. However, until now, your party is on the barricades to extend the service life of those same power stations. About Target 3, you say there's no connection between the cracks and the concrete rot. Indeed, it is both the cracks and the concrete rot. This brings us to a ten-month closure. Everywhere, so also here in Belgium, there are 12 months. Target 3 will have stood still for ten months. After all these incidents and our many questions, you can only come to one decision, in particular to close such power stations as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Hoof's 23456 is being postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u32	Minister, after Doel 3, Tihange 1! The German authorities once again commented on the risks inherent in the operation of the Tihange 1 nuclear power plant. The experts interviewed called for no more or no less closure of the reactor. They unveiled an internal report to the Federal Nuclear Control Agency on numerous incidents concerning reactor 1. Precursor incidents appear to be at the centre of an AFCN report to which German journalists have had access. These are isolated incidents that could to some extent have caused significant damage to the reactor. The document shows that eight of these incidents were recorded between 2013 and 2015 in Tihange 1, more than half of those that occurred during this period in Belgium. Minister, were you aware of this synthesis report? Can you give us an official copy? What exactly does he say? The former nuclear safety officer at the German Ministry of the Environment, Dieter Majer, believes that this situation may have consequences: "This information should have triggered alarms, both within the company managing the reactor and with the competent Belgian authorities or those of neighbouring countries, starting with Germany". My central question is simple. Why doesn't such a situation trigger this necessary alarm? Should we wait for a disaster? Why has AFCN merely indicated that these fears were fuelled by "an anti-nuclear climate in Germany"? Why such a nonchalance?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u33	Mr President, Mr Nollet, we cannot talk about a synthesis report. AFCN responded to the questions posed by the German television channel WDR on several aspects of the Belgian nuclear landscape, including the preliminary analysis work on Belgian reactors, notably Tihange 1. As a result, in response to the questions to the WDR, the AFCN provided a list of these various analyses, as well as a context and explanation. It has been communicated in a manner that respects the Agency's values, i.e. in a transparent, neutral and objective manner. For the sake of credibility, the AFCN wanted to make these actions visible and understandable to all. Since there's no report, I can't give it to you. AFCN found that, despite this context and its explanations, the WDR and then several other German media, took the decision to ignore the facts and spread their views on the nuclear and security of Tihange 1. However, the Agency has clearly and repeatedly pointed out that such conclusions cannot be drawn since precursor analyses are probability studies. Precursor events include all events with a probability (conditional core damage probability) greater than 1/1 million. This means that it is the potential risks of reactor core damage that are analyzed and that these have temporarily increased during this event to become greater than 1.501/year. Precursor analysis shall be conducted by the operator where the operator considers it useful in the context of its incident analysis. This practice has existed since 2013 in Belgium. These analyses are used to detect certain risk conditions due to specific events. As stated several times in the WDR and then in other media, these analyses do not allow direct conclusions to be drawn as to the level of safety of the reactor. A comparison of the safety of nuclear reactors is not the objective of precursor analyses. This is also the reason why this does not trigger an alarm. In addition, this hypothetical damage in precursor analyses would not result in release to the atmosphere. There are several protective measures to ensure fuel containment. In summary, precursor events are events for which the probability of heart fusion remains very low while knowing that the existence of different containment measures would prevent this fusion from causing relaxation in the atmosphere. However, under the supervision of the Safety Authority, the operator analyses these studies and events with the utmost rigour. In case of potential risk, it shall take all necessary measures. So there is no question of being nonchalant.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u34	Mr. Minister, I had no doubt that the Agency was going to propose that you deny the fact that it was "nonchalant". But admit that in the light of the analysis carried out in Germany, not only by the media (because the Agency rejects, as often, the responsibility on the media) but also by the former German nuclear safety officer, there is still room for questioning and asking AFCN to stop constantly minimizing the risk. Because the point that I took up but which you did not mention in your answer, which was to say that it was because of an "anti-nuclear climate" in Germany... No! It's a stronger security climate in Germany, yes, but not "antinuclear". I cannot understand that our Agency, as an official authority, allows itself to use this kind of statement in relation to what is being said in Germany, not only by the press itself, but also by the former officials responsible for the safety of nuclear power plants who know each other about it – I am sorry to have to remind the Agency! – as well as our own officials of the latter. You are talking about "propaganda" in what the Agency proposes to tell you here in Parliament. I'm just talking about information and lighting that can be interesting. And in this sense, I understand that it is not an analysis that has been made, but it is nevertheless a written response that has been formulated to the German media. I would like to ask you for a copy, Minister, to feed my own analysis, my own judgment on these elements, to see if there has been an exaggeration in the Agency's use of the answer. I am aware that this is not a synthesis analysis, but could we have a copy of the Agency's written response to these media? This is a small supplementary question, since you say it is not an "analysis" but an "response", could we consult this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u35	Mr Nollet, these are answers to a journalist's questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u36	This is about the calculations. In the Agency's response to journalists, we are talking about a millionth calculation. I wish I could get to know about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u37	I'll check on the status...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u38	I assume that if elements are provided to journalists, they can also be passed on to parliamentarians. Things haven't been reversed yet, I guess. I'll let you look at it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u39	I'll check on the status of these documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u40	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u41	Mrs. Temmerman is sick. Mrs Dierick is absent and has not been apologized. However, Mr Calvo, you are present and may therefore ask your share of the questions put together.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u42	Mr President, Minister, my question is in line with the previous question. After all, our nuclear sector guarantees coverage in the international press. The reports on nuclear emergency planning follow a Dutch investigation by the Dutch Research Council for Security (OVV). The Council states that Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany should better prepare for a nuclear accident with cross-border consequences. A nuclear accident with cross-border consequences is, in concrete terms, every nuclear accident that is possible on our territory because the perimeter within which we have to act is usually large, taking into account also the location of core activities which are often located near other countries. The OVV considers that not all nuclear crisis plans sufficiently respect the cross-border nature of a nuclear accident. What's on paper has only been practiced to a limited extent. In this context, cooperation between the Doel and Tihange plants, in Emsland and in Borssele was examined. The matter must be taken seriously. I know there's been an update on the nuclear emergency plans. This update has also been the subject of a parliamentary process, in which you have shown the openness of discussing it with us first, before putting it into a definitive fold. However, you and we cannot put the report of the OVV next to us. The report was not only written by the OVV. It has also been co-written by the Belgian Crisis Centre and the FANC. We also read in the press that the FANC agrees with the findings of the report in all transparency. I quote the spokesperson: 'We agree with the findings'. The findings are also part of the structural consultation between the FANC and its Dutch counterpart, the ANVS. I therefore have a few questions, Minister. What is your response to this report? What steps are being taken in the short term, in addition to initiating consultations on this issue? What will be the attitude and approach of the FANC before the meeting on 12 February? Can you provide insight into the other issues that are being discussed at that time? Finally, are you also planning political consultations to quickly overcome the identified pain points? I believe that your shoulders on this issue can only speed things up. You're a political heavyweight. I would like to invite you to include this in this dossier, because such international cooperation is not being set up on its own, I believe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u43	Mr Calvo, the research carried out by the Dutch Safety Research Council focused primarily on cooperation between the Netherlands and its neighbouring countries, Belgium and Germany, on cross-border cooperation between the safety authorities both on the prevention of nuclear emergencies and on nuclear emergency planning in crisis management. The recommendations from the research were addressed to my competent Dutch colleague, the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Water State, whom I met a few weeks ago. In addition to positive points, the report also mentions points of which the Dutch Research Council for Security considers that cooperation can be improved. From the Council's first contact, I have given full cooperation and transparency to the investigation. The Crisis Centre has coordinated and facilitated contacts between the Board and the various actors involved at Belgian level, both federal and local. The Federal Nuclear Control Agency also actively supported this research. On the Belgian side, the research and its results are seen as an opportunity to further optimise cross-border cooperation, which has been known for years and which is carried out on a very constructive basis. At political level, too, this willingness to cooperate was there and very recently, on 19 December last, I discussed this with my Dutch colleague, responsible for Infrastructure and Water State. As far as the points of improvement raised by the report are concerned, it seems logical to me that they should be considered in the first instance together with the Dutch colleagues and test them against what exists, more specifically on the basis of the existing and ongoing bilateral action plan. Cooperation is developing on the basis of the principle of co-operation between homologs who play a similar role within the respective organisations on prevention, emergency planning in crisis management, in particular in the following areas: alerting at national and local level, technical and radiological analysis and advice, decision-making, communication to the public and implementation on the ground. Everyone knows their counterpart on the other side of the border and develops the necessary contacts and procedures with them in a global approach coordinated by the Crisis Centre along the Belgian side. The new Belgian nuclear emergency plan explicitly describes cross-border cooperation with homologs in neighbouring countries for the areas listed and for the actors involved. It is therefore already in line with the recommendations of the Research Council. The bilateral action plan, which is being implemented, also implements those principles in decision-making. The report of the Research Council will therefore not have to lead to an adaptation to the emergency plan, but will rather have an impact on the procedures being developed. The bilateral exercise in 2018 for the Borssele nuclear power plant will provide an opportunity for all actors at all levels on the two sides of the border to test the procedures of the aforementioned areas of cooperation in a coherent approach, taking into account the decisions of the new nuclear emergency plan. It is clear that similar partnerships are being established with the other neighbouring countries, France, Germany and Luxembourg, in accordance with the same principles as set out in the nuclear emergency plan. I have also recently spoken about this with my French colleague for the Interior, Mr Collomb. Moreover, these bilateral partnerships are complementary to international directives or conventions at the level of the European Commission and the International Atomic Energy Agency on alerting and information exchange, for which the Crisis Centre exercises the role of 24/7 international contact point. Those bilateral partnerships are further facilitated and supported through other mechanisms, such as the euregions, in particular the Meuse-Rhine euregion, and the grandes régions, the Benelux and international working groups such as HERCA-WENRA, consisting of the nuclear supervisors of the European countries. Within the Benelux partnership, the efforts made to address the nuclear risk within the development of an all-hazard approach, for which various actions are carried out: regular communication tests between the three countries, work visits between the permanents, strategic meetings between the directors-general of the crisis centres, development of crisis communication arrangements and the function of correspondent to ensure the efficiency of communication between the affected country and the neighbouring country. Notwithstanding all these initiatives to harmonise emergency plan schemes, further initiatives at European level to organise and steer national and cross-border emergency plan schemes remain clearly appropriate and also the most efficient way to achieve harmonisation. At the same time, as these initiatives infringe the sovereignty of Member States, there should be support for this in all Member States. In the field of communication, a national communication strategy for nuclear incidents has been developed by the Crisis Centre on the basis of the Nuclear Emergency Plan. The aim of this strategy is to achieve a coherent communication with all partners, local, provincial, national, emergency services and so on. This communication strategy also takes into account the international aspect of the incident. Consequently, there will also be consultations with neighbouring countries on the communication strategy to be followed during a nuclear incident. In order to ensure cross-border coherence of communication, the various aspects of crisis communication are developed in advance in bilateral action plans. The communication strategy on nuclear incidents, developed by the Crisis Centre, already takes into account the principles of comprehensibility and transparency of the communication message. In the context of the cross-border nature of a nuclear incident, both during emergency planning and during crisis management there is consultation with the homologs from neighbouring countries in order to achieve understandable and transparent communication. Following the new nuclear emergency plan, a large-scale public campaign will be organised. This campaign will address the nuclear risk, the actions the government takes in this matter and what citizens themselves can do, such as knowing the right reflex actions. As in the case of crisis communication, there is also risk communication consultation between the homologs of the different neighbouring countries. The FANC has also already established partnerships with the ANVS on information transfers and communication flows, a fact which confirms the report of the Research Council. Both organisations therefore consult on a regular basis. A further meeting is scheduled for 12 February. This meeting has been established for some time now and is not specifically focused on this report. The report still needs to be thoroughly analysed, which does not mean that it can already be discussed in this consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You announce a bilateral exercise in Borssele in 2018. Do you have any more information about that? Do you also know of a similar exercise for Purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u45	No similar exercise is planned for Target yet, but that is the intention. I'll let you know the timing for Borssele.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u46	The reason for our interaction is a Dutch study. In your answer, much attention was paid to the interaction with the Dutch authority. You have also referred to political consultations with your French and German colleagues. I hope that this is equally intensive with every neighbouring country and that there is no asymmetry, depending on the neighbouring country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u47	With the French, this has been around for a long time. With the Dutch and the Germans we recently set this up, because of the commotion that had arisen there. This has existed with the French for ten or fifteen years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u48	Then I have two points of reply. Firstly, it is clear that the active participation of the FANC and the Crisis Centre is a good example of how authorities should work together, including across borders. I hope that the implementation of the recommendations will also be an example. You will understand that our group will come back to this in order to encourage you to do so in good time and in good time. It is hoped that a nuclear accident will never happen, but if it ever happens, the timing is always unpredictable and unhappy. Secondly, a more global reflection. Such cases, research but also the operationalisation of such research, encourage me in the idea that a more fundamental exercise on cross-border cooperation around everything that is nuclear is at issue. This is also noted in today's question. It is often about cross-border issues. Cooperation must take place. The scale-up of many of these activities may well be the issue in the long term. Scaling and strengthening international cooperation is not something that exists in one-two-three. That's why I think it's time to start that reflection. We will not immediately come to a European super-regulatory body, but much more active cooperation than today's confederal model is the future on which we must work together.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u49	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 23492 and Mrs Ben Hamou's 23518 are converted into written questions. The same applies to Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u50	Minister, in November 2017, I took part in a mission from the Interparliamentary Union to South Korea. I've seen some very interesting things there, including the Incheon Free Economic Zone. There I met a smart-city concept that was quite different from the smart-city developments I know in my own country and in Europe. As in other cities, sensors are of course placed on infrastructure, intersections, streets and buildings, but they are collected to monitor changes, such as temperature, air quality, sewage flows, traffic flows and unexpected noises in order to be able to respond quickly to possible problems. Those sensors are also equipped to quickly detect fire hazard and other safety hazards. In the Netherlands, the Rotterdam-Rijnmond Safety Region is working on an information-driven firefighter, where firefighters have the right data for their image and decision-making at every turn. They have developed a new system: Mobile Operational Information. This means that firefighters have direct access to all relevant data on the building, the risks, the people present, the extinguishing water supply and other important details in each incident. In Fireforum Magazine number 59, Agoria pointed out some good examples from home and abroad to show how fire safety can be improved in a smart city. I have the following questions, Minister. Which cities in Belgium have already carried out pioneering work on smart cities, specifically on fire safety? In what way have they put good examples of fire safety into practice in smart cities? How are they evaluated? Is there a consultation in Belgium in which the security services are considering developing proposals to improve fire safety in our cities and municipalities through new IT systems and smart-city applications? Can they count on financial, logistical or other support from the government? If so, which cities or which projects were already supported? Finally, what vision do you yourself have to use new technologies and smart cities to improve fire safety?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u51	Mr Vermeulen, a distinction needs to be made between the use of social media, new technologies, databases and sensors for fire fighting and assistance in general, on the one hand, and fire prevention, on the other. As far as fire-fighting is concerned, there are areas of assistance. For example, social media is used in the Antwerp area as a result of incidents, such as Facebook, Twitter, to get a better picture of an incident, e.g. through posted videos or complaints about odour nuisance. This will improve the implementation of the aid. There are relief zones, such as the Kempen zone, where the intervention plans of a building or the plans of a sewage system can be forwarded to the intervention teams. The use of drones and bodycams is also investigated by some zones in order to better inform and steer the intervention teams on the ground. As far as fire prevention is concerned, there are already several zones, Fluvia and Limburg-Noord, which try to identify which homes are equipped with smoke detectors or not, so that they can then be more targeted. A comprehensive overview of all possible existing, ongoing or planned local initiatives is not yet available. Whether these projects fit within the concept of smart cities I leave in the middle for the time being. Many of these projects are local initiatives that have started small and are still growing. These initiatives are increasingly convinced of the importance of using the available data, also in order to make the best use of available resources. The number of consultation sessions, workshops, info sessions, etc. on the subject is increasing. On 6 February last, Agoria organized another member event with the theme Fire safety in smart cities and buildings. However, this consultation often fits into other consultation moments or is specifically linked to certain technologies, such as the use of cameras, and does not systematically happen within the framework of smart cities. In the context of fire prevention, no projects have yet been supported by the Home Office that fit in with smart cities. In this respect, the principle of subsidiarity must be applied. At this stage, just after a major reform of the fire department, it is up to each zone to determine how strong and how quickly it wants to implement new technologies in its operations. Some zones such as Antwerp play a pioneering role in this. Since the smart-city concept, as the name itself says, is an integral concept that goes beyond a single service, for example the fire department, I would like to support, over time, those initiatives that, firstly, have proven their worth and, secondly, have a multidisciplinary added value. There is no point in developing something that sounds nice but which the fire department states is not applicable in its working environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u52	Indeed, Minister, it is true that not every technological application is a smart city application. The social media, of course, have their value. They ensure, among other things, that digital plans are readily available to those who have to move out. That's interesting. In a smart city, it is important to have an integrated network where there is strength. Being a mere pioneer and winning yet another prize with a nice idea to see afterwards that it cost too much money without offering a great added value is not the intention. Smart city applications cannot of course be applied in every area in the country. A certain scale is required anyway. One option that could be interesting for the future, for example, is to ensure that traffic flows are better organised in order to give priority to priority vehicles through GPS localisation. Public transport companies can also be connected to this network so that a priority vehicle can quickly arrive on the ground. One does not have to turn on all red lights; it can also be done in a different way. There's another interesting possibility. The classic alarm stations in large buildings could also be connected so that better things can be done there. I see there's still some pioneering work to be done. I suggest we look at the best practices from abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u53	Mr Vice Prime Minister, it's been messing with the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control for some time now. We were able to see that in the communication audit, which was just discussed in connection with my colleague's question. That audit highlighted a lot of instability and conflicts at the head of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. In the meantime, it seems that instability has only increased. We read in the press reports about the social unrest at the agency. The trade unions complain that the management is doing too little to create a future perspective for the 158 employees of the FANC. After all, the core exit would seriously reduce the resources for the FANC. They are demanding a strategic plan for the future, so that the staff know what is going on. I myself note that, even after a nuclear exit, there are still a lot of nuclear activities, even if only phase-out and decommissioning. In any case, I believe that the concerns are understandable. In addition, a clear strategic future plan, which is called for, is important to be able to work proactively on the future of the FANC. Mr Bens retires at the end of April. On the one hand, we read in the press that this does not directly promote conversations between management and staff. On the other hand, a new top man could be an opportunity to streamline or steer a new direction. Mr Vice-Prime Minister, to what extent are you aware of the conflict as a monitoring minister? Did you yourself have a conversation with a representative of the staff in response to the reports in the media? I do not think it is right for such reports to appear about an important agency such as the FANC. In my view, this also affects credibility in difficult and difficult cases. What mission have you set for the Executive Board of the FANC, for example through the Government Commissioner on the Management Board? Do you think that a global future plan is desirable? How do you plan the change of the FANC after the decision on nuclear exit? How is the Director-General's succession organised? What initiatives do you take to continue and improve the FANC's day-to-day management?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u54	Mr Calvo, a few months ago, not at all following the reports in the newspapers, we received a representation of the staff of the FANC in the cabinet. We then also invited the management of the FANC, which confirmed to us that it was developing an action plan on welfare. As requested, that action plan was handed over to the Social Inspectorate in September 2017. The comments were taken into account and the action plan is currently being finalised. The final action plan will be presented at the beginning of March. The FANC is a parastatal of type C, which thanks to that statute can develop its own personnel policy. As a result of the discussions, my cabinet contacted the Vandeput cabinet and we provided the FANC with a contact person in the FOD BOSA, who can support the agency in its personnel policy, including in terms of function management and evaluation systems, based on the experience gained at the FOD BOSA. Of course, the management of the FANC itself has regular meetings both with the representation of the staff through the regular channels and platforms for social consultation, and with the entire staff through the internal communication channels and platforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u55	Regarding the future of the FANC, the Agency is guided by its 2014-2022 strategic plan, which specifically addresses the changes in the nuclear landscape in Belgium and objective 15 to ensure the necessary financial, material and human resources to ensure the FANC's mission. For example, in the recent modification of the transport regulation, the charging and fee system for the transport of radioactive substances has been constructed in such a way as to cover the full cost to the FANC. The government agreement provides that no donation will be made to the FANC during this term of office. I think it would be useful to consider the future financing of the FANC in the Management Board, particularly in the Strategic Committee. In that discussion all options can be put on the table. I will formally instruct my Government Commissioner to refer that matter to the Council. I understand that the final contract negotiations between the Chairman of the Governing Board and the arrested candidate have been concluded and that the item is on the agenda at the meeting of the Governing Board on 9 February. If the Governing Council agrees to this result on Friday, I can propose this dossier to the Council of Ministers. From 1 April, the new candidate is expected to coincide with Jan Bens for one month and then take over permanently from 1 May. Together with the new Director-General, we will see how we can further optimise the organisation of the FANC.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u56	Mr Minister, I would like to begin with the last thing you said. I hope that there will be clarity on Friday about the new Director-General, because I think that is an important building block. I also look forward to meeting the new Director-General, because I think it is important that there is an immediate interaction with Parliament. That could give us all the opportunity to make suggestions about the future of the agency, in addition to the parliamentary questions that we can of course ask about it. I hear in your reply that you will instruct the Government Commissioner to place the issue of funding on the agenda. That is important and certainly not premature, quite the contrary. There are pros and cons to every thought trail, but the exercise needs to be thoroughly made. I think it is also an important political debate, not only for the agency and its bodies, but also for you as a guardian minister and for Parliament. I will ask you not only about the client as government commissioner but also what your position will be in that discussion at the next sitting. There is not only the question of funding, but also the global future exercise for the FANC. What does it mean to be an agency in a post-nuclear world? That's an important question. All this is also related to similar exercises on the study centre and the future of nuclear sites. I think that exercise should be done. I would like to encourage you to study, rather than with your government, the life span of these plants, the future scenarios, including for the agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u57	Then we would normally come to Mr Calvo's next question, but the Minister must leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u58	The Minister always excels in availability to Parliament, so I fully understand that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u59	I would like to reply to Mr Dallemagne, because my answer will be very brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u60	Mr. Minister of the Interior, thank you for taking the time to answer my question. We all remember the overwhelming report of the Tahrir Institute on the treatment of certain Sudanese nationals. I remember our meeting on Christmas Eve. You said the clarity had to be made in the next few days. You wanted a counter-expertise and mandated the CGRA to carry it out. Subsequently, the Prime Minister extended the deadline until the end of January. It's February 7. I would therefore like to know today whether you can be believed when you say that you can quickly have a report on the situation of nationals there. Has the CGRA visited the site? Have you sent any staff from your administration? Did Belgian diplomats go there to find out exactly what the situation was.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u61	Mr Dallemagne, I am waiting for the report for this week. But I don't have it yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u62	I guess you still have to believe me! This is not the first time you've postponed! You mentioned Christmas...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u63	Mr Dallemagne, I never mentioned Christmas. The mandate was given on 22 or 23 December.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u64	You said textually: "We'll let him eat the Christmas turkey, then he'll leave quickly." You said that this mission would be carried out quickly. I'm sorry. In the meantime, the Court of Cassation has made it very clear that "Belgium has not complied with the European Convention on Human Rights and its Article 3 has been imprudent in sending these nationals." It is 7 February and the Belgian Government still does not have the answer to our question. He himself wanted this counter-expertise. I see the deadlines. I regret that you are now announcing that this report will be submitted on the eve of the February parliamentary leave. We will not be able to debate it immediately. I very much regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u65	Mr President, Minister, I would like to come back to just now. In fact, you were correct, the debate didn't start until just before Christmas. However, I also consider Mr Dallemagne's comment to be very relevant. During the Christmas holidays, there was the whole debate. At that time, we specifically asked to be able to talk about this in Parliament. Now it may well fall after tomorrow's plenary session. We must be able to agree in this committee that the majority will not delay this debate and that it will be possible to enter into dialogue very quickly with the Commissioner-General and the relevant ministers, even if that means that it is during the crocus holiday.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u66	Mr Calvo, we have put the question to the Commissioner-General and we are waiting for it to be with the government, because it has been ordered by the government. We will ask that we get it as soon as possible. The Commissioner-General has said that he will present the report. We will see how that happens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u67	You must be the pro-active chairman of the committee rather than the N-VA Member of Parliament. I say that with a great deal of sympathy. You should also ask that the Commissioner-General deliver that report simultaneously to Parliament and to the government. We do not want to repeat Christmas holidays when we tried to bring you together and that was refused by the majority because at that time this was an annoying matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic818x.u68	Mr Calvo, you know that I am both proactive and N-VA.
