ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u1	Colleagues, welcome. Mr Terwingen, you have a combined question with Mrs Lahaye-Battheu. She's not here yet. We will begin with your other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u2	Mr Minister, I have two questions about femininity, in law and in justice. Mrs. Van Cauter asks if it's bullying behavior. The last thing I want to do in this hashtag is bullying. Today we are in the hall of Marie Popelin, one of the first female graduate doctors in law in our country. Since then, there has been an entire evolution in the profession of lawyer. To my great joy I was able to see myself, in the period that I was still active in the legal profession, that more and more women lawyers came to the bar and started to overwhelm male lawyers with fantastic pleas. Minister, I would have liked a little more insight into this. I think the feminization of the desk will also raise some interest in you. What is your view on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u3	Gentlemen Goffin and Terwingen, I'd like to get you the figures I received from the OVB and avocats.be, regarding the number of female lawyers per desk. The figures of avocats.be make the distinction between lawyers and tableau lawyers. The figures of OVB are limited to the representation per desk of the number of female and male lawyers, of more and less than 30 years. From the clubs of the OVB I conclude that there is a large overall increase in the number of women within the legal profession from 2012 to 2017. In 2012 there were 3 747 female lawyers and in 2017 their number increased to 4 604. Last year there were 23 % more women active in the Flemish desks than 5 years earlier. A striking observation is that the number of women lawyers is higher than the number of male lawyers, at least in the age group under 30, with 62% women as against 38% men. Only in the age group above 30 years of age are the most important...... the number of male lawyers is still higher than the number of female lawyers. This is a determination that applies to all Flemish desks. The figures of avocats.be show the same trends. There are also more women than male lawyers in the French and German language counters in the age category up to 39 years. There are even twice as many female lawyers under the age of 20. In the 40-year-old age group, the number of male French-speaking lawyers is still significantly higher than the number of female French-speaking lawyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for the figures. I will be pleased to receive them in a moment so that we can study them further.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u5	Mr Minister, my question concerns the feminisation of justice. On the basis of the figures we received in 2010, we had already found that there are certainly significantly fewer women in the higher courts. Perhaps I should have asked this question in writing, but I am glad that you would like to put it orally. If I could get the figures on this, that would be very interesting, also for other purposes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u6	Mr Terwingen, as you point out in your question, justice has a large share of women in the magistracy. That was already the case in 2010 and is no different today, according to the figures below. Among the judges in the court of first instance, in the case of Antwerp, this ratio is 43 % men and 57 % women, in the case of Limburg 39 % men and 61 % women, in the case of Brussels 36 % men and 64 % women, in the case of Leuven 29 % men and 71 % women, in the case of Walloon Brabant 24 % men and 76 % women, in the case of East Flanders 46 % men and 54 % women, in the case of West Flanders 49 % men and 51 % women, in the case of Eupen 40 % men and 60 % women, in the case of Liège 32 % men and 68 % women, in the case of Luxembourg 45 % men and 55 % women, in the case of Namur 38 % men and 62 % women, in the case of Hainaut 35 % men and 65 % women. Of the peace judges, 63 percent are men and 37 percent are women. The judges in the police court have 61 percent male and 39 percent female. At the public prosecutor's office, 42 per cent are male and 58 per cent are women. At the level of magistrates in labour auditorates, 38 per cent are male and 62 per cent female. In the courts of appeal, 49 % of men and 51 % of women, 64 % of men and 36 % of women in the labour courts, 70 % of men and 30 % of women in the Court of Cassation. In the public prosecutor's office, 60 percent are men and 40 percent are women, in the court of Appeal, 92 percent are men and 8 percent are women, in the federal court, 48 percent are men and 52 percent are women.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u7	Mr Minister, I will calculate the global percentages myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u8	You can't do that on the basis of these figures, but you won't be surprised. You need the absolute figures for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u9	That's right. I mean the average of the percentages.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u10	Mr President, Minister, just the fact that Mrs Lahaye-Battheu is putting a question to my question proves that this is a good question. That is, by definition, an argument of authority for its quality. My question has to do with the creation of family courts. Minister, you have always advocated more mediation in family courts, and you have realised this. Three years after its creation, I'm curious about the figures. How many family law cases were brought before a family court? In how many of these cases was mediation used? How many cases were referred to the chambers for amicable settlement? How many cases has this referral led to a solution? I hope you have some figures that will help me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u11	Mr President, Minister, Mr Terwingen has already outlined very well what this is all about. I agree with his statement. In addition, I would like to point out that there is sometimes confusion about the difference between conciliation and settlement. Mediation is to resolve conflicts with the assistance of a mediator, who is or is not a lawyer. Settlement is solving files under the direction of a judge. The solution comes from the parties themselves. A while ago, the chambers of friendly settlement were installed following the establishment of the family court. I would like to get an update on this today. Do you have an insight into the impact of the rooms of friendly settlement on the workload of the family court? How many of the pending cases are resolved in these chambers? Can you give us a year's review of this? In the context of promoting alternative dispute resolution, are you thinking of extending the system of chambers of amicable settlement to other courts? Since 2005, the Code of Justice has provided the opportunity for family mediation. Do you have a view of the number of people using this possibility? What initiatives are underway to encourage mediation and settlement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u12	Mr President, as regards the number of cases opened before the family courts since 2014, I would like to refer you to the annual publication of the family court 2015-2016 that is accessible through the website of the courts and courts. After an initial analysis of these publications, I can give you the following figures of the registrations concerning family law on the general role: 20 513 in the transition year 2014, 30 553 in 2015 and 42 145 in 2016. However, I would like to point out that there is a separate publication for family matters for 2016 only. I also have to say that the way in which family affairs are registered is not uniform at the moment. It ensures that certain courts have higher figures, whereas in practice this is not the case. This is due solely to the differences in the method of registration and applies both for 2015 and 2016. As regards the question of figures on the number of conciliations in the chambers of friendly settlement, I have requested information from both the Standing Statistical Office of courts and courts and the Federal Conciliation Committee. As far as the courts of first instance, civil registry and the family courts are concerned, I learned from the Permanent Statistical Office of courts and courts that they do not have data on the use of mediation in the chambers of amicable settlement. The statistical project on this subject is still being developed. I also received an answer from the Federal Conciliation Committee that they do not have official figures. They point out that it is not obvious to obtain accurate figures because many mediations are voluntary, extrajudicial and often no approval is requested, so that they are difficult to trace. However, sample data can be found in the 2016 mediation barometer. From the consultations, I can only prevent them from finding from sampling that in 2015 3 210 cases were used for family mediation. It is well known that family courts do not work in a uniform manner in practice. In particular, the functioning of the chambers of amicable settlement within the family court may differ between the different jurisdictions. Evaluation of the application of the law of 30 June 2013 on the introduction of a family and youth court is planned for 2020. The first results will be published in autumn 2018. In particular, it examines the operation and workload of the family courts and the functioning of the friendly settlement chambers set up. With regard to the amicable settlement section, an investigation is under way, organised by Ghent University, which evaluates the system in practice of the family court settlements in the framework of the FITTIF project, Family In Transition, Transition In Families, with a view to improving legislation and the practice of amicable settlement. Although I am in favour of any route of friendly solution, I would like to await this evaluation before deciding on the need to extend the court's system of amicable settlement to other courts and courts. With regard to the initiatives on conciliation, I would like to refer you to the draft law on various provisions on civil law and amending the Code of Justice with a view to promoting alternative forms of dispute resolution. I explained these changes to the Code yesterday when the draft law was introduced in this committee. I propose that the debate be conducted in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u13	Minister, I was afraid it would not be easy to obtain figures from the conciliation, although these would be interesting. However, it is a good thing that there appears to be a roll-out to place the mediation and its results, so that a full evaluation of family courts can be carried out by 2020. I consider the possibility of mediation and conciliation chambers to be an added value for the conversion to the family courts of cases that may even have come before the peace court in the past. Measuring is knowing and that can lead us further. My group is convinced that conciliation is the right way forward and that conflict procedures should be avoided as far as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u14	Minister, the intention of the Chambers of Friendly Settlement has always been to give the parties the opportunity, at any time during the proceedings, to reach a magistrate in the near future if they have a near agreement, to try to reach a full agreement. All this also in connection with the cessation of family affairs in the court of peace. The fear was that if everything went to first instance, it would all take much longer. The friendly settlement rooms would like to give an answer to that. I regret that there are no figures available. However, it cannot be so difficult for the chambers to give up the number of files they deal with annually and whether or not they are successfully completed. I note that an initial evaluation will be possible by the end of 2018 at the earliest. I believe that we will consider in-house the formulation of proposals to further promote the amicable settlement or mediation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u15	Mr Minister, on 1 December 2016, the 2014 law on a national register of interpreters, experts and translators came into force. It was chosen to work in the initial phase with a provisional register. In this way, progress could be made with legislation that had remained a little behind. That's how you rushed it. It seems, however, that there would be a number of questions concerning the validity of the oath which the legal interpreters and translators have to take. It is said that the provisional register has no legal value. Apparently, the Procurator of the King of Antwerp instructs in a letter that the oath must be taken separately for each performance, as in the procedure for the appointment of a translator-interpreter or expert. Moreover, according to the letter of conversion, both at the beginning of the contract and at the end of the contract, the person entitled to take the oath must know that it is a sworn translator's interpreter and at the end of the contract, in accordance with the law. Unrested translators want to know how they are doing right now. Minister, what progress has been made with the various decisions to implement the 2014 law? What measures will you take to prevent legal uncertainty in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u16	Mrs Becq, the creation of the national register is intended to provide a high-quality justice system. The state of play of implementing acts is as follows: The Royal Decree imposing the conditions for legal training was submitted to the Council of State for its opinion in December 2017. The Council communicated a final opinion on 26 January 2018. The Royal Decree was adapted to the comments of the Council of State and will be published shortly. The royal decisions on the operation of the Acceptance Committee and the contributions to be paid in the costs were first delivered to the Treasury Inspectorate in June 2017. In response to her question, the decisions were merged and thoroughly adapted. There is still no definitive opinion. As soon as the opinion of the inspection has been received, the opinion of the Council of State shall be sought. The Royal Decree on Continuing Education is currently in preparation. All relevant experts and translators-interpreters can already register in the register, which is currently being developed by the FPS Justice Department. There are 1 823 experts and 1 545 translators who have done so by now. On average 45 experts and 35 translators are added every month. Pending the final register, an expert may be appointed from both the temporary register and the local lists. In the long term, the national register will become the only reference. I am of course aware of the problem of the taking of oaths by the interpreters, which you have outlined. In doing so, the oath of translators, interpreters and translators who are not registered in the national register requires them to take an oath by contract. The oath formula was drawn up by analogy with the formula for the experts in the past tense. That goes for the translators, who make the oath formula at the bottom of their translation. There is a problem for the interpreters, because they usually took the oath before they took up their assignment. The courts weren't used to that. In order to avoid irregularities, the Attorney General has recommended that the oath be taken twice. My services have prepared a legislative amendment to deal with the problem, so that the interpreters take the oath before they take up their duties. The translators do so at the end of the assignment, in which the oath formulas were aligned. I hope that this limited amendment can be incorporated into the draft law on the reduction of workload, which has already been tabled and will soon be discussed in the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u17	I thank you, Minister, for your short-term search for a solution to the problem of swearing in. From your reply, I believe I understand that those who are not included in the national register will have to take the oath twice. From this I conclude that anyone who is entered in the provisional register does not have to do so and is treated as if his or her entry in the register is already final. There was some confusion about this too, as I have at least deduced from the letter. In any case, there will be a legislative amendment to clarify this, possibly after amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u18	Mr President, Minister, the Mercury project has been in existence since 14 April 2011. At least on that date the law establishing that project was adopted. It is a crossroads bank with the aim of integrating the management of driving licences into which all cancellations of the right to drive will be included. It is a project with several internal and external partners, including the FPS Mobility and the integrated police. From answers to previous questions, I understand that the necessary steps would be taken by the Justice Department to unlock the MACH database via Fedict by the end of 2016. The information available to the Justice Department would soon, as you said at the time, be available in real time for the police to carry out traffic checks. On the part of the integrated police there would be work in three phases. A first phase is the creation of the national database of temporary driving bans. A second phase is the connection to the already available Justice web service. In a third phase, the additional web service is activated with the history of driving licences and the special conditions. For the second and third stages, you replied to previous parliamentary questions that this would be foreseen by early 2018. The transmission of the extracts of the judgments is done, as I understand from previous questions, electronically via flat files. The MACH computer program automatically creates the extracts and then sends them to the criminal record, to the parquet and to the recipient of the non-fiscal recovery. Minister, is the information available in real time to the police in the exercise of control services? If not, when do you expect that? In November, you announced that it would be for "soon." Is that information used in all traffic checks? Why is that, or why not? Have Phases 2 and 3 of the implementation started with the integrated police? If not, when is that expected? From when can a general commissioning on all domains of the Mercury project be expected? Not insignificant, how much time will a verdict be included in today's MACH computer program to make it available for transmission? Do all the clerks of the police courts use that digital transfer? I would like to add a fifth question, which I had not included in my written preparation, but perhaps you can answer it from the outset, or else I will come back to it later. Is the Mercurius database also consultable by the prosecutors for the preparation of their criminal proceedings? If someone is caught at excessive speed, will it be checked whether, for example, the person concerned has a driving licence?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u19	As part of the Mercurius project, the links were established between the various databases of mobility, police and justice, which already exchange information between the actors. However, programmes still need to be developed to make the information exchanged from these databases consultable on the ground. As long as this development phase is not completed, the general entry into service in all domains cannot therefore take place. You asked how much time a verdict will be recorded in MACH. On the basis of an information bulletin, the necessary information is immediately transmitted digitally to the Central Criminal Register. Since 2015, all police court clerks have had access to that Central Criminal Register.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u20	If I understand correctly, Minister, you say that all the information, including the information available with regard to the holding of a driving licence, is being introduced and that any cancellation of the right to drive is also being introduced. All information is therefore available, but the whole has yet to be unlocked. Computer programs still need to be developed. Was it not the intention of the Mercury project to use the information as well? It seems strange to me that information should be put together in a certain place where it cannot then be read by those who should be able to read it. I would ask you to follow this up so that this can be an effective means on the ground. You also say that all judgments are given through MACH. It is also important within what period of time this happens. I refer in this respect to a report by the Court of Auditors some time ago which stated that some of the Registrys were still subject to judgements, even beyond the limitation period and that it was not even possible to carry out the sentence imposed. It goes without saying that the use of that programme should be useful and necessary in itself within a reasonable period of time so that the penalty imposed can be implemented efficiently. I assume, however, that you are not insensitive to this either and that you will continue to follow up on the matter. Finally, I was spotted by people on the ground, perhaps you can take that with you. It is quite logical that, if such an instrument exists, parquet magistrates should also check whether the person who commits an infringement actually has a driving licence, because that way at least one can try to remove non-holder of a driving licence from circulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u21	Mr President, Minister, I would like to return to the plenary session on 21 December, which outlined the problems of someone who had previously been convicted and who had committed new facts before his first appeal case was dealt with. I asked you at the time whether such matters could not be dealt with as a matter of priority. You replied that you would consider it and possibly instruct it. My questions are very specific. Is this being effectively followed up? Is this being done or has it already been done? Are repeaters who were banned from driving followed and checked in a proactive manner, or are they waiting for someone to accidentally run into the lamp during a routine check-up? Or does the parquet, which is responsible for the execution, proactively carry out a check in the municipality in order to allow them to be intercepted when they are driving by car?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u22	Mrs Van Cauter, there are already instructions from the College of Attorneys General to deal with, among other things, the crimes and the cases you are talking about, such as the serious crimes, the need to obtain a speedy ban on driving for the police judge, repeated crime and so on. These instructions can be found in letter 10/2006 of which I can give you a copy. I will ask at the next meeting of the College whether it is necessary to amend the instructions and/or to re-emphasize them. In the case of the appeal and the request for a more rapid final judgment, it is, of course, the case that the public prosecutor makes an appeal within the time limit, but that the substantive progress of the hearing also depends to a large extent on the other parties and the decisions of the judicial court itself. As far as your third question is concerned, I've asked the police and the prosecution. Today, there are indeed proactive checks by multiple victims at the request of the public prosecutor or at the initiative of the police on the basis of suspicion of abuse. However, they are still limited. From the moment the database of driving licences Mercury is operational on the ground, general and comprehensive control with the ANPR will be possible. In cooperation with the Minister of the Interior, we will optimise the common guidelines known as MFO-3 in order to optimally match the ANPR use of the police to the needs of criminal execution. In the future, we will also seek a link between the Mercurius database and the police findings in the context of traffic infringements. That would make it possible for the prosecution to have better control over the execution of the sentence. Once a PV is drawn up in respect of a person who has committed an infringement but who has also been banned from driving, the public prosecutor will be automatically informed and, in cooperation with the police, will be able to take the necessary measures. I have therefore asked the steering committee of the Cross Border project to include this in the future developments of the MACH system of justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u23	Mr President, Minister, first of all, of course, the handling of an appeal file does not depend solely on the public prosecutor's office. It also depends on the way in which time limits, such as the period of reflection, are granted. However, progress can be accelerated by initiating the case in good time, which was precisely my question. In cases of serious traffic infringements, is there the possibility of fixing and initiating these matters as a matter of priority? In this way, there is at least a chance that rapid progress can be made with the dossier. I have your answer and will read it carefully again. However, let my questions at least be a reminder to pay attention to the problem. It is a pity that an appeal case is only initiated two years after, for example, a first instance polypler is convicted and that in the meantime the multipler feels that he or she is getting away well. At the same time, it leaves open the possibility that the person concerned will continue to drive and that serious facts will again be committed, which could be avoided, should the case be fixed quickly at the level of appeal. That is in the hands of the prosecution, of course, regardless of the progress at the hearing. I assume, however, that at that level too, everyone can assume their responsibilities. Secondly, with regard to your response to the question of proactive controls, it is good that these checks are carried out on the ground. That is all the more reason to quickly follow up on the access of the Mercury database so that it can be consulted effectively when one wants to proactively check.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u24	Mr Minister, the so-called potpourri-II law introduced in Article 204 of the Code of Criminal Procedure the obligation to lodge a declaration of appeal and an application to the Registry within the time limit, on the penalty of lapse of appeal, and to determine precisely the complaints brought against a judgment. The third paragraph of that article provides that the applicant may use a form the model of which is determined by the King. At KB of 23 November 2017, a previously introduced model of grievance form was replaced. A new model was introduced which makes it possible to tick the grievances, with a brief explanation of the reasons. There is always an open space for the reasons, in the boxes provided for them. Therefore, the model form established by KB seems to differ from the legal provisions. The Court of Cassation made it clear that, in the case of a complaint referred to in Article 204 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the specific designation by the appellant of a separate decision of the appeals judgment of which he is seeking reform by the apple court, it is not necessary for the appellant to state in his application or complaint form the reasons for his request for reform. I have the following questions. Will a judge declare the appeal void because the appellant on the complaint form has not given the reasons why he wishes to see a particular part of the decision reformed? The standard form now states literally: "The contested decisions of the appeals tick judgment and briefly state the reasons why the decision given at first instance should be amended. It is not precisely certain complaints which lead to the expiry of the appeal." This gives at least the impression that the failure to give up the reasons for reform leads to the decline of the appeal. Can you clarify that, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u25	Mrs Van Cauter, I must first inform you that the law itself, namely Article 204 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, has not been amended since the law of 5 February 2016. The provision is clear. I quote: 'In the event of the appeal being terminated, the application shall accurately determine the complaints lodged against the judgment, including the procedural complaints, and the application shall be lodged within the same time limit and at the same Registry as the statement of appeal referred to in Article 203. For this purpose, a form, the specimen of which is determined by the King, may be used." In the explanatory memorandum to the amendment of the law, it is also clearly stated that giving up the grievances also implies the disclosure of the reasons for requesting the reform of the provisions of the contested judgment. The amendment of the law of 5 February 2016 aimed at more effective treatment of criminal proceedings in appeals, mainly by introducing an obligation to accurately determine the complaints brought against the appeals judgment. This will enable the debate on appeal to be conducted more punctually, to avoid pointless remedies and to remedy the fact that the appeal procedure is still regarded as an unlimited second chance. The amendment of the complaint form through the Royal Decree of 23 November 2017 stems from the request made in the field and has been developed after consultation with magistrates of the seat and of the Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as the Court of Cassation. The new complaint form through this Royal Decree, which is not mandatory, opts for open headings, the summary of which may clearly inform the apple court as to the points and reasons of the appeal. However, the submission of the application or complaint form with a precise statement of the complaints does not imply that the pleas must already be set out and developed. Therefore, the complaint form established by Royal Decree does not deviate from the law, but simplifies its interpretation. The Council of State did not comment on this. It is, after all, always up to the court of appeal to judge, in a factual manner, whether the appellant in the application or the complaint form has given sufficient precision to his complaints against the appeal judgment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u26	Minister, during the parliamentary discussion we held an exchange of views in the Committee on Justice. You confirm that the complaint form, indicating the subject-matter of the appeal, is sufficient to appeal in a valid and admissible manner. In my view, it cannot be the intention to make the admissibility of an appeal conditional on a fully detailed statement of reasons, both in law and in fact. Let me read your answer again, Minister. You say that the designation of the complaints must be precise in order to be able to speak of an admissible appeal. Does "precise" also mean that there is a need for motivation? The model form has indeed worked with open headings and mentions the reasons for appealing against a particular decision. I didn't think this was the intention of the change of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u27	Exceptional answer, ma'am. The law says "precisely the grievances." The statement of reasons shall state that the reasons shall be published. I have made it clear once again that this does not mean that resources need to be developed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u28	Question No 23384 by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question. Question No 23391 by Mr Flahaux will be dealt with in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u29	Mr President, I propose that I ask all my questions in succession so that a combined answer can be given. Minister, several media sources have recently indicated that the average bet of a Lottery player is EUR 4.9, which represents a modest contribution. Do you know the average wager of the private operators? In an article by Het Nieuwsblad of 30 November I read that the lottery and scratch games represent a weaker addiction rate. For casino games, however, the addiction rate is highest. Wouldn't it be interesting to impose moderators in proportion to the addiction rate? Could not the strictest and highest number of moderators be imposed on games that involve the highest risk of addiction? Isn't it better to ban bonuses or just grant bonuses for very low amounts and without conditions? The management contract of the National Lottery stipulates that the National Lottery must pay EUR 320 million to the State each year. Do you know how much the private operators are depositing to the State? In an article in Het Nieuwsblad in December I read a summary of a study by the University of Ghent about the games of chance. The article says that the online players themselves ask for more rules. By the way, Marjolein De Paepe stated in Day All of 23 January that the sector has taken sufficient measures to reduce the risk of addiction. Minister, do you think this is true, are there sufficient measures against addiction risks? Is Mrs. De Paepe's theorem not contrary to what the players say? During the hearings on the Gaming Commission, the agreement to be concluded between the municipalities and the candidate betting office was discussed. This measure, combined with a reduction in the number of betting offices from 680 to 600, would mean that many people would turn to fake daily shops. However, the new rules will not change the rules governing the establishment and operation of a daily newspaper trade. In this year's memorandum, the VVSG has proposed that the rules for the establishment and operation of daily newspapers should also be amended and that municipalities should be able to issue an opinion on the F2 licence of daily dealers, by analogy with the betting offices. A list of municipalities wishing to issue opinions and/or in which the Gaming Commission does not issue a permit before receiving the advice of the municipality can be used. The municipalities may be given the possibility to issue the operating licence for newspaper dealers. Legal provisions for betting offices can also be imposed on daily dealers with a licence F2. The Procurator of the King or the Labour Auditor may be given the opportunity to suspend the gaming license if the requirements of the position or the conditions of operation of the daily newspaper trade are not met during the gambling checks until the Gaming Commission decides on a penalty. Is it not appropriate, as proposed by the VVSG, to change the rules governing the establishment and operation of daily newspapers? Then I come to my sixth question. The new draft law will align the rules of Category IV betting offices with those of the gaming halls. This means that a covenant will have to be concluded between the municipalities and the candidate betting office. Is it not appropriate to also provide for the possibility of subjecting the betting offices to a prior establishment permit of the municipality, as is already the case for night shops and private telecommunications agencies, the so-called call shops? Then I come to my last question about gambling. Today virtual bets are banned as they are not regulated. However, it should be noted that these are offered on many online platforms. Mr Minister, how is this monitored and sanctioned so far? Does the Gaming Commission consider that this ban should be retained in the new regulation or that the choice should be made to regulate these virtual games? How does the Gaming Commission view a total ban on online gambling or at least a ban on online casino games, as is the case in the Netherlands, France and Germany?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u30	Mrs Lambrecht, allow me to begin by saying that regardless of whether one is for or against gambling, Belgium has a system in which games of chance are allowed subject to authorisation by the Gaming Commission. It is a matter of prime importance where there are different ideologies, from a completely free market to an absolute ban on gambling. The regulation that governs the issue is often the result of a compromise. Unlike the National Lottery, private operators on the gambling market have no management agreement with the State. However, they do generate revenue for the government through, for example, the specific regional tax on games and bets and the VAT that online operators owe since 2017. Belgium's gambling policy is among the strictest in the world. The exclusion system through the excluded person information system or EPIS provides a central access ban, both offline and online, and enjoys the necessary recognition abroad, often with separate exclusions per establishment. In addition, gambling sites should also be required to place a banner on the website that refers to the assistance, www.gokhulp.be. To date there is no scientific study that clearly identifies the difference in addiction risk according to the type of game. However, the general principle is that the shorter the time between the bet and the result is, the more potentially addictive the game is. That is also why for a number of games of chance at KB the maximum wager, the average hourly loss and the winnings are recorded. The problem of bonuses is contained in a future RB on stricter regulation of advertising. An average bet of the players is not known to me. There is, of course, room for improvement, as always, but I believe that we already have some good protection measures at our disposal today. As far as online gambling is concerned, the Gaming Commission is currently strongly committed to refining the identification procedures to make them more coherent. However, this remains a complex fact. The choice to allow online gambling was made by the legislator in 2010 by creating the possibility to issue licences online by the Gaming Commission. The current online offer of virtual bets is checked using the central hotline of the Gaming Commission. If a complaint comes in, a check will be made to see if there is a problem with the regulation. If there is an infringement, the Gaming Commission may initiate a sanction procedure. A KB that regulates virtual gambling in the physical betting offices is still waiting for an opinion from the Council of State. Finally, future legislation does indeed provide for the obligation for betting firms to conclude a covenant with the municipality prior to obtaining a gaming license. This covenant will determine where the gaming facility is located, the detailed conditions, the opening and closing hours, the opening and closing days of the betting office, and who supervises the municipal supervision. These possibilities within this covenant already ensure the participation of the municipality and an additional establishment permit seems to offer limited added value. With regard to the fake daily newspapers which might arise in an attempt to circumvent the stricter rules around the betting offices, I have asked the Gaming Commission to pay particular attention to this problem and, where appropriate, to take action where it finds infringements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u31	Thank you, Minister. I welcome the serious handling of the possible addiction effects of all these systems. We are among the strictest in the world and that is very okay, but if you look around on the Internet, you can easily get to sites from other countries. I think it is necessary to look at and monitor addiction rates here, with or without Health. After all, I think that they are increasing rather than decreasing, and that is a great danger to the society in which we live, especially to minors who, as we noted at the hearings, by logging in with other accounts, are at risk of becoming victims of many addictions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u32	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Konrad Degroote's proposal was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u33	Mr President, Minister, I am told by hunters that the police would have been given a general directive that if, as a result of checks in traffic or outside the country, a person carrying a weapon cannot show his model 9 would be seized immediately. Model 9 is a transfer and registration document, not a title of weapon possession or weaponry. The title of weapon possession is still for a hunter and only hunting leave. Pursuant to Article 12 of the Arms Act, hunters are exempt from permits and nowhere is it stated that they should have a model 9 on hand. I also refer to Article 25 of the Royal Decree of 20 September 1991 and a judgment of the Council of State of 29 June 2015. Mr Minister, I have explained the question a little further in writing, but I will come to my very specific questions. Is it true that there is a general directive that if a hunter cannot submit his model 9 form, the seizure will take place immediately? If so, do you support this directive and on the basis of what legal basis will it be seized? Who is this directive based on, if any? If this directive does not exist, why is it that the police authorities are immediately impounded when a hunter cannot submit his model 9 form? Will you take the initiative to clarify this situation so that hunters on the ground are not always confronted with this highly unusual situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u34	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, at the end of last week the situation you described was first raised with us by a hunting association. My cabinet immediately contacted the association to find out in which police areas the practice of seizure is taking place. The association hasn't given us that information yet. We could not find out any more through the permanent committee of the local police. If there is a general directive on this matter, it was not issued by my administration or by the College of Attorneys General. Our analysis shows that it is indeed sufficient for a hunter to carry his hunting leave while carrying his hunting weapons. This follows, among other things, from Article 21 of the Arms Act. The seizure of hunting weapons when the hunter does not carry a model 9 for those weapons, according to my services and according to the College of Attorney General, therefore has no legal basis whatsoever. Moreover, the recent legislative amendment has not changed this. My administration will continue to try to find out exactly in which police areas the problem arises and will inform them of our position.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u35	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for your very clear answer, which will at least remove the misconception in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u36	Mr President, Minister, last week I asked a question about the non-implementation of Protocol 436, which raised the problem of sleeping prisoners on mattresses in Bruges prison. Is it an isolated problem that only appears in Bruges, or is it also found in other prisons? That is why I have the following questions. Firstly, Minister, how many prisoners slept on the ground in January 2018 per prison in Belgium? Secondly, how many prisoners are sleeping on the ground today per prison in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u37	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, like you, I regret the fact that prisoners are sleeping on the floor on a mattress in several prisons. That is the case in Antwerp, Bruges, Ghent, Hasselt, Ypres, Marche and Nivelles. In total, it's about 125 inmates. I will provide the secretariat of the committee with a table showing the breakdown by establishment. I will do everything in my power to ensure that additional capacity is available in the existing facilities in the reasonably short term, in order to address the problem. The prison in Bruges is concerned with two sections, which are currently closed because of lack of staff. Provision has also been made to create additional recording capacity in Beveren and Leuze prisons. A renovation of some seventy cells in the Leuven-Central prison has recently been completed. Together with the administration, we monitor the problem day after day in our search for solutions that could solve the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u38	Mr President, Minister, I did not agree with the first part of your reply. Can you repeat exactly where you sleep on mattresses? About Bruges, I've heard that two sections are closed. How many inmates sleep there on mattresses? That was a question, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u39	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, you will, of course, receive an immediate answer on prisons. For the prison in Bruges, I think I remember it being about 18 prisoners. However, I do not remember that answer. That number seems to be pretty good. After all, in my list, which you're getting, it says that it's about 11 inmates. So I went a little above it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u40	Mr President, Minister, the President of the French-speaking commercial court in Brussels has decided on a series of measures concerning the functioning of the court's registries. The transplants will be closed to the public from 12:30 p.m., faxes will be disabled, telephone calls will no longer be answered in the afternoon,... At the origin of these measures, the explosion in the number of unfilled posts in the court and in the registry offices, the figures speak for themselves: 26 places remain vacant in a framework of 59, or 44 per cent of vacant places. With regard to the transplant, the framework is filled to only 55%. The President announced that, for budgetary reasons in particular, these vacant places were not published and also to mention that, if contractual commitments had been made, the situation remained particularly critical. And to close by recalling the constant increase in the workload in commercial courts. Minister, you will agree with me that the situation is dramatic. Why are vacant places not published? When can we expect them to be? The closure of the transplants has consequences for both litigants and lawyers, how do you intend to remedy this situation in practice and quickly? How many contractual commitments have been made? Why hire contractors?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u41	Mrs Özen, here are the current data on the situation of the French-speaking commercial court in Brussels. The fourteen magistrates are 100 per cent qualified. One of them will leave early on 1 April due to the publication of a vacancy last November. 81 per cent of the judicial staff are staffed. Last January, five vacancies for the level C assistant position were published. According to the information available to the SPF Justice, two clerks are on long-term medical leave. The procedure for delegation of Registrars has already been opened. The court must also respond to the absence for sick leave of five employees, three of whom are on very long leave. However, they are not included in the 81 per cent, as there are 22.5 officers in a framework of 24. The appointment of a chief clerk and two chief clerks is problematic, as the position of the chief clerk has already been published five times and that of the chief clerks six times. However, no applications have been received so far. While awaiting appointment, these functions are fortunately performed by staff members who are delegated to them. In order to attract candidates, I propose to the president of the court that the appointment procedure be extended to intra-federal mobility or even external recruitment. For the rest, work is being done to reduce the workload. The figures show that the procedures for undisputed claims have been halved, including in Brussels. RegSol's beginnings in Brussels have experienced a few young people's diseases, which have gradually been treated. It is logical that some time is required to become familiar with new computer applications. Moreover, it is planned to integrate the Mach application into commercial courts in the short term. In this way, the work of the clerk will be facilitated by experience in the courts that already use it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u42	Minister, I will take the trouble of carefully analysing the figures that you provided to us today. You're talking about the light workload, the full management, you're minimizing the situation of the clerks. Therefore, why was a letter sent by the President of the French-speaking commercial court in Brussels on this subject? Between what you say and the problem of the proper functioning of justice that people on the ground are saying, there is more than a gap. Additional resources must be made available. Other recruitment procedures need to be implemented to address the shortage of staff and to ensure that these registries work and that justice is accessible to all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u43	Question No 23417 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u44	Minister, as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I was appointed rapporteur at the beginning of last year on, I quote, 'the need to draw up a European convention on the profession of lawyer'. A number of hearings have been held for this report. On 12 December 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs unanimously voted in favour of the creation of a European convention on the profession of lawyer. On 24 January 2018, the plenary session of the Council of Europe adopted this proposal. Lawyers play a key role in safeguarding human rights and safeguarding the rule of law. However, it is worrying that lawyers in certain countries are still faced with intimidation, threats and attacks. That was clearly demonstrated by the hearings. As far as the possible content of a future convention is concerned, there are already basic standards that are relevant to the legal profession, such as the European Convention on Human Rights and the case law of the European Court of Justice. But these standards are not binding, as are the other standards proposed by international lawyers' associations, among others. The transposition of existing non-binding standards into a binding instrument is necessary. The new treaty will respond to this. A rapid and flexible early warning mechanism is also set up to respond to immediate threats to the security and independence of lawyers. I would like to inform the Minister of this and ask him whether he is joining the plenary session of the Council of Europe in the area of the need to draw up such a convention, and whether there are certain points on which the Minister wishes to draw attention in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u45	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, I have been able to take note of the report of 12 December. Lawyers play a key role in safeguarding human rights and the rule of law. I also find it worrying that lawyers in certain countries are still faced with intimidation, threats and attacks, as demonstrated by the hearings of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I am assisting the Parliamentary Assembly on the need to draw up a European convention to protect the profession of lawyer. Basic texts that are relevant to the legal profession already exist today, such as a resolution on the independence of judges and lawyers, and also Recommendation 21 of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers on the freedom to exercise the profession of lawyer. However, at the level of the Council of Europe, there is so far no binding legal framework defining the scope of the profession with its rights and obligations, such as respect for professional secrecy, the confidentiality of the dialogue between the lawyer and his client and a civil and criminal immunity for the lawyer's statements in the context of his professional activities. In this context, I think it is very important that, as requested by the Parliamentary Assembly, there is an effective monitoring mechanism that could comment on periodic reports by the Member States on compliance with the Convention. It is equally important that there should be a rapid and flexible early warning mechanism to respond to immediate threats to security and to the independence of lawyers modelled on the platform for strengthening the protection of journalism and the security of journalists. Moreover, as the Parliamentary Assembly states, such a platform could even be included in a wider future platform to protect all human rights defenders.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u46	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his support and for recognising the need for such a convention. What was voted on in the Council of Europe last month is only a first step. It is now up to the Committee of Ministers to give an answer on this need within six months. Only then can we effectively draw up such a treaty. I thank the Minister for his support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u47	The incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u48	Mr Thiébaut was to ask the Minister for Mobility question No. 23276. It is transferred here to the Minister of Justice about the lack of support for the victims of the Buizingen disaster.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u49	Minister, almost eight years ago, one of the worst tragedies in our country was the rail disaster in Buizingen, on February 15, 2010. She took the lives of 19 people and injured 162. If the pain of the families, the relatives of the victims and the survivors will remain eternal, it is unfortunately far from fading due to the consequences of the accident. The lack of support and the absence of a trial to date only exacerbates anger and resignation. A few weeks ago, with the Prime Minister, you received representatives of the ASBL "Buizingen Railway Catastrophe: never again!" It was an opportunity to take stock of a number of claims that were important to them. In my view, the resulting report has given rise to many disappointments. Their request for victim status was rejected; the abnormally long length of court proceedings had not been explained to them and no support had been offered for the reimbursement of legal costs. Minister, why refuse to grant a "disaster victim" status to the victims of Buizingen? Is parallelism with the victims of the terrorist attacks in Brussels so unfounded? As far as the trial is concerned, the opening hearing of the Buizingen case would be scheduled for 26 March 2018, more than eight years after the disaster. Do you confirm this date? Why a delay so long? How do you justify to the victims that the reasonable period of time is so far exceeded by the courts? Finally, with regard to the costs of justice, bereaved families and survivors of the disaster complained of having to pay themselves to obtain a copy of the legal file. In view of the abnormally long procedure, would it be possible to provide financial support from the State for them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u50	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, thank you. First of all, allow me to express my understanding and condolences for the victims of this horrific event. I imagine very well that the absence of a trial on the merits, so many years after the facts, leads to frustrations among all those who have been involved in it in one way or another. The Hal-Vilvorde Public Prosecutor's Office has been very transparent in this regard towards the victims, including a website www.buizingen150210.be which provides more information on the progress of the trial. It explains the development of this judicial investigation and outlines a timetable. You will find with me that the expertise, giving the parties concerned the opportunity to make their comments, took some time. After the investigation had been communicated by the investigating judge, the Public Prosecutor's Office had drawn up a final requisition in less than two months. At the hearing of the Board of Counsel, held on April 24, 2017, procedural law was used to request further expertise, resulting in further delay in the proceedings. On 26 March 2018, the Chamber of Counsel will decide whether the case should be referred to the Hal Police Court. I have made it very clear that there should be a reception of victims at this hearing in order to assist them where it is possible to do so. It is true that a delegation of victims of the Buizingen rail disaster also contacted collaborators of my strategic cell and that of the Prime Minister. I have read the letter sent as a result of these contacts. We explained to them that in the matter of copying costs, a maximum ceiling could not be exceeded but that a full fee was not currently possible, given the operating costs of the justice system. As part of the ongoing digitization of files, we strive to reduce these costs for all parties in the future. As regards the extension of the possibility of granting the status of national solidarity, I must refer you to my colleague, Maggie De Block, competent for the law of 18 July 2017 relating to the national status.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u51	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I will certainly turn to your colleague, Maggie De Block, for a part of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u52	Question No 23549 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u53	Minister, last weekend, a dramatic event bereaved Italy: a young armed man gave himself up to a shooting aimed at black-skinned people on the streets of his city. The first elements of the investigation show the extreme right-wing sympathies of the author of the facts: Celtic cross in his room, copy of Mein Kampf, literature on Mussolini, and other "joyets". In this context, one can only think of the statements of Julian King, European Commissioner for Security, who said last March that Europe should not neglect the security risks associated with the far right. Mr Minister, my question is simple: what measures are being taken today, within your powers, to combat extreme right-wing movements in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u54	Mr Thiébaut, the Sûreté de l'État has an "ideological extremism" team that closely follows the potentially violent behaviour of the far right and the far left. For the VSSE (State Security), the monitoring of the far right remains a priority, even in times of Islamic terrorism, in particular in order to detect possible counter-actions on the part of the far right. Like jihadist terrorism, the threat posed by the extreme right lies in less extremist groups but also in isolated and more difficult to trace actors. Thanks to the amendment in February 2017 of the legislation on special methods of intelligence, the VSSE is now in a position to apply them in cases relating to ideological extremism. As part of the plan to combat radicalism, the VSSE cooperates with other services such as the OCAM, the CGRS, the Federal Police and the Crisis Centre, in order to monitor the main threats emanating from the far right. This mission is carried out, in particular, at the national level, in a thematic working group which meets regularly and at the local level within the local task forces. In addition, the aim is to expand the common "Foreign Terrorism Fighters" database by including the "Homegrown Terrorism Fighters" database, which also includes terrorism inspired by far-left and far-right ideologies. This aspect has clearly become a necessity, given that the latter has committed or sponsored some ten attacks in Europe and North America over the past two years. Some of them have been thwarted in time by intelligence and security services in different places around the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u55	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic817x.u56	Questions No 23561 by Mr Emir Kir and No 23574 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin are transformed into written questions.
