ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u1	Mr. Secretary of State, in September 2016, the 193 members of the UN General Assembly unanimously adopted a text aimed at improving migration management (reception and return aid). On the basis of that text, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees had been mandated to propose a global compact on migration, which was intended to provide responses to the problem and joint programmes of action for the 192 members of the United Nations General Assembly, bearing in mind that the United States had withdrawn from the discussions. This pact is expected to be signed next December in Morocco. Negotiations for this agreement must begin shortly. Six rounds of observations are planned until July this year. Secretary of State, can you give us more details on the schedule of discussions? What will be the composition of the Belgian delegation to attend these negotiations? Has there been any consultation at Belgian level in order to establish the position Belgium will take in these discussions? If so, can you explain it to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u2	Mr Crusnière, at the adoption of the New York Declaration by the UN General Assembly in September 2016, world leaders agreed to start negotiations to develop a Global Compact on Refugees coordinated by UNHCR in Geneva and a Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration. The work of the Global Compact for Migration (GCM) is subdivided into three phases. Phase 1 (April to November 2017) is a consultation phase to provide an overview of the migration phenomenon. This phase consisted of six informal thematic consultations, five regional consultations organized by the United Nations regional economic commissions, various national consultations (consultations through regional consultative processes), two international migration dialogues organized by IOM and seven regional civil society consultations. Phase 2 consisted of an evaluation meeting held in early December 2017 at which the results of the various consultations were presented. This allowed the stakeholders of the meeting to reflect in an interactive way on the different themes discussed. This led to the drafting of two documents: a report by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Guterres, Making Migration Work for All, and a preliminary draft document prepared by the two co-facilitators. The latter serves as the basis for intergovernmental negotiations, which constitute phase 3. These negotiations within the United Nations in New York will take place monthly, between February and July, for four days. Rounds of negotiations were held from 20 to 23 February, from 12 to 15 March and from 3 to 6 April. The following are scheduled for 14-18 May, 4-8 June and 9-13 July. The preliminary draft will be adapted by the co-facilitators after each round of negotiations. The objective is to submit the final document during this second session of the United Nations General Assembly in September 2018. The Intergovernmental Conference at which the text for the GCM will be adopted will be held in Marrakech on 10 and 11 December 2018. The Belgian delegation during the intergovernmental negotiations consists of a diplomat from the Permanent Representation to the United Nations in New York, accompanied once in two by the Belgian Special Envoy for Asylum and Migration. The coordination of the Belgian position is ensured, at the meetings of the Core Multi, at the Foreign Affairs in the presence of the Special Envoy's department, the relevant cabinets and experts. Coordination of the position of the European Union takes place both in Brussels within the high level working group in the Council of the European Union and in New York within the European Union delegation. Important points for the Belgian position are: to support the general objective of the GCM to create legal, secure and orderly migration opportunities with respect for the national sovereignty of each State; to support the clear reference to the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals; to support a rights-based approach to migration; and to support the non-binding nature of the GCM in order to ensure a rigorous monitoring mechanism. Supporting better orderly and managed migration also means preventing and combating illegal migration as much as possible, in particular by clearly specifying in the Pact that the responsibility for return and reintegration lies primarily with the country of origin.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your very comprehensive answer, which gives us a clearer idea of the timing and objectives of this project, which I can share. I would like Parliament to be involved in this reflection and to be informed as the matter progresses. This important document will be voted on in Morocco at the end of the year. Even if it is not binding, it seems interesting to me because of the objectives to be achieved. I will write to the President of the House and to the chairman of the committee, so that we can hear you again about this draft migration pact and with a view to organising the hearing of the Belgian Special Envoy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, Belgium has around 25 000 reception places for asylum seekers. The network consists of collective and individual reception structures. Collective structures are centres run by Fedasil, the Belgian Red Cross or other partners, and individual structures are housing run by CPAS or NGOs. Since 2015, a large number of municipalities have had to increase their capacity to receive asylum seekers at the request of your predecessor, Mr Borsus. The CPAS of these municipalities have therefore, in agreement with Fedasil, set up local reception initiatives (ILA). No one is unaware of the crisis of migrants and no one is insensitive to the difficulties of accommodation of migrants – whether they are part of an asylum application procedure or not – or of all other citizens who cannot benefit from decent housing. Recently, the severe colds have only reinforced these difficulties for which CPAS must be able to provide concrete, immediate and temporary solutions. You have been contacted by some CPAS, who told you that newly created ILA squares at the request of the federal authorities are very little or not occupied at all. The municipality of Silly, for example, now has 10 available reception places for which an agreement with Fedasil is concluded and for which legal subsidies are collected. Humanly, this situation challenges me because it is not understandable that citizens, regardless of their nationality or administrative situation, are daily confronted with intolerable conditions of lack of accommodation. Mr Secretary of State, for these CPAS, are there any legal possibilities for them to accommodate persons without housing in ILA places, on a temporary basis or, at least, during periods of cold weather? If so, what are the possible steps to be taken in this direction? If not, do you intend to take an initiative to expand reception opportunities? Can you guarantee that federal grants for these ALIs will be maintained in the event of temporary occupation by persons without refugee status? If so, under what conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u5	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, the ILA initiatives are organised by the CPAS as part of a convention with Fedasil, in accordance with the Act of 12 January 2017 on the reception of asylum seekers and certain other categories of foreigners. Such housing is, therefore, provided exclusively for the public covered by this Act. In order to qualify for the subsidy under the "unoccupied spaces" tariff, the places available must, at any time, be able to be used by Fedasil for the audiences covered by the law. To allow CPAS to use empty reception spaces for purposes other than those provided for in the convention linking them to Fedasil, an alternative is to agree to a suspension of the agreement with Fedasil. In this case, however, there will no longer be any subsidy paid by Fedasil during the suspension period. As explained above, Fedasil's grants to its host partners are provided only for the audiences covered by the law and the agreement between them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u6	Secretary of State, thank you for giving me an answer. It is obviously a "no" and a non-return end that you propose here. You have a colleague in charge of social integration at the federal government level. It would have been of common sense but, humanly, also the minimum that as Secretary of State in charge of Asylum and Migration, you would have reached an agreement with Minister Ducrame in charge of Social Integration to use physical places in the best possible way depending on the situation. When it comes to refugees, it falls within your competence, namely the Asylum and Migration. Conversely, if these places are not occupied, when there are serious and cruel needs in the field of social integration's competences, these buildings should be used. Secretary of State, your answer leaves a bitter taste because within the same government you do not have the ability or the desire to work in a cross-cutting and intelligent way. You send the CPAS back and say, "I don't care, if that's the way it is, we cut the subsidies." In the end, these physical places are lost. I think that's really a shame. I'm still making this proposal. Why don't you have the opportunity to work cross-sectionally with your colleague, Minister Ducrame? In any case, these are responsibilities in the same government, with requests for additional seats at certain times. It is a shame not to use in the most appropriate and humane way possible, those places that exist in any physical way. I'm going to interview your colleague. I hope that there will be an opening in this area and that we will still be able to move forward on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u7	Mrs Fonck, asylum seekers have seats. There is no asylum seeker in Belgium who does not have a reception place. You're talking about refugees. When they seek asylum, they are given a place. You're talking about illegal migrants. It's against the law. It's not a law I introduced. The law has been in existence for 37 years in Belgium. These are different categories. You want Fedasil's reception law to be adapted and open to migrants who do not seek asylum in Belgium. You can always introduce a bill. But it is very clear that this is impossible with the current law. We can still discuss it if you introduce a proposal. But my position is that I am not in favour of extending the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u8	You didn't understand the question!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u9	I get it very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u10	I am talking about social integration, a competence of another minister in your government, in this case Mr Ducrame. It is about people who are neither refugees, nor migrants, but simply Belgians who, for quite other reasons, are at some point without housing. We are well within the framework of social integration. I'm just saying these are places that, physically, are free. They exist. Rather than leaving them free, while there are sometimes people on the street who are not refugees, nor migrants, but who come under the jurisdiction of one of your government colleagues...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u11	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u12	I'm trying to finish my sentence, Mr. President. When we talk about subsidies that are suspended, it means, and you know as well as I do, that it puts the municipalities in trouble. Conversely, an agreement with the Minister of Social Integration would make it possible to use these places as efficiently as possible, for the benefit of people on the street. I was talking in particular about Belgians to draw your attention. A dwelling is free in times of great cold, and they cannot even occupy it! That is simply the meaning of my proposal. I dare to hope – one can always dream – that an opening will be made in the future, because it is a simple matter of common sense, unrelated to migrants, since it concerns our compatriots first and foremost.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u13	Debates of the European Parliament 24341 by Mrs Smeyers will be dealt with later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u14	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my question dates from 13 March and concerns the follow-up committee. Following the Sudan crisis, the problems of sending people back to Sudan, it was decided that there would be a follow-up committee. We have been working on this before. Mrs Monica De Coninck has also put forward a proposal on return policy in unsuspecting times, following the Vermeersch report. We have heard from the media that there will be a follow-up committee on return policy, chaired by Professor Bossuyt. This committee would examine all aspects of return policy. The newspapers also mentioned who would be on the committee. It concerns a representation of DVZ, the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police, the AIG and representatives of the airlines and pilot associations. These are all people involved in the export policy, in the expulsion policy. However, I believe that it is the intention to do so more broadly, to evaluate the whole of the return policy and not to focus on what used to be in the Vermeersch Committee, namely the final phase of the expulsion policy. We have also insisted on extending it to include the way in which voluntary return takes place. Does it go well or not? What could be improved? How does the review of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights proceed? If asylum was applied for, it would be done by the Commissioner-General. If no asylum application was made, it falls under the responsibility of DVZ. A number of issues have been included in the Sudan evaluation report. Firstly, I have a number of questions about the composition of the committee with mainly people who are themselves involved. That's gonna make you think. Are there also possibilities for other members to sit on the committee, such as people from the academic world, of Myria and representatives of NGOs as experts? We are talking about more members from the academic world than just the chairman, people who are familiar with the problem. Can the Committee invite external experts to its work? That way the gap could be caught anyway. As we have said, all aspects of return policy should be looked at. Will it also evaluate the procedures for decisions, i.e. the way in which certain decisions are taken? To what extent will the Committee also examine the review of Article 3 of the ECHR in the event of expulsion decisions? Is the committee also evaluating how identification missions are organised? In what way will the committee examine the phase immediately following the removal, namely the succession of people in their home country or possibly a third country to which they were removed? Is the way in which the current control bodies carry out their tasks, for example the AIG, also being examined? I also have questions about the legal basis on which the committee carries out its work. Was that committee established on the basis of a royal decree? If so, can you get us that? What research possibilities and financial possibilities does the committee have? Does she receive her own budgets and staff for her duties? Who are these staff members? Are they posted staff and who is in charge? The events of recent months call for maximum transparency in return policy. You yourself indicated that you were prepared to do so. It is extremely important that Parliament should also be fully involved in this and that it should be able to exercise its supervisory role. How will the feedback from the committee to Parliament be done, in particular to our Committee on the Interior? Is there an interim report to Parliament? To what extent and how can the committee report problems that urgently require a solution, so that changes can be applied immediately? Perhaps you would suggest that we evaluate this after six months, but if the committee conflicts with its supervision, can the committee respond immediately if necessary to the competent authorities or to you immediately to remedy the problem, rather than waiting until six months or a year after the facts?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, the Federal Government statement of 9 February 2018 expressed the will to set up a committee to evaluate the practical implementation of the legal and regulatory provisions in the context of return policy. Its tasks are further defined in the Declaration of Establishment. This committee is responsible for evaluating the practical implementation of the legal and regulatory provisions in the context of return policy and cooperation between the different actors. It will report on this at regular intervals. A little later in the year, it will issue an interim report with recommendations, which will be submitted to the Minister of the Interior and myself. It may always invite other members or experts to be heard or to communicate information at their disposal. The committee's external communication is done by the chairman of the committee. The remuneration of the members will be worked out by a royal decree. The committee will call on FPS Home Affairs staff. No new staff shall be recruited to carry out the duties of the Commission. The first meeting was held on 9 March. A second meeting has also taken place. It's going well. Following the publication of the Sudan report, a committee meeting took place on a Friday afternoon, at which the Prime Minister, together with Minister Jambon, informed Parliament of the composition of the committee. You can read the parliamentary report. Of course, this happened after an agreement within the government. We do nothing with this committee but in the previous Vermeersch committees; it is also composed in the same way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u16	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have not yet received an answer to all my questions. What about the feedback to Parliament if the committee sees a problem? Will it then wait, or will it report it immediately?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u17	There'll be a report. The first report must come after a year and there will of course be a feedback to Parliament. That report will be discussed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u18	In itself, it is understandable that an overall assessment is made after a year, that is not a problem. The committee will probably look at a number of cases at random and will not always follow up. I understand that, but what if she sees something that really goes wrong and that has to be dealt with immediately, she won't wait and write it in her report a year later? That is also an important question I have asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u19	If anything goes wrong, I'll find out. If it really is a big problem, then we do not need a committee. I have an administration for that. There are police in Brunat for that and I will be informed immediately. So I don't know what you're talking about. If Professor Bossuyt and his committee come to a conclusion, they will certainly inform. That line's open. That will certainly be communicated to the cabinet. If there's anything acutely problematic, I'll also hear it directly from the Foreign Office or the police that does the removals. I don't need a commission for that. That's daily policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u20	I got an answer about the composition. You say that the committee can be supplemented by experts. However, I did not receive an answer on the substance: what exactly is being evaluated? Is it also about the procedures, the review of Article 3 of the ECHR and the identification missions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u21	I said that clearly. The committee is responsible for evaluating, firstly, the practical implementation of the legal and regulatory provisions in the context of return policy and, secondly, cooperation between the various actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u22	That means everything? So she can evaluate everything I've asked for?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u23	I don't know what you asked. I'm telling you exactly what the answer is.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u24	You also have my question on paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u25	I say what the committee's mission is, as discussed at its core, determined by the government and communicated by the Prime Minister a few months ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u26	There is the general definition, but I would ask whether we should interpret it in such a way that the procedures, the review of Article 3 of the ECHR and the identification missions can indeed be evaluated? In other words, is it about everything that includes return policy? To put it simply: the return policy includes several facets. Will the committee be able to evaluate these different aspects?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u27	The committee, of which my cabinet is not a member, is itself responsible for regulating its work. If it wishes to examine the review of Article 3 and other points, it must do so. That's not in my hands. Let me tell you what the committee's legal mandate is. One can interpret it very widely or very strictly. You must ask Mr Bossuyt. You can always invite him to a conversation, but knowing Mr Bossuyt, he will interpret that very widely. He's free to do that. I have nothing to say about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u28	I will conclude, Mr President. I thank the Secretary of State for the answer. It is perhaps a good thing that we invite Mr Bossuyt next month or the month after to hear how he sees his mission and how he will deal with it. Should I make that proposal in writing or is it recorded? Can we see when it fits into the agenda to invite him?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u29	We will have to discuss this in the rules of procedure and see whether the whole committee wishes to organise it and how, taking other priorities into account. However, it can be taken on board in this way. I assume your group will repeat it during the course of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u30	Nor is it intended to make it a half-day hearing; half an hour may suffice, so that Mr Bossuyt can explain how his committee works.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u31	Mr De Vriendt is in another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u32	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I had tabled a written question on these special flights. The deadline has expired. Maybe you'd like to take a look at that? If you'd like, I can give you a copy of that question. At the end of last year, the world was shocked by images of a CNN reportage showing how African migrants were almost sold as slaves per bid in Libya. In response to these harsh practices, the European Union, the African Union and the United Nations promised to set up a joint task force in November 2017. This joint task force aimed at liberating and delocalising the thousands of African migrants trapped in Libyan detention centres. In her presentation to the European Parliament on 13 March, Federica Mogherini pointed out that in the first two months of 2018 more than 16 000 migrants were released from these detention centres. This is good news. Most migrants were sent back to their homeland, but apparently there are also a number of refugees. According to Vincent Cochetel, Special Envoy for the UN Refugee Organisation, 1 334 vulnerable refugees have been evacuated from those Libyan detention centres. 312 of them have been evacuated to Italy and 2 to Romania. In addition, 1 020 refugees under the Emergency Transit Mechanism have been evacuated to Niger, awaiting resettlement to Europe. Of those 1 020, only 55 have so far been resettled, and almost all to France. According to the EU observer, a UN Agency official warned the European Parliament about cooperation with Niger. The country no longer wants to receive refugees and asylum seekers from Libyan detention centres until they are further transferred to EU Member States. According to the UN, this resettlement operation has therefore been suspended by the Government of Niger. This is, of course, problematic because there are still many vulnerable refugees in detention centres that still need to be liberated and re-established. In these detention centres, at least 160 refugees are waiting for resettlement to Niger and 205 are waiting for a decision from European countries. What is the Belgian attitude towards the resettlement of African refugees from Libyan detention centres? Does Belgium consider that there is sufficient resettlement from Niger? Why has Belgium not yet taken refugees from the Libyan detention centres? What will Belgium do to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u33	Belgium has allocated 87 relocations to the Regional Protection Programme in North Africa, including Niger, for the period from 31 October 2017 to 31 October 2019. The number of places for 2018 is 50. Belgium has not yet re-established any persons from Niger this year, but we are studying the operational aspects. Soon there will be a mission leaving as well. Only France and Switzerland have so far evacuated people from Libya and re-established them in Niger. The group of evacuated from Libya is diverse. The most important nationalities are from Eritrea and Somalia. Relocating people are granted refugee status in Belgium. Resettlement is therefore not possible solely on humanitarian grounds or in the absence of an international protection note in Libya, as provided for in the Refugee Convention. Further consideration is being given to the possibility of evacuating persons from Libya, a selection mission to Niger by the CGVS. In principle, I am in favour of such a mission because it allows additional examination of the dossiers proposed by the UNHCR. During such a resettlement mission, the CGVS conducts a detailed examination of the identity and refugee claim, with due attention to possible grounds of exclusion or indications of a danger to national security, as you do understand. However, an identification mission is likely to leave. Following an increasing migratory pressure from the Central Mediterranean route in 2017, UNHCR launched a call to resettlement countries on 11 September 2017 to offer 40,000 additional places for 15 countries on the Central Mediterranean route. For the sake of clarity, the call was not just addressed to Europe. Subsequently, on 27 September 2017, the Commission issued a Recommendation to offer at least 50 000 re-locations in the period from 31 October 2017 to 31 October 2019, focusing demand on a number of priorities, including the Central Mediterranean route, by resettling persons from Libya, Niger, Chad, Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan, including the temporal mechanism for emergency evacuation of vulnerable groups from Libya. However, no specific quota was set for Niger. At present 19 Member States have pled around 40 000 places, of which 7 000 places have been specifically allocated to countries on the Central Mediterranean route. Our country is entering into an important humanitarian commitment with a total pledge of 2 000 places, which we have always done in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u34	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, if I have understood correctly, we in Belgium have about 50 places for the target group, namely people who were in Libya and brought back to Libya and of whom we want to include 50 people or 50 of whom have already been included. What I didn't get is this. You state that an identification mission on resettlement will leave. Is this about civil servants from here moving over there?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u35	It's about people from the CGVS.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u36	Are these people going over there to look at, select and identify people and tell them that they can come to Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u37	This always happens with the resettlement and the Resettlement Program. The UNHCR always recommends files. The CGVS thus goes there and operates in complete independence there. Usually a few people from Fedasil also go along to give a course on standards and values, where there are sometimes cutters. We point out, for example, that in Belgian schools boys and girls must swim together and learn to swim. I've attended such an operation once. Our people do that fantastic and are very clear in a number of areas. Sometimes that's a problem. Some do not want to come to Belgium, because that is not true, often for religious reasons. Sometimes it happens that there are cutouts, sometimes for other reasons. Some of them have been selected, but they're not leaving. On second thought, they prefer to stay in the refugee camp or opt for resettlement in another country. Anyone who refuses to return to Belgium will be on a list. For example, the person concerned cannot choose to go to Germany. There are rules about that. It's going well. The CGVS will carry out an identification mission to Niger, scheduled for some time in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u38	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u39	Mrs Smeyers left her question No. Transform 24341 into a written question. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht Mr De Vriendt's 24635 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u40	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, on 9 March last the National Court of the Right to Asylum – little or no connection between France and our Council of the Litigation of Foreigners (CCE) – issued a judgment on the situation of an Afghan applicant. In that judgment, the Court found that the Afghan capital was "in a situation of indiscriminate violence of high intensity within the meaning of Article L.712-1 (c) of the Code of Entry and Residence of Foreigners and the right of asylum and the interpretation of the CJEU in Case C-465/07 Meki Elgafaji and Noor Elgafaji of 17 February 2009". As a reminder, the provision referred to the subsidiary protection granted to civilians in the event of internal or international armed conflict. She adds that the applicant "in the event of his return to Afghanistan and his return to Kabul, was at a real risk of serious damage within the meaning of these provisions solely because of his presence in that city". In order to establish the security situation in Kabul, the Court relied on the results of three deadly Taliban attacks in the capital in January 2018, the report of the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) entitled Country of Origin Information Report: Afghanistan - Security Situation, published in December 2017, and the report published by the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) in February 2018, entitled Afghanistan: Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict (Annual report 2017). This is an interesting decision. Since the level of violence is established by sources outside the Court, it seems to me that the conclusion that can be drawn from it should be binding on all. Secretary of State, what is your assessment of the situation of violence in Kabul? What conclusions are drawn with regard to the return of Afghans to or via the Afghan capital? Is the possibility of granting subsidiary protection to nationals of that country systematically considered? Are such removals planned at this stage? If so, how many? In view of this, is it possible to re-evaluate the files?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u41	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, first of all, I would like to remind you that applications for international protection are examined in Belgium by independent bodies, the first of which is the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CCRA), and in case of appeal, by the Council of the Litigation of Foreigners (CCE). The current practice of CGRA is as follows. There is no reason to automatically grant subsidiary protection status to applicants from Kabul because of the risk of being, as civilians, victims of indiscriminate violence in an armed conflict. The granting of subsidiary protection status granted on the basis of origin due to security conditions depends on the region of origin, the individual situation of the applicant and the possibility of a genuine possibility of internal leakage. The request for international protection shall be considered on the basis of a maximum of sources and indicators. The sources are much more numerous and varied than the only information about some recent attacks. The fact that an appeal body in one country has reached another conclusion for a given situation does not in itself constitute a reason to revise the policy in force. In many other Member States, case law goes in a different direction, i.e. there is no need to automatically grant subsidiary protection status. I fully trust the competent Belgian authorities to monitor the situation in Afghanistan on a permanent basis and to assess the situation independently on the basis of as many sources and indicators as possible in order, if necessary, to adapt the policy pursued. At present, according to these bodies, there is no need to adapt the policy pursued in Belgium. Therefore, with regard to persons for whom it has been established that there is no well-founded fear of persecution or real risk of serious harm, return to Afghanistan remains possible. On 5 April, four Afghans were kept in a closed centre in Ghent for their removal to Kabul. Sixteen other persons who have declared that they are Afghan nationals are still in the process of being identified. For the sake of completeness, I give you an overview of the remoteness of Afghan nationals. In 2017, there were 30 returns to the country of origin, 77 bilateral takeovers and 85 Dublin takeovers. In 2018, there were 3 returns to the country of origin, 11 bilateral takeovers and 10 Dublin takeovers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u42	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the figures you have given us. Despite the information in my question, I note that no changes have been made to the management of these files by the various independent bodies. I take note of this and will be attentive to the development of the case. Mr President, since I am also participating in the F-16 hearings, can I be warned when I have to come back and ask my other two questions? I'd be grateful if you did.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u43	Mr Secretary of State, Unicef has been fighting child marriages for years. This problem is still common worldwide, with 39 000 underage girls forced to marry out every day. Everyone should be able to choose their partner in complete freedom and with full conviction, and this requires sufficient maturity and adulthood. However, in some Asian and African countries we still see a large number of child marriages. In our country, as in many other countries, child marriages are not allowed. However, we sometimes have to acknowledge certain marriages that have been made abroad, even if that is a marriage to a minor. A marriage made in another country in accordance with the standards in force there, which is not contrary to international order, must be recognised by us. In this way, we in our country are faced with such marriages with minors, especially since the flow of refugees, especially in 2015 and 2016. In response to an earlier question from me, you said that in 2015 some twenty couples with a minor partner arrived in the centres in our country. In the first half of 2016 there were five such couples in our centers. A total of twenty-five couples were received by Fedasil's network in mid-2016, which involved a child bride. You said that married couples of whom one of the partners is underage are divorced by Fedasil upon arrival and are taken care of separately, unless the minor is over 16 years of age and the spouses already have a child together. In that case, they'll be taken care of together. That was about twenty-five couples. Under 16 years old, the file is automatically forwarded to the parquet. Mr Secretary of State, my questions are as follows. Firstly, what is the evolution of the number of couples one or both of whom are underage, arriving in our centers? How many cases are we talking about? My figures only run until mid-2016. How many were there in 2016 and 2017? What nationalities are we talking about most of the time? Secondly, the DVZ, CGVS and Fedasil still apply the same procedures and definitions, in the sense that couples of whom one of the two spouses is a minor and who do not have children are separated, even if the minor is over 16 years old? Thirdly, how will the services follow the advice of the court if a report of a child's marriage is made at the courthouse? How's this cooperation going?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u44	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, in 2017, eight couples with a minor applied for shelter. They were all of Syrian descent. Four out of eight refused the shelter and left for a private address. For unaccompanied minors who did not wish to receive care, the agency asked the Voogdij service to appoint a guardian immediately. The procedure used at the DVZ level: the persons concerned may not be registered as married couple if a minor is involved. Whether they have a joint child doesn't matter for registration. If the minor person is present without her own parents, this person should be reported as unaccompanied minor stranger, including when accompanied by her companion's parents. The court shall be called in if the minor is under 16 years of age. If the minor is over 16 years of age and there are signs of abuse, the court will also be called in. For example, in the case of a very large age difference, we will do so automatically. I have not yet communicated the general directives, this is the first time. Those are the instructions I gave after talking about it for a long time. After all, this is a very moral issue. It's not an easy matter. We have also looked at other countries, in the Netherlands and Germany there has been a lot of fuss about this. Not with us. We anticipated that. I've been talking about that for a long time. What are they doing with that? A 18-year-old married to a 17-year-old girl is something quite different than a 14-year-old girl married to a 34-year-old man. They sometimes get couples like that into the asylum centre. It's not always obvious. At the level of Fedasil's dispatching, the general directive is that persons who are not registered as couples by the Department of Foreign Affairs should be taken in different places. Exceptions are girls over 16 years of age with a child or pregnant, except in case of signs of abuse. So, under 16 years old: njet. More than 16 years old, if there is a child, for the sake of the child, it can be done together. In pregnancy, too, but if there are indications of abuse, then it is njet. The House of Representatives in the Netherlands held a very large parliamentary debate on this subject. I believe that even the law states that child marriage cannot be tolerated in any way in the asylum centres. Never. I respect that view. I spoke about this with my colleague, Klaas Dijkhoff, at the time. Now my Dutch colleague is Mark Harbers. I understand that. The identity debate is a very sensitive debate. You know that, don't you? As a matter of principle, we can never tolerate child marriages, but if a 17-year-old girl is married to a 18-year-old and they have a child together, do we separate them? There's got to be a line somewhere. Our line is: never under 16. Over the age of 16, if there are no indications of abuse and there is a child or pregnancy, they are registered together and in the same place in the best interests of the child and can therefore be together. However, it can be seen that, if this is refused, for example, five disappear. They'll be looking for private care with family or friends, so they can be together.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u45	Are there eight who are divorced, or are there eight who have been captured as a couple?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u46	Four out of eight refused shelter and left for a private address. I don't know the other four. I'll have to check.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u47	It's not clear to me if those eight couples are couples who got divorced?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u48	Eight married couples, of whom at least one is a minor, asked for shelter together. We then looked at the instructions. I don't know how it was distributed. I'm gonna have to get those numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u49	After all, we should know how many were allowed to stay together and how many were not allowed to stay together. That's important.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u50	I know, but I don't have it right now. In any case, to four out of eight we have clearly said njet, which have left. I'll see how many of those four people got shelter. I'm gonna let you know right away. Thirdly, following notification to the public prosecutor, the Agency has no other information available. As far as I'm aware, the parquet doesn't give any advice on this. The public prosecutor shall not inform third parties of the decision to prosecute before the court. However, the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless should not necessarily wait for the prosecution by the court or the conviction by the court. Indeed, the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless may proceed to exclusion on the basis of serious indications of a crime, even though the persons concerned have not yet been convicted of the crime. You know that, that's the law that was passed. It'll be passed on, too. The Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless sees in the file that it is a married couple in which one of the partners is 14 or 15. That is really being investigated by Mr Van den Bulck's services. The Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless shall deal with each person's asylum applications in an individual manner. This also applies to couples. For example, asylum applications from partners of child marriages are, by definition, dealt with separately or individually. In the course of the assessment, the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless shall examine first of all a well-founded fear of persecution or the real risk of serious damage on the return to the country of origin. In general, the marital situation is not relevant. This also applies when a child marriage was concluded. Serious indications of a crime committed prior to arrival in Belgium may lead to the exclusion of refugee status and subsidiary protection status. For example, the conclusion of a child marriage under certain conditions may lead to the exclusion of refugee status and subsidiary protection status. It is therefore possible for a couple to take two different decisions: for one person a decision to grant protection status and for the other a decision to exclude. That makes sense. If there's abuse, it'll be on one of the two sides. It'll be ruled out. That does not mean that it is often the younger women who do receive international protection. If there are indications of abuse in a man, he may not get it. We've been talking about this for a long time. We have talked about this here too, but I never wanted to give those instructions because it might lead to discussions. Anyway, this is the line I drew.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u51	I have indicated certain nuances now and also in my previous question. A 16 or 17-year-old girl is also underage. If she is married in Syria to a 19-year-old woman and she has done so out of love and conviction, I have no problem with that in itself, even though I would never welcome it here in Belgium. I don't think they're allowed to break up that couple. In such cultures one marries. With us, that would just be a couple. A 16-year-old girl who marries a 40-year-old man is definitely a problem. Some people may not even realize that this cannot or should not be done, but it is necessary to take action against it. You gave me numbers. You say eight in 2017. You'll get me another split. For 2016 I only have a figure until halfway that year. I asked what evolution there was. In 2016, there were five couples in the first half of the year. Have any couples joined in the second half of the year? I hope you will supplement that information further. I hope that you, together with the Minister of Justice, will look at how this problem is being dealt with further. You say that out of the eight couples, four couples refused shelter. They probably refused shelter because they would be separated. That's how I think it's gonna be. I still think there's a big problem. It's not because they're not taken care of that the child marriage isn't there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u52	This is passed to the parquet by default, but I don't have any information on what happens to it after that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u53	I think it is important that it is passed on, that it is taken into account. It is not because they are not being taken in a shelter that we must approve it. I don't approve. I think we share the same view in this regard. The question is how to ensure that the 16-year-old child who is married to a 40-year-old is removed as soon as possible. A trial like this takes months. Do you leave that child with that man for all these months? I don't think so. We have a responsibility to conduct this debate and to look at what is being done in other countries. It is a very complex dossier, it needs nuances, but we really need to deal with it. You are, of course, consulting with Minister Geens, with whom you have already worked well. I will question him about this and hope that you will give me the figures for the second half of 2016 and also clarify how many cases you have decided that the couples should be allowed to stay together in view of the small age difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u54	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, we can only rejoice in seeing the crisis of reception behind us. This means that reception services are no longer overwhelmed by the influx of asylum seekers, as was the case in the summer of 2015. However, the government's "plan for dismantling reception places" under the last budgetary control raises several questions. How will the people affected by the closure of the centres that host them today be distributed? Could you clarify the method that will be followed, especially for unaccompanied minors (MENA) and all those who would eventually be displaced in a language region different from the one that first received them? What arrangement did you have in place not to repeat the mistake you and your predecessor made in 2015, namely to dismantle the reception network at a time when massive population displacement following the intensification of the conflict in Syria was perfectly predictable? Does not the ongoing humanitarian disasters in Yemen and Ghouta in Syria lead you to be more cautious in this dismantling? How do you explain the closure of centres that sometimes reach 90% occupancy rates, such as in Saint-Ode? Do you measure the very strong symbolic impact of the closure of the "Visages du Monde" centre in Stockem, which was awarded by the European Red Cross for its successful integration and above all for the citizen participation set up around this centre in particular? Why do you choose to close centres that are currently under development, such as in Tournai, to redirect the people concerned to places that are potentially less well equipped? How will the dismissal of workers who are heavily involved in these centres be organised? Will an internal mobility plan in Fedasil or the structures subsidized by Fedasil be promoted?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u55	Mr Secretary of State, in the context of budgetary control, you announced that asylum reception would be further reduced to the level prior to the asylum crisis. You explained that nine collective centres should close down. It was supposed to be 2,800 places. 3 600 individual reception points in LOIs should also be removed. In addition, individual reception places are mainly reserved for nationalities with more than 80% chance of recognition after they have stayed in collective care for two months. Firstly, which centres will have to close down? What will happen to the staff who are currently working there? Secondly, how will the 3 600 places in the LOIs be completed? How and on the basis of which criteria will it be decided which places will close? Are you willing to listen to the suggestions of the municipalities, who have sometimes invested a lot of money and time in building quality care? Thirdly, do you provide for a buffer capacity to open up additional places in the event of a new crisis? Fourthly, will you consider keeping some of the LOI places that need to close still open, in order to address the major housing problems for recognised refugees, perhaps also in the context of possible initiatives to raise the number of resettlement? After all, these people all need a place. Fifthly, would you consider reducing the approval rate of 80%? In view of the fact that the Commissioner-General is lagging behind, many cases will be dealt with more quickly and more frequently within a two-month period. Finally, which vulnerable persons will be eligible for a place in the LOIs in future? What criteria are used? The reception in a LOI is better suited for the well-being of the person in question. Too fast a phasing-out in this area is therefore detrimental.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u56	Mr Secretary of State, the government has decided, within the framework of budgetary control, to further reduce the reception network for asylum seekers. That makes sense, because we are once again dealing with a so-called normal influx. The refugee crisis is largely behind us. The most important issue now is the completion of the files. In the long term, the aim would be to move towards a total reception capacity of 16 629 places, with 60% in collective large-scale reception and 40% individual reception places at LOIs. As the number of asylum applications has decreased, it is sensible and necessary to adapt the reception system and to continue the phasing-out process. However, I believe that it is important to keep the system sufficiently flexible to cope with any further increase. We must therefore provide sufficient buffering places. Firstly, as we agreed in the government agreement, individual reception is reserved for asylum seekers with a high risk of recognition and for vulnerable groups. The scheme will now be redesigned to expand that group. I welcome that. What criteria are currently being used to determine vulnerable groups? To what extent will the definition be amended so that we really absorb all vulnerable groups? It can be about people with disabilities, but also about Holebi's and single women with children. How do you see that? Secondly, what changes are you considering for the group with a high risk of recognition? Mr De Vriendt asked the same question. How will you focus on phasing out the local reception initiatives? What consultations do you plan in this context with the reception partners, with VVSG and the French-speaking counterpart? How will you do that? What additional measures will you take to encourage the municipalities to hopefully take their places of refuge on a voluntary basis? The first phase therefore involves a voluntary reduction in the number of LOI places. What happens if that is not enough? Then how will you reduce it further? Will you then proceed to some kind of compulsory phasing-out of the LOI shelters? How will you do that? Will you take into account a spread across the country? In addition, there is also a need to reduce the collective reception facilities. However, there is a very large difference in cost in collective reception places. Some shelters cost 40 euros a day, no small amount of money, while others cost up to double the cost. So the prices are very different. Because it is most convenient or practical, you would like to cut down as the covenants come to an end. Where a covenant with a partner ends, you would like to close the shelter, even though these partners offer quality care at a price that is much lower than some other partners with whom the covenant is still running. How do you explain the huge differences in the cost of accommodation in different centres depending on the partner? Is it true that you want to reduce the shelters according to the end of the covenant? Is the possibility of getting rid of expensive reception structures more quickly in favour of the cheaper? In the short term, it will obviously be easier to close down the centres with which the covenant expires, but in the long term it will be more expensive, as centres will be kept open to double charges. Finally, is sufficient buffering provided? How many are there? How exactly do you deal with this, since it is not about physical buffering sites? Which partners do you want to work with for the buffer sites?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u57	Mr President, my question No 25146 becomes moot. Secretary of State, since the migration crisis in Belgium in the summer of 2015, Tournai has been welcoming refugee candidates to the Saint John barracks. Currently, 340 migrants are housed there pending a decision by the Foreign Office. A huge boost of solidarity was created in Tournai through the involvement of citizens and associations. In addition, the Red Cross carries out exceptional work there. In addition, investments have been made to ensure that the centre is up to standards in order to accommodate migrants in the best possible way. On Friday, March 23, 2018, the government approved a new phase of dismantling asylum places. The number of reception places would increase from 23,815 to 16,629. More specifically, you have announced the closure of 2,854 collective places, including those currently offered by the centre of Tournai. This decision falls without a dialogue between the government and the leadership of the Red Cross in Tournai. The closure of the centre has consequences on two aspects. First, it will have an impact on the refugee journey. Residents will have to join other reception facilities in Belgium, which are not yet defined. I had already said it and I will continue to say it: regrouping refugees in large structures does not ensure that their integration journey starts on a good basis. In addition, the move to another city will break links between refugees and the population and disrupt the education of refugee children attending the schools in Tournai. Secondly, this announcement will result in a significant loss of employment in the coming months. For the centre of Tournai, 44 people employed by the Red Cross risk losing their jobs abruptly. Staff are doing a truly remarkable job that is praised by residents. And overnight, without prior consultation, you put an end to their contract. Secretary of State, what amount has been invested by the Federal and Red Cross in the Saint John Centre since summer 2015? Do you confirm that the centre of Tournai will close its doors? If so, when is this planned? To which centre(s) will refugees be directed? How are you going to ensure that the schooling of refugee children is not disrupted? What about the staff? Can you give me information about their future within the centre?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u58	Mr President, allow me to give more accurate figures. Most reception places cost about 38 euros a day. However, the difference is considerable. Some places do it for less than 30 euros and others for more than 150 euros. For the same shelter, it sometimes costs five times as much. How can we account for these large differences in the Fedasil reception network itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u59	I've never heard of 150 euros. These may be places for asylum seekers who are sick, for people with amputated legs who need special treatment. Medical places are very expensive. I still think you should be careful to throw everything into a pile.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u60	Take a look at it yourself afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u61	I'll definitely look into it, but 150 euros? That's the first time I've heard that. We'll see. First of all, I would like to emphasise that I am grateful to all the partners, employees and volunteers for the services they have done. The efforts made and the exemplary work done by all the staff of the reception centres and local reception initiatives (ILA) to deal with the crisis we have experienced should be commended. That said, from the outset, the additional capacity put in place was well regarded as temporary. The notification in the budgetary control of March 2018 was very clear. I quote: "The Secretary of State, responsible for Asylum and Migration, is given the task of further dismantling the reception network. The following general principles shall be taken into account. Firstly, persons of a nationality for which the recognition rate is at least 80%, pass from collective reception to individual reception after 2 months of stay in the care. Secondly, the ratio between collective and individual reception is based on the ratio of 60-40. Thirdly, the application of the concept of vulnerable people will be further elaborated in detail by Fedasil. For 2018, this means a phasing-out of 2 854 collective sites by closing the 9 remaining centres opened during the asylum crisis, and the phasing-out of 3 600 individual places in the LOIs at the OMCWs. The 9 remaining emergency shelters will therefore be closed again. I never said anything else. Nor has the Prime Minister ever communicated otherwise, and fellow Deputy Prime Ministers have always communicated very clearly that the emergency shelters are closing. Emergency shelters served to relieve the distress, as the word says. They close again when the need is no longer there, which makes sense to me. The dismantling of collective sites in 2018 refers to the 9 remaining emergency shelters that were opened during the crisis. These are shelters of the French-speaking Croix Rouge in Arlon, 400 places, in Tournai, 400 places, in Namur, 300 places, in Saint-Ode, 250 places, and in Vielsalm, 80 places. Furthermore, it concerns the reception centres of Red Cross Flanders in Houthalen-Helchteren, 700 places, and in Sint-Niklaas Westakkers 300 places. In addition, it is a shelter of Samusocial in Lower-over-Heembeek, 250 places, and a shelter of Caritas in Scherpenheuvel, 174 places. As with any closure, a phased reduction schedule will be drawn up in consultation with the host operators concerned. It includes, as a first step, the cessation of the designation of first arrivals to the reception structure, followed by the natural departure of the residents, for example by obtaining a residence permit or by their transfer to another reception structure. As a result, residents who will still be eligible for material assistance will move to another reception facility. Particular attention will be paid to minors attending school, taking into account their language regime. The occupancy rate of a reception centre at a given time is not relevant to the needs assessment. This is in fact the overall occupancy rate of the reception network - which now stands at just 73% - and the number of people welcomed that should be considered. The number of occupants of the reception network has decreased in one year by 4,600 and 14,400 in two years. In the phase-out of the LOIs, priority will be given to places that are voluntarily cancelled by the LOIs. Only if it is found that insufficient places can be completed on the basis of voluntary closure will there be an active phasing-out of sites. The selection by the agency of LOI places to be closed will be based on geographical distribution, the flexibility offered by LOIs in their place configuration, the willingness to offer places to applicants with specific needs and to play a leading role in the integration of recognised refugees. An online tool that will pulse on this will soon be opened up to all OCMWs. On 28 March 2018, my cabinet and Minister Ducarme jointly received the three OCMW domes to inform them about the government's decision. Together with Minister Ducarme I will direct a letter to the OCMW's to inform them more about this. The Agency will also organise information sessions for OCMW presidents and secretaries in each province at the end of May, beginning of June. The Agency shall aim for sufficient buffering places to be able to cope flexibly with fluctuations in influx. Priority shall be given to buffering of all reception partners in the collective centres. Currently, there are a large number of unoccupied places in the reception network. In addition, there are conversations with the Defense Department to provide buffer spaces in certain barracks. Mr Delannois, from 2015 to 2017 included, the cost of the Tournai reception centre was about 14 million euros. The Tournai reception centre is indeed one of the nine reception centres concerned by the closure decision. The closure schedule is being prepared with the Red Cross. As for residents of the reception centre, as with any closure, a gradual reduction schedule will be established. This planning involves, as a first step, stopping the designation of first arrivals to the reception structure, then, in a second step, the natural departure of the welcomed residents and finally, the organization of their transfer to another reception centre. As a result, refugees who will still be eligible for material assistance will be accommodated in another reception facility. Particular attention will be paid to minors attending school, particularly taking into account their language regime. I have already stressed this on several occasions: we must welcome the efforts made and the exemplary work carried out by all the employees of the reception to deal with the crisis that we have experienced. The management of the staff of the reception centres concerned and the search for possible solutions for the relocation of the persons concerned, however, is the responsibility of the partner operators and not of Fedasil. The phasing-out plan is therefore maintained. When this is right, we will look at it. We certainly need to pay attention to the schoolchildren as well. It is also the European Commission's call for maximum attention to be paid to the fact that schoolchildren are not moved during the school year. We must therefore examine whether we may close the sites at the end of August because of a transfer during the great holiday. We are now working on a system of this kind. We have called on the LOIs to close as many places as possible voluntarily. There will be more information. I am working on this with Mr Ducarme. After all, I am not solely responsible for this matter. Emergency shelters are closing again. I've had a lot of protests and signatures at the opening of centers. Now I get a lot of signatures on the closure of centers. Things go on and on and on and on and on every day. It is true that there are differences in cost. Mrs Lanjri, the expensive places are in the OOCs or orientation and reception centres for unaccompanied minors. A lot of care is needed there, too. I assume things are going well there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u62	I understand there could be an objective reason for the higher cost.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u63	The costs do indeed rise due to very close guidance around the clock. For example, there is a permanent psychologist present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u64	I understand. It is, however, about other places of refuge.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u65	There are no standard reception centres with reception points of 150 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u66	There are huge price differences.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u67	If you can prove that, you'd better give me the evidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u68	There are huge price differences.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u69	There are price differences. That's right. We have talked about this many times. It is also true that a LOI is cheaper than a collective center. However, you should also bear in mind that there is almost no return from a LOI.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u70	This is because it mainly includes those who have a high risk of recognition. So that makes sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u71	Could you hold off on your reply for a moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u72	Mr President, may I speak for a moment? That is why we have just decided to apply the new reception model. Now, indeed, asylum seekers are entering the LOIs with a greater chance of recognition. For me, it's gonna stop there, too. That is, of course, the whole debate. The experience of the past, when that did not happen, teaches us that if we do not, the return, certainly the voluntary return, from a LOI is almost zero. From a LOI there is almost no return. Given the long-term cost of society, I am not at all convinced that this system would be cheaper. We held the debate on this during the government negotiations for days. We will not do that all over again. Mrs Lanjri, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that we have reached a compromise in the government. As always, I will stick to it very closely when it is implemented. I have done the same in the context of building up the crisis. At that time, I did so in a Community-wide manner, including with regard to the administrations. That the staff is now disappointed, I can understand. However, I have never explained anything other than that the phasing-out would take place. In a first phase we closed down dozens of centres, including a center in Lubbeek. The staff in Lubbeek I visited as mayor. That is also my job as Secretary of State. I explained to the staff that I was sorry that 27 employees, including social assistants, lost their jobs. They responded by saying that they knew what they were getting into and that they were already happy with that first work experience. They would apply, as there is work in the social sector for social assistants. I myself have also started my role as Secretary of State in the philosophy that I will not perform that function for the rest of my life. It's temporary. The same applies to those centres. The staff therefore did not feel cheated by the government. A closure is of course not good news, but the staff were aware of this possibility. This was also clearly communicated by Fedasil and the Prime Minister. We have always maintained correct contact with the mayors. The image as if the closures would be forced up without any form of consultation, is not correct. They're emergency shelters, they're closing again. I can't keep thousands of places open. In this context, I refer to an article in De Tijd, which describes that thousands of places are empty, while I ask for extra budget for Fedasil, but perhaps I should close the empty places first. Well, that's what I'm doing now. At first, an agreement was difficult, given the key. We are actually trying to interpret the coalition agreement by excluding certain places. We are also in contact with the local authorities, which we are very grateful for what they have done. It is not clear, moreover, just before the municipal elections, to announce a closure. However, the government has made decisions in this respect. I fully support that compromise, and I will do it very correctly. Yesterday, fifteen thousand signatures were delivered to my cabinet. I understand that, but I will implement that decision, as it is a correct decision. If we do not close down, the system will become priceless, as everyone knows.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u73	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to make a brief comment on the substance. You said you weren't going to keep "hundreds of thousands of seats." I would point out to you that we never exceeded more than 25,000 seats. So we're not talking about hundreds of thousands of seats.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u74	I was talking about hundreds or thousands of places, not hundreds of thousands.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u75	It was then a translation problem. Excuse me. Good management would like you to close down the less well-equipped premises first and keep those who have benefited from investments. I understood that, for Tournai, it was about 14 million euros invested. It would be interesting if this amount were to be sustained. That they were used to fund a reception centre that was closed a few months later is a bit of a shame. Then there was an extraordinary and unexpected – for you as for me – local citizen movement in places that are not used to receiving asylum seekers. I am thinking of Stockem, Tournai, Belgrade (in the Namibian region). Citizens have engaged in an integration movement of people fleeing war or various abuses. With a view to reducing the number of places, it seems interesting to me to maintain the places of reception where this citizens' initiative has developed. Beyond the government's fiscal investment, there has been a citizen investment, which remains the best way to eventually integrate these people into predominantly rural areas where such an initiative was not expected to emerge. Finally, you did not answer my question about how your services, as well as subsidized structures such as the Red Cross, would guide and help staff find work in an area in need. I should like to recall that the persons concerned were trained and paid directly by the State. I warned you, as was the time of the summer 2015 crisis. I am used to serving on commissions such as Defence or External Relations, where the world situation is analysed. Although there is an agreement with Turkey, the humanitarian situation is no better than in 2015. I hope, therefore, that I will not have to remind you of what I have just told you on the day that we will be facing the same crisis as the one that resulted from the events in Syria in 2015. The maintenance of a well-equipped reception network, with trained and especially motivated personnel, is the best response to a possible future humanitarian disaster. Indeed, events are happening in the world, which unfortunately do not suggest that this humanitarian crisis will stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u76	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, it is a little unfortunate that you are putting aside our suggestions and that you do not want to take them with you. For us it is no problem to close places if there are places too many. Only three elements must be taken into account. Firstly, a buffer, my colleague Hellings pointed out, the tide can turn quickly. Secondly, other needs for recognised refugees, resettlement. At least if we want to make a great effort there, then those people need homes. Thirdly, individual care is better than collective care, is more qualitative, more comfortable, makes people more comfortable. An asylum seeker in the procedure has the right to await the outcome of the asylum procedure in decent circumstances. We therefore regret a great deal of the closure of LOIs. That is why we have given you the suggestion that perhaps we should drop to 50% chance of recognition. Then, on average, an asylum seeker, depending on his nationality, has one in two chances of being recognised. This seems to me to be a fair basis for an individual accommodation in a LOI, all the more so because LOIs are cheaper than those collective reception places. As has been said, it is a pity that you do not want to include all these reservations in the policy you are pursuing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u77	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I know that these decisions have been negotiated in the government for a long time. We are satisfied that we have also fought for the fact that the number of LOI places will not be reduced too sharply. This is currently set at a ratio of 40/60, which is about the ratio currently in practice. We're okay with that. We also want to put an effective emphasis on the importance of LOIs, not only because it is often cheaper, but also because it has a wider support base. It is better to accommodate people in small-scale reception initiatives than in centres, in Houthalen, Sijsele or anywhere else, where 500 refugees are received in one large centre, in a municipality of 5 000 inhabitants, because that is far too much. That is also important for the support. We agreed in the government agreement that it should be mainly about people with a high degree of recognition. I am pleased that the percentage set for this is being reduced. However, I do not think that you have answered in sufficient detail about these changes to the criteria. You're probably still working it out with Fedasil. I'll come back to it later. Mr De Vriendt said that there are no buffer points. Of course, that's not right. The government has decided that there will also be buffer points, but the concept is a bit different than it used to be. Agreements will be concluded with partners. They must be able to create places immediately in the event of a crisis, without us having to create and leave all these places empty. Of course, I have no problem with the fact that there are sometimes price differences, if they can be justified. A place for an unaccompanied minor or a person with a severe disability will, of course, require more financial framework than a place for an ordinary refugee who does not have specific needs. I am particularly concerned that there are still huge price differences in the reception of Fedasil, with regard to the reception points for 'ordinary' asylum seekers. I would ask you to take a look at that and take the differences out of it as much as possible. You may never be able to completely eliminate it, but now the gap is enormous. I therefore propose closing down the most expensive shelters. We must go for quality at a good price, but it does not have to be double or even more. Look at that again with your records. I believe that we can certainly save on this in the long term. As far as the LOIs are concerned, you always say that the return from there is very difficult. Five years ago, however, the situation was different than it is now. In this legislature, it had already been said by the government that the LOI places mainly went to people with a high degree of recognition. So it is also logical that fewer people leave there. 80 to 90% of them are recognised. So let us also be correct in this, including in communication, and say why fewer people leave the LOIs. That is pure and only because almost all people are recognised in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u78	Mr President, first of all, I would like to say that I find myself in the last comments made by my colleague in favour of small structures. Minister, I have not changed my mind since 2015. I remain convinced that putting 700 people in a jar is not necessarily the best solution to promote integration. I keep thinking that. In Tournai, you have noted it and others have also noted it, we have had an extraordinary chance that the associative world has played a remarkable role, which unfortunately did not prevent some sleep merchants from becoming sugary in the passage. To my question as to what became of the migrants when they had to leave the barracks in Tournai, I was always overwhelmed by the response made to me by the Office of Foreigners, which said to me: "You know, Mr. Delannois, they will anyway return to the big cities, such as Brussels or Antwerp." That's all I want to fight against. That is to promote communityism and, in my view, that is what should be avoided. In order to promote integration, it seems to me that we must give ourselves the means. You're still talking about 14 million that have been invested, and maybe they'll have been invested for nothing. Fostering integration avoids a lot of drama. Just before the migration crisis, your federal government had closed in Tournai the local reception initiatives which, in this city at least, allowed this integration work. I will always find it very difficult to accept this closure, even if you are not responsible for it. If we wanted to create the conditions for the explosion, we would not do otherwise, by concentrating 700 people in a jar and closing this infrastructure overnight. What I had predicted is more or less accomplished: we end up with migrants who are a bit debunked. You reassure me a little bit because special attention will be paid to minors attending school, but it is certainly difficult too. As for the workers, they find themselves on the tile. If these tragedies still occur in the future, it may be necessary to review how to manage this, perhaps at the beginning of each municipality. I am convinced that while the numbers are much smaller in each municipality, integration is best achieved and easier. In my entity, there are small villages. I'm sure if we set up one or two families in a village, integration will be fine. This will go with the school, etc. If one arrives overnight with too many numbers, that is not the case. We have enough entities in Belgium to try to focus on this way of doing things. Otherwise, in my opinion, the conditions of communalism are created. I am not interested in being able to designate, in Tournai, the Jewish quarter, the Arab quarter, the neighbourhood of some Tournaisians. No, I think integration is different. But I recognize that this is not an easy subject to address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u79	Mr President, Minister, this question may be in line with the previous question on the LOIs' problems. I've written my question rather thoroughly. We have asked a similar question to your colleague, the Minister for Education of the Flemish Community. This question concerns the programme of resettlement or resettlement. Since 2013, there has been a formal commitment to receiving vulnerable refugees every year. For the period 2013-2017 it is about 2 400 refugees. Resettlement is rising from 100 refugees in 2013 to around 1 300 in 2017. Over 200 resettlements have been recorded this year. For these refugees a first reception is provided for four to six weeks. Then they're led to a LOI. This first reception is mainly intended to put the statutory and administrative files in order, to carry out medical screening and to provide a very short basic education on the society in which they end up. You've identified four federal shelters throughout the country. In Flanders it is in my city, Sint-Truiden, and in Kapellen. I have talked about this with the fellow mayor and the problem is the same. The refugees from resettlement are by definition newcomers who speak in a different language. Among them there are many children and young people. For example, in the reception centre in Sint-Truiden, a new group of 25 to 30 kindergarten children, children and young people are counted for each period of first care. The necessary steps will be taken to ensure that they go to school during the short period of their stopover in a reception centre. Our schools are doing the best they can. This is done through a local consultation platform for equal educational opportunities. However, we must have the courage to recognise that it really does not run smoothly. It is not evident to immediately integrate a five-year-old into a classroom for two to three weeks. Besides, after a few weeks, that toddler is gone and a new one is coming. I have had talks with a number of teachers who are doing their utmost, but who are wondering if it is necessary. It's not about those kids not being welcome. There is already a huge language problem to begin with, because of course these children do not know our language, which means that an interpreter must be involved. Some schools have shown their willingness to cooperate, but that is a bit of a fuss. I wonder if we should do that to kids in those first two or three weeks? Those first two or three weeks shall be completed with, inter alia, a medical screening, the preparation of the file and a referral to a LOI. Mr Secretary of State, this is a relatively recent and limited project. You know the asylum center in Saint-Truiden very well. I think I can say that the operation is very good and that it is well managed. This does not mean that there should be no more local initiatives. However, the concrete experience so far shows that it is not so favourable. This also applies to the consideration of costs and benefits, which has apparently not been addressed in the report of OKAN's research or in the vision document of Vluchtelingwerk Vlaanderen on educational opportunities for refugees. However, it is shown that in the context of resettlement, direct access to the LOIs is much more efficient, especially for the children concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u80	Mrs. Heeren, can you answer your questions? You've given a very long introduction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u81	Mr President, I would like to make a point of referring to my question. It is the first or second oral question I put to the Secretary of State. It is about a local and recent story, so I want to make sure that this question is answered and I also hope for a detailed answer. After all, it is about young children. Mr Secretary of State, are you in contact with the regional education ministers to answer this problem? It is of course easy to impose what needs to be done, but I would like to invite you to visit the field of work, those classes. Are you aware of this problem? The asylum issue is very broad, but there are specific educational problems in the first two to four weeks. It is not six months or a full year, but the first few weeks for children or young people in the resettlement project. How do you experience it yourself? I hope you have already received feedback from the four centres. Has there been any consultation with your Flemish and Walloon colleague? Everyone tells me that it would be much better to transfer these children immediately to the place where they can build a home. It is often, according to my information, about children who are likely to have a new opportunity here for the rest of their lives with their families. It is therefore better for them to go to the school where they can develop the rest of their school career. That does not mean that Saint-Truiden and the Swedish schools do not accept their responsibilities. Mr President, we have had an asylum centre on our territory for more than 15 years, so that on average between 350 and 400 asylum seekers stay in our city every day. I would like to add that to my speech. I have great admiration for the teachers involved, who obviously need additional training and support. They do what they need to do, they help themselves. However, they often do not speak Arabic. Are you prepared to examine the problems if you state that there is no need to change their sleeves, that they will have to swallow them and that they will have to organise themselves in this area? In that case, is there any possibility that these schools will at least receive additional support, which I do not mean making an interpreter available for one or two hours a day, which they no longer see for the rest of the day? Are you prepared to provide a solution to the practical problems, such as transport and translation? Minister, I am sure that you are listening to the problem, also because I know that you know very well the asylum centre itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u82	Mr President, Mrs Heeren, first of all I would like to say that I am surprised that you are putting a parliamentary question to Mrs Crevits and that you are now putting it to me, without adapting a letter to your question. That's weird. Most of your questions therefore do not fall within my competence or even within the competence of this Parliament. It is true that four Fedasil centres specialise in the resettlement of asylum seekers, namely the Kapellen, Saint-Truiden, Florennes and Pondrôme centres. These centres receive the groups for a period of four to seven weeks and have developed a tailor-made short stay reception programme in a collective reception centre. During this period the administration is put in order, a medical and social intake is carried out, the specific needs are considered and the preparation for integration is started, as they are people who are recognised refugees and are allowed to stay in Belgium. This short period in collective centres is necessary in order to guide these people's follow-up and better identify their needs. I am therefore not in favour of direct allocation to local reception initiatives. Indeed, as a teacher of training, I think it is very important that the children of this target group should attend school as soon as possible, despite the short stay in the centre. The organisation of education for the children of this target group requires greater flexibility and more intensive work. In the center of Sint-Truiden the project World Class was developed at the school Sint-Rita, you know that perhaps much better than I, with the support of AgODi, since the primary school Klavertje Five, where the re-established students were previously trained, no longer had the capacity to register these students. Specific resources were allocated to a teacher, the transport of the re-established pupils by Fedasil and an interpreter. In the other centres there are no specific problems in relation to education for the group re-established. The past has shown that the cooperation between Minister Crevits and I is going very well. In these cases, too, there is a close follow-up on both sides. On 16 March, our administrations organized another exchange moment between Opvang en Onderwijs where this matter was also discussed. Mr President, I was here at 9:55 a.m. We are on item 11. We're almost two hours away. I answered the previous question about the phasing-out plan a little more extensively, because it is of course very topical and because there is some social unrest there. However, I try to confine myself to my answers. Certain rules are also provided for in the Rules of Procedure. I hope I can finish the agenda, but I have an appointment at 12:30. So I have to leave here at 12:15. I would therefore ask you to look at the speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u83	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I am pleased that there is good contact, but I do not think I was clear in my explanation. The problem is this. Those kids are assigned for three to four weeks, that's all it is. They have to go to school and then move again. Isn't it better that these kids are assigned to a center where they can stay? I don't think children should move to another school after three weeks. That's the problem. Mr Secretary of State, I do know Saint Rita very well. There's a lot of good will out there, believe me. It is the stories of the teachers themselves and of the local educational platform, which came to me as mayor. I have not mentioned many problems in recent years, but this is something that comes from the bottom up. I ask to see to what extent the children can be assigned to the place where they start their education career, without having to move again after three weeks. The resettlement programme is probably well-intentioned, but it is not perceived as positive in the field of work. There are a lot of problems in the workplace. It's the last question and I don't think I've spoken for more than seven minutes. I am sorry that this is being swept off the table and that I am being silenced.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u84	I don't think anyone's getting shut up here, and I haven't wiped anything off the table either. The children are allocated in the context of resettlement. You ask whether they can not be assigned immediately to a centre where they stay a little longer. First of all, they won't be in those centers for long...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u85	The school! A center close to the school.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u86	I got it. First of all, they are recognized very quickly. Those files have been in the UNHCR for months. We had a question about that before. They're already with us, so it's very fast. If they're recognized, they're gonna have to get out of those centers, too. Those kids are in care for a short time anyway, whether it's a permanent center or not. So we decided to take them for a few weeks, to follow them well and do some medical and psychological screenings. So they are not immediately assigned to a LOI, but go there fairly quickly. This is not easy, but the whole resettlement story is partly new and we need to deal with a number of things. I'll discuss this with the services. I'm not wiping anything off the table here. Soon I will come to Sint-Truiden and I will gladly come to the center again. On that visit I will certainly speak with the teachers, that is not a problem for me. I'm not shutting anybody up here, that's absolutely not the case. It is a coincidence that I am asking the President to apply the Rules of Procedure: I have been giving answers to 11 questions for two hours. That's a long time, I think. Minister Jambon sometimes answers 40 questions at two o'clock.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u87	Just to clarify, Mrs. Heeren. The Rules of Procedure prescribe that questions and answers must be answered within five minutes and that a reply of two minutes can follow. If you say you've spoken for seven minutes, that was actually too much. Anyway, we are clement, also in this committee, as you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u88	Mr President, the Secretary of State, at the beginning of the year, concluded the seventh action "Gaudi". On that occasion, you announced that 215 people in an illegal situation had been arrested. Subsequently, 128 of them were placed in closed centres with a view to their expulsion, while 87 were incarcerated. I would like to express my support for this action. It is involved in the fight against abuse and aims to ensure the maximum safety of the population. Beyond the shooting and shoplifting that this operation is aimed at in the first place, it is also disturbances to public order such as drug trafficking, concealment or assault that are thus fought. I therefore support you and hope that such actions will continue to be carried out. Mr Secretary of State, can you take stock of all these "Gaudi" actions since they were carried out? How many people were arrested in total? Of these, how many were placed in prison and how many were expelled? What are the most represented nationalities? In general, are you satisfied with these results? Lastly, was there any plans to carry out an eighth such operation? If so, will the resources made available be the same or, if necessary, strengthened?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for an overview of the results of the various Gaudi actions, I refer to the answers to the written questions on this subject. In the context of an oral question, it is not possible to extend the statistical data. However, I can give you some general results. During the various "Gaudi" operations, a total of 1,183 illegal offenders were detained, mostly in closed centres. Only a small number of them were in prison. Persons who have been imprisoned will be removed at the end of their sentence. All these persons are subject to a ban on entry and may no longer return to the Schengen area for a certain period of time, due to the nature of the offences committed against the public order of the country and/or the prison sentences incurred. The entry ban depends on the severity of the sentence. The prohibition of entry into Schengen areas depends on the seriousness of the matter. Since seven "Gaudi" actions have already been done, you can assume that I am satisfied with the result. Otherwise, such a commitment by the police and the Office of Foreigners would not be required every time. These operations will therefore be continued. The eighth and ninth "Gaudi" operations are planned for the same period as last year. Integrated cooperation between the police and the Office of Foreigners will continue. In the big cities, I agree with you, this small crime must be fought energetically and effectively, and that is what we are doing. The self-employed in the cities are very happy with this action. Such small crimes are not always prosecuted by the prosecution. The public prosecutor's office is not pursuing it, but the repatriation of people is a more fundamental solution, as they are no longer in Europe. I can simply say that there are many positive actions of self-employed people in the big cities during the winter holidays and during the period of sales in summer, in collaboration with the police and the Office of Foreigners. It works very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u90	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I believe that carrying out this type of operation makes it possible to "separate the right grain from the tare", in the sense that we have a duty to welcome refugees but not illegals who, in addition, commit misdemeanours. This, the population can no longer bear it. Previously, they were allowed to do and put all of them in the same bag, namely, the real refugees and the illegals committing misdemeanours. I therefore believe that this type of operation is positive and allows the population to be opened up to the real refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u91	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, this question concerns the announced closure of the Red Cross Refugee Reception Centre in Namur. You have discussed this with various colleagues earlier in this committee. You recently announced your willingness to reduce the reception for asylum seekers from 23,815 to 16,629 places and to close various reception centres that had been opened to meet real reception needs. I share the questions of my colleagues, particularly Mr Benoit Hellings and Mr Wouter De Vriendt, about this decision and its suddenness. From an economic point of view, should we not unfortunately reopen seats a little later and reorganise everything? From a humanitarian point of view, in relation to certain specific situations. From a citizen's point of view too, when it comes to centres such as Stockem or, more particularly, Belgrade, which have found their place in the social and human environment. It is about the latter that I would like to question you. I would remind you that as soon as this centre was opened, citizens of the Republic of Namibia have mobilized to ensure a high-quality reception for refugees. From the first day, they were there to welcome them. And this mobilization continued, with regular meetings between Namurians and Namurians and refugees, with the integration of refugees into the social, cultural and even professional life of the city of Namur. Many training courses have been conducted in training organizations and schools in Namibia. The way in which this cohabitation is organized can be described as quite remarkable and exemplary. I am aware, and you are aware of it like me, that in some places it is difficult. This has happened in an extraordinary way, as we wish both for the local communities and for those who have had to leave their country under the pressure of war or various forms of violence. It is for this reason that the mobilization was very strong, for the first time, when the Defence announced its willingness to sell the Belgrade estate on which the center is located and, a second time, rather quickly after, when you announced your plan to close reception centres including the one in Namur. Many Namurians and many Namurians denounced this decision by demonstrations or yesterday, giving you a petition. The 9,383 signatories regret the closure, its abrupt character and the impact on the residents of the centre, who were already particularly upset and who had found in Namur some stability and, for some, a course of training, not to mention the economic and employment impact. Mr Secretary of State, on the basis of what criteria has the decision to close the reception centre been taken? What prior consultation has taken place with the heads of the centres and the workers? What about the one in Belgrade, which responds to a humanitarian need and is particularly well integrated into local social life and accepted by the people of Namibia? In your overall policy, should we not favour centres, such as the one in Belgrade, located close to service centres and school centres, promoting mutual integration? How will you take into account the petition you received this Monday from the residents, workers and citizens of the support group? Are you considering going back to the option that is yours to close one or the other center, including Namur's? If this is not the case, at what exact date will this centre be closed? Will you allow children, young people and young people who are trained in a school in Namur to complete their school year and attend classes until June? Where appropriate, to which centres will the residents of the centre be redirected? How many jobs will be eliminated in Belgrade? What support will be offered to workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u92	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, you are the president for now!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u93	You're delighted; I'm sure you are.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u94	I'm incredibly glad. Mr Gilkinet, I do not understand that the secretariat has not attached this issue to the others. I've already answered all the questions. The only thing I can add is that the number of FTEs is 35 at the Namur Visitor Centre. The Red Cross is responsible for finding possible solutions to the reclassification of staff affected by the impact. I repeat that I answered all the other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u95	Secretary of State, I was fortunately present when you responded to my colleagues. As I have told you, I share their overall analysis of the situation. It is true that, technically, we could have reached the questions. The fact that they are disjointed allowed me to ask you specifically about the centre of Belgrade, but also to broaden the perspective a little by highlighting, in relation to your future policy, the fact that sometimes it can happen more than correctly and be a mutual enrichment than to host refugee candidate families in its territory. This is what happened in Namur, with extraordinary moments that were experienced by the welcomed and the welcoming with the characteristic, no doubt, of being close to an urban centre and its services, even though the reception had to be improvised on a former military barracks. Clearly, the centre of Belgrade will be closed. We can hope that it will not reopen, which would mean that the world is a little more at peace. If centres were to be reopened tomorrow, I hope that the lessons learned from this experience will be learned and that more will be done in consultation with welcoming people, organizations such as the Red Cross, and those who are welcomed. Thus, by welcoming those fleeing war and violence, we will be able to create a somewhat better world.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u96	Secretary of State, my question is a terrible one, since yesterday we learned that a special envoy from the New York Times had found seven Sudanese migrants expelled. Four of them reported that they had been arrested and then tortured there. A political opponent from Darfur was reportedly electrocuted, beaten and beaten with metal pipes for 10 days. All of this obviously requires verification. This also shows the value of implementing a procedure since the so-called "Sudan" case here and of ensuring that anyone in the closed centre is heard by a return agent on the risks involved in the case of expulsion on the basis of a questionnaire called "right to be heard". It is in fact a question of completing a written questionnaire which is then forwarded to the Office of Foreigners. The Office shall then assess, on the basis of the replies provided, whether there is a risk of a violation of Articles 3 and 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. In the event that the risk is proven and the person accepts the procedure and cooperates, an application for asylum is then made. On the other hand, if the person does not cooperate and does not wish to apply for asylum and the Aliens Office considers that there may be a risk of a violation of Articles 3 and 8, then an "implicit asylum application" is registered. The consequence of the submission of such an application is the notification of a retention decision known as Annex 39a, which has the effect, inter alia, of extending the legal period of detention. Mr Secretary of State, has the procedure I have just described been adopted to last or is it still at this stage a simple pilot project? Are all prisoners in closed centres affected by the procedure in question? Is the staff of the closed centre trained to use the "right to be heard" questionnaire? Is this audition done with an interpreter? Is the questionnaire completed on the first day of detention? Does the inmate receive a copy of the completed questionnaire? Could counsel be present while the questionnaire is being completed? Have there been any specific instructions and if so, what are they? What follow-up will you give to the judgment of 22 March 2018 of the Conseil du Litigieux des Étrangers and the judgment of 8 February 2018 of the Conseil d'État? Are you aware that this procedure considerably prolongs detention periods when an implicit application for asylum is made, while the person has been in detention for sometimes several weeks? Does the CGRA agree with this new practice of implicit requests? In the case of an implicit application, does the Foreign Office verify the presence of a previous asylum application with the EURODAC data bank intended, in principle, for "real" asylum seekers? Will this implicit asylum application be counted as an asylum application listed in EURODAC? In the event of an implicit request, is the detainee informed whether or not he falls under the Dublin Regulation? In the case where the detainee falls under Annex 13sepies and subsequently according to the questionnaire, the Office of Foreigners considers that he is not in danger, why does he notify him of a new Annex 13sepies and 13sexies, resulting in a further extension of the period of detention? Why notify a sexie, in other words, a ban on entry? Is this new practice the subject of a circular or order? Will it apply in other EU states? If so, which ones? Does this procedure, in your opinion, comply with the general principles of the Procedures Directive and the Royal Decree of 11 July 2003 laying down the procedure before the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons and its functioning?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u97	I'll go with my question. I'm not going to go back to the background and the investigation appeared yesterday. Mr. Hellings has already done it. We will recall the assessment of the CGRA report on the question of acts of torture against those returned: "We have no proof that this has happened, but we also have no evidence to the contrary"; this is in a few words the summary of this report. This New York Times investigation revives the case in which the Belgian government is seriously responsible. Therefore, has there been an assessment – I agree with Mr Hellings, without going into all the details of his question – of this procedure since the CGRA investigation? On the other hand, following the developments which seem to confirm that torture has taken place, which, I would remind you, have not been denied by the CGRA report, do you intend to reconsider your position on the removal of Sudanese nationals in the light of these new elements?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u98	The article in The New York Times again talks about testimonials, but does not provide evidence. As the CGRA indicates in the current report to which you refer, there is no general problem with the return to Sudan and the risk of a violation of Article 3 of the ECHR is examined on a case-by-case basis. Mr Hellings, this is not a pilot project, but a follow-up to the recommendation contained in the report of the Committee of Inquiry of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons following the testimony of Sudanese who were allegedly tortured, namely the request for a more in-depth examination of Article 3 and some recent judgments of the CEC (Conseil du Litigieux des Étrangers) which specify that the right to be heard must be respected before the Agency takes a decision. The practice of verifying Article 3 and Article 8 has been clarified. The practice you refer to is not entirely correct and can always be adapted in the light of new case law. The examination of articles 3 and 8 of the ECHR applies to any person for whom the Aliens Office receives an administrative control report. If, after detention, doubts or uncertainties remain about the risk of a violation of article 3 or 8, another hearing must be held. Of course, the staff member concerned was trained to properly apply the new procedure. If necessary, the hearing shall be conducted in the presence of an interpreter. The person concerned shall be heard as soon as possible, but this may depend on the availability of the interpreter. Since this is an administrative hearing and not a hearing in criminal proceedings, the presence of a lawyer is not required or foreseen. The person concerned shall sign his or her audition and may always request a copy. In the context of the transparency of the administration, the lawyer may always request the file of the person concerned. In addition, new elements and/or evidence may be added to the file at any time and the person concerned may apply for asylum in the centre at any time. Every foreigner who is detained in a closed centre is informed of this, as already noted in the CGRA report. If it appears from the hearing that the person concerned has a fear of his return, within the meaning of the violation of article 3, an asylum procedure will be initiated. I assume you expect an implicit asylum procedure. It must first be examined by the CGRA before repatriation takes place. The most appropriate procedure for examining fear also provides the best procedural guarantees. The Constitutional Court's judgments according to which Article 3 is examined at the time of enforcement, and in particular the Paposhvili judgment against Belgium, can be inferred that no specific time is fixed for the examination of Article 3. The judgment is limited to requiring that the examination take place before the removal is carried out. On the other hand, at the time of the issuance of the order to leave the Territory, the verification of 74/13 must take place. During detention in a closed centre, an alien may still seek international protection. This means that the application must be examined while the person concerned resides in the closed centre. The stay can therefore be extended. The application for asylum, which, as you say, can be made implicitly or explicitly, does not change the duration of the treatment. The Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons does not take this into account. I would also like to point out that the proper procedure for examining fears within the meaning of Article 3 is the asylum procedure and that the CGRA is the appropriate body to do so. Even if the alien is in detention, he or she may still apply for international protection. When processing an implicit application for asylum, the procedure followed is the same as that followed for the ordinary application for asylum, including the Eurodac check. The persons concerned are always informed of the status of their case through the officials returning from the centre. The Agency must explain why the fear is not well-founded, taking into account all the elements put forward. Any new elements are included in a new decision of the Office in order to prevent it from being condemned by the CEC for not exercising the right to be heard in the absence of consideration of the statements made by the person concerned. The current legislation is sufficient to apply this procedure. No circular or order is required to do so. This procedure is the practice observed in our country on the basis of Belgian case law. It complies with the Belgian and European legislation in force.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u99	Secretary of State, following the Sudanese case, which is obviously not completed according to The New York Times – but this is another question – we are going to create a new form of law: the implicit application for asylum. The Foreign Office seems to be moving forward without any circular or order. You say that this is in accordance with Belgian law and European law. In my view, an audit should be carried out. You did not answer my question about whether CGRA approved this new implicit application practice. But the answer is obviously implicitly "yes".
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u100	This issue was obviously discussed with Mr Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u101	What is undeniable is that the CGRA has the expertise to know whether a person can be subjected to torture and whether our country is monitoring the implementation of articles 3 and 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. As far as the method is concerned, I stress again on this point, the implicit application for asylum de facto increases the length of detention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u102	To be clear, Kern invited me to ask for the European Commission's legal opinion on the matter. In my view, the response of the European Commission's Legal Service should come to me today or tomorrow or, at the latest, in a few days' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u103	Therefore, if I have understood correctly, the legal validation of the new method of applying for implicit asylum will have to be approved by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u104	Kern.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u105	This will take the form of an order or circular?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u106	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u107	All right. I heard you. I will return to you once the final decision has been made in Kern. In any event, it is obviously important to verify all the judgments of the Court of Cassation and other judicial bodies in that country. Articles 3 and 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights must be applied in order to prevent the recurrence of what we believe has been committed again: torture in Darfur and in any other country where someone might be subjected to ill-treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u108	To reply briefly, I would like to associate myself with what Mr Hellings has said. The report already indicated that there was no evidence that any torture had been committed. New information is coming in, but you're not moving. I can only regret it, even if I expected it by asking you the question. I regret that this does not affect you any more than that. Our country's responsibility is engaged, but that is not your concern. As you will know, I will remain attentive to the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic877x.u109	Mr Secretary of State, there is still my question No 25155, which I turn into a written question if – but don't get upset – you want to give me your answer right away. In this way, we will both save time.
