ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u2	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Thiébaut and Mrs de Coster-Bachau, referred to their written report. Mr Frédéric, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u3	Mr President, I will be very brief as I have been in committee. With respect to what Minister Reynders proposed in his draft, we have no major concern. I said it. The minister in committee, it must be acknowledged, has provided reassuring answers to the points that we believe need to be assessed in the short term. I am thinking in particular of the time limits for decision-making. On the other hand, one point remains a difficulty and has led us to abstain on this text. The appeal body, which is a judicial body, is made up of magistrates. This is a guarantee that seems obvious to us in view of the sensitivity of the cases dealt with within it and the consequences of these decisions. In the current state of affairs, it seems that the majority does not attach the same importance to this as hitherto. I do not understand very well, Mr President, the reasons which lead the majority to depart from what has long been perceived as the rule in this area. That is why my group has re-tabled the two amendments which ensure a composition in line with the importance of the dossiers dealt with and which give the chair to the Chairman of the Committee R. We will see what the majority vote will be on these two amendments which we believe are entirely justified and sensible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u4	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u5	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3107/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3107/6) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in The title in French has been amended by the committee in draft law amending the Act of 11 December 1998 establishing an appeal body in the field of authorizations, certificates and security notices. The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u6	Art. 1/1(n) • 7 - André Frédéric cs (3107/7) Art. 1/2(n) • 8 - André Frédéric cs (3107/7) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendments as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u7	Sustained: the vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u8	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u9	******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u10	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Vandenput, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, we have already had this debate in committee for a long time, but I would nevertheless like to go back to some of the things that I think are important. First of all, I would like to make it clear that, contrary to what some of my colleagues or the minister may sometimes suggest, the PS is obviously not opposed to partnership agreements. Far from it. But what my group is asking for are many partnership agreements. Unfortunately, what we all see too often is that these are, above all, exploitation agreements rather than real partnerships. The philosophy underlying these Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs) is in the same way that the markets of the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries (the so-called ACP countries) are liberalised as far as possible. Yet, most of the time these countries are among the least developed countries. Of course, all this is presented to us in a good way: that of the development of African countries, of the least developed countries. These agreements would in one way or another favour these countries, allow them to increase their exports to the European Union. This beautiful packaging would try to make us think that they will allow for a strengthening of regional integration for these countries. But when we scratch the varnish a little bit, we see above all and above all that several elements are missing in these agreements, whereas the provisions contained therein are completely contrary to what we are being made to believe. The so-called principle of reciprocity is found in these agreements. This principle implies that the requirements are the same, either for a European Union country or for an ACP country. All these countries must liberalize. And so we find ourselves in a situation where countries that are among the poorest are directly competing with countries that already have well-established economies. In response, we will be told that this is not a serious matter, because there is what is called a safeguard clause in these agreements. Regrettably, this safeguard clause, which may indeed reduce the perverse effects of this principle of reciprocity, is only valid for 12 years. As a result, the European Union is achieving maximum market opening for non-industrialised countries, among the poorest in the world. For example, countries such as Lesotho and Mozambique will see their markets completely open, without any preparation for the consequences of this situation. Another consequence of this type of agreement is that the situation in these countries will be maintained or worsened, and their dependence on the export of raw materials will be much greater. Moreover, these agreements do not provide for monitoring or monitoring mechanisms: a categorical refusal by the Commission persists in this respect. At the same time as these EPA agreements are concluded, parallel processes of agreements between the European Union and countries are being implemented, undermining the idea of regional integration and rendering the possibility of protecting sensitive sectors of liberalisation obsolete. The reference to human rights and sustainable development is made in relation to an agreement that will lapse in 2020, the famous Cotonou Agreements. Finally, we do not have any answers on certain elements. For example, what will the involvement of civil society be? What about the non-binding nature of human rights and sustainable development standards? What about a monitoring or monitoring mechanism that is not at all planned? These agreements are totally unbalanced. Above all and above all, they respond to the economic interests of large European companies and unfortunately not enough to the real needs of our citizens and those of the ACP countries. That is why my group will oppose the draft before us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u12	Mr President, I am not going back to everything that has already been said in committee. I would simply remind you, since we are going back to plenary, that these agreements are asymmetric agreements, in which the European Union gives a much greater opening than the partner countries. That's very logical. We want to help these countries in their development. This is why market opening is weaker, including at the end of the period, in these partner countries. They also retain customs duties for products sensitive to international competition. Of course, they contain a number of transitional safeguard clauses, but also permanent, definitive safeguard clauses. These are all the trade defence instruments provided for by WTO rules and bilateral safeguards. Finally, I would like to reiterate the importance of the chapter on sustainable development, in which all partners are committed to international rules, including the International Labour Organization. I regret that everyone does not support this type of partnership, which, I repeat, encourages a number of developments in countries in Africa that are in great need of it, in this case southern Africa. We will, of course, lead the negotiations on the post-Cotonou agreements. As I said in committee, we cannot, of course, augur well for the content of these agreements until these negotiations are conducted. The Belgian approach is, in any case, always part of the preservation of an important African component as well as of a component of support for the development of the African countries in need.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u13	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u14	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3087/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3087/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u15	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u16	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Vincent Van Peteghem. He shall refer to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u17	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ratifying a trade agreement may be a good thing, but what kind of agreement is that? The trade agreement in question must ensure balanced and equitable development for all parties, a development that respects trade rules, but also guarantees respect for human rights, social and environmental standards. We have not had the opportunity to have a great deal of hearings on these texts in the framework of the Federal Parliament; however, lengthy hearings have been held in the Wallonia Parliament. So you will allow me to go back to some of the elements that have been exposed to it. The hearings in the Wallonia Parliament highlighted several elements. Firstly, that the trade agreement between the European Union, Colombia and Peru, which is now extended to Ecuador, would strengthen the rights of large companies, that this type of agreement was also a hindrance to the extension of guarantees which ensure, in a way, respect for human rights, and that this would also diminish the sovereignty of the Ecuadorian State in its ability to manage its own public policies. Secondly, the sectors which will benefit from the agreement are, in the end, very small. These include industrial agriculture, shrimp, bananas and flowers. These are sectors that are being challenged, not least for their disastrous impact on the environment, but also for human rights, particularly workers' rights. The hearings also pointed out that importing food from Europe, which will necessarily increase as a result of this agreement, will destroy local production SMEs, which are the ones that create the largest number of jobs in the rural areas concerned and provide most of the food for Ecuadorians. The hearings also pointed out that this would reinforce unfair competition between the European Union and Ecuador, that the most exported products are milk, its derivatives, vegetables, cereals and grains and meat products; products which are themselves worked in Ecuador by the peasant economy. The question of social and trade union rights is also raised. The rate of trade unionism, so low in the Ecuadorian banana sector, is precisely linked to the repression and persecution of workers. The conditions for these hearings were therefore as follows: the risk that this trade agreement would strengthen a primary export model, which would prevent the consolidation of better working conditions, based on an industrial and service economy. Especially since there is no binding monitoring mechanism. It is for these reasons, which are widely debated in committee, that my group will oppose this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u18	Mr President, we can hear Mrs Grovonius' arguments and respect the debates in the Walloon Parliament, but our group really supports this bill, also for historical reasons, referred to by the minister in committee. Colombia has just gone through decades of war. There was the period of the Violencia between landowners, the fight against drug traffickers, the war against FARC, etc. At a time when this House must consider a proposal for a text aimed at establishing an agreement with these countries that allows people to develop their activities and finally move towards a pacified society, we must not hesitate to support this bill. That's what our group does.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u19	Mr President, of course I am not going to go back to the debate we have had in committee. I would just like to remind you that this is Ecuador's accession protocol to this agreement with Colombia and Peru. With regard to Ecuador, it is a clear commitment to respect and implement multilateral international environmental agreements in the area of sustainable development. Ecuador has also ratified the eight core ILO conventions. When we talk about environment and work, Ecuador is trying to move in this direction. I would add that we have just had meetings in recent days, bringing together the European Union and CELAC, namely Latin America, Central America and the Caribbean. All of these partners express a major desire for progress on these various agreements. As I have pointed out, we are making progress in Belgium, as in other countries. This expectation is very strong, in Colombia, Peru, Ecuador and other countries, as well as in the Mercosur countries, which are still under negotiation. Finally, of course, I am never involved in the debates that take place within the federated entities, but, to my knowledge, after very many hearings and a very broad debate in the Wallonia Parliament, this Parliament has decided, in full autonomy, to ratify this agreement as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u20	Minister, thank you for the answers and thank you to Mr. Miller for his interventions. We always come back to the same thing. There is no monitoring, monitoring or sanctions mechanism in these agreements if these social, environmental and labour rights are not respected. In this case, we have no certainty that these agreements will actually improve the situation on the ground. You pointed out that many people on the ground are calling for the conclusion of these agreements in the countries concerned. I think we have all heard from representatives of Colombian, Peruvian or Ecuadorian civil society here or in the Wallonia Parliament who have expressed the greatest fears and criticisms about these agreements. Regrettably, it is once again evident that the interests of major groups and industries are given priority, to the detriment of the demands of civil society.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u21	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u22	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3088/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3088/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u23	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u24	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u25	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u26	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3129/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3129/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u27	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u28	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, rapporteur, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u29	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3145/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3145/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u30	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u31	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Peter Luykx, rapporteur, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u32	Mr President, Minister, on 4 July last in the Wallonia Parliament, Mrs Simonis referred to a note by the Walloon government on the new model of the Investment Treaty of the Belgo-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU) concerning, inter alia, the exit of the ISDS system and the preservation of the capacity of public authorities to legislate for the general interest. Minister, I would like to hear from you and the federal government about this new treaty model. Have you received any feedback, in particular, on this new model text? Has Luxembourg amended the text? Will this text be presented to the House and, if so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u33	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I should like to begin by reminding you that Barbados was a country which, seven months ago, was still on the list of tax havens of the European Union. In the meantime, it has disappeared, but Barbados is still a state considered by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) as a tax haven. I recall here that the FATF is an intergovernmental body responsible for combating money-laundering and the financing of terrorism, of which Belgium is a full member. It is therefore politically inappropriate to approve today an investment protection agreement with a tax haven. A second remark and a joint question with Mrs Grovonius is that it is Mrs Simonet of the CDH and not Mrs Simonis of the PS who, in the Walloon Parliament, announced a new model of the investment treaty of the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union. It would be interesting if we could briefly take stock of your new model project in order to find out where it is. Thirdly, why have we presented this agreement today, which is rather unwelcome, with a tax haven according to an old model, while the new model will soon be submitted to us for ratification for other agreements of this type with other countries which, I hope, are not tax havens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u34	Mr President, as the explanatory memorandum makes clear, the aim of this agreement with Barbados is, in addition to encouraging investment, to offer investors the guarantees of maximum protection, the obligation of compensation in the case of private property measures, the free transfer of income, etc. This is an agreement that is only for the benefit of investors, i.e. mainly multinationals. What is even more disturbing is that this agreement is concluded with what I continue to call a tax haven. Barbados is indeed a well-known tax haven in Belgium. For example, offshore Leaks show that Belfius has for years offered products passing through Barbados Island. A subsidiary of AB InBev, a company belonging to the families of Spoelberch, Van Damme et al., which are among the greatest fortunes in Belgium, is located in Barbados. Given its name as Banks Holdings Limited, I do not believe it is a beverage company. Barbados is considered a particularly harmful tax haven. As such, it appears on many lists. It is thus ranked 13th on the list of the 15 worst tax havens used by companies around the world established by Oxfam International. Oxfam's report mentions the following negative elements about this country: low corporate taxes, 0% withholding tax and lack of participation in multilateral initiatives to combat abuses of transparency. The Tax Justice Network report, which measures the financial opacity of tax havens, gives Barbados a score of 73.85, ranked 33rd on a list of 112 tax havens with scores ranging from 41 to 88. Barbados is also on the list of 28 tax havens listed in the Paradise Papers. It is even the only country that has been included in both the Paradise Papers and the European Union's blacklist. Barbados is also on the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) list.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u35	The European Union noted at the end of 2017 that Barbados had a harmful preferential tax regime. It is true that, in January 2018, Barbados left the European Union blacklist to be on the grey list. I therefore do not think that it can be said that this country is no longer a tax haven. Of course, this country has been removed from the blacklist, but on what basis? A simple commitment: a letter signed by the Barbados authorities saying that they will change their way of doing things. Nothing has been shown about this so far! The best proof that this country is a tax haven, is it not under the pen of our Foreign Minister that we can find it? On page 8, the explanatory memorandum before us today presents Barbados' legislation, which states, on the subject of taxation, what could almost be regarded as a prospectus for the "paradisiac" taxation of Barbados with respect to investors who would be interested in this agreement. I quote: "For offshore financial services companies (more than 1,000 are registered on the island), the main tax benefits are 1% tax on profits declared to be more than $15 million. In addition, expatriate staff receive a salary partially exempt from local taxes. Companies must belong to non-nationals and their activities directed exclusively to the provision of services outside the CARICOM area. In this category with a particularly advantageous tax system, foreign investment is also used exclusively for the export of manufactured goods. These institutions enjoy a total exemption from their profits for 15 years and a very light scheme thereafter, i.e. 2.5%. They also enjoy off-duty import opportunities for their inputs. Investment in the tourism sector: possibility of deducting up to 150% of the interest charge, rapid depreciation of capital, non-customs imports, etc." As you can see, finally, from all these lists, all those analyses that conclude that Barbados is a tax haven, which is the most convincing? This is the Minister's explanatory statement, which shows us how much Belgian investors will benefit fully from a tax haven and also from the benefits of this investment agreement. It is quite disturbing that this government favours so much a tax haven and organises an investment agreement with it, when it seemed to me that the international trend was towards the fight against tax havens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u36	Mr President, on 2 March we reached an agreement at the Interministerial Conference with the representatives of the Regions to move forward in the ratification of the agreements already signed. We have been more restrictive than we thought in the past by not wishing to move forward on the initialled agreements. This agreement is one of the agreements signed and ratified at the federal level. As far as the reasoning on tax haven is concerned, Mr Hellings reminded us, we waited for this partner to come out of the European Union list before taking an attitude. However, the text has already been ratified by Flanders since 6 May 2011 and by Wallonia since 12 January 2012. At one time, there was no doubt about listing. You should ask your group leader who was vice-president of the Walloon government why he wanted the Walloon Parliament to ratify this agreement. I have already told Mrs Grovonius in committee: depending on membership of the majority or the opposition, it would seem that there is a very strong change in attitude. I repeat: this agreement has already been ratified by Barbados, of course, but also by the Wallonia Parliament in 2012, as well as by the Flemish Parliament. We're just trying to move forward. In relation to the document referred to in the Wallonia Parliament, I am parliamentary debates throughout our country, but I have not yet received a document from the Walloon government on this subject. We will look at it with pleasure. For the rest, we have indeed submitted to our Luxembourg partners the documents of model texts, which are the subject of an agreement on the Belgian side. We will hold these debates until the beginning of the parliamentary year and then come back to committee meeting with this new model text. On these various texts, there is an agreement between governments at the federal and regional levels to move forward. It is true that we waited until we had this development on the list of tax havens before we proceeded with the ratification. This has not been the case for all regions but everyone freely assumes their will to move forward or not, when a country is on a blacklist.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u37	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u38	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3146/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3146/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u39	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole will take place tomorrow. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u40	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u41	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u42	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3170/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3170/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u43	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole will take place tomorrow. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u44	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u45	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u46	Mr President, this is a consensus text, which has not been the subject of a report. Minister, I have a question, however, which I forgot to ask you in committee. I take the opportunity to put it here. Article 3 of the famous protocol to combat torture provides that each State Party shall establish, designate or administer, at the national level, one or more visiting bodies to prevent torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. My question is about the national mechanism to be set up in Belgium. To my knowledge - contradict me if I am wrong - the government has not yet implemented this national mechanism which, in the spirit of the treaty to which we agree today, must concern all places of detention. Absolutely all of them! The famous treaty contains an article 24 which opens the possibility for the ratifying State to postpone the implementation of this monitoring body by three years. The Explanatory Memorandum comments on this provision without indicating the use that the government could make of this option to defer for three years. Minister, are you considering implementing this mechanism now or in three years' time? Will you make use of section 24? What about this mechanism in Belgium? The fourth law of your colleague Mr Geens, which was passed a year or two ago, provides for the transfer of the system of supervision of prisons from the FPS Justice to the Federal Parliament. This is expected to come into force on January 9, 2019 – soon. But it's only about prison control. What about closed centres for foreigners, IPPJs, transit areas of national airports and police stations? How are you going to implement Article 3 of the Convention in practice? When? Do you have any exceptions? President: Siegfried Bracke, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u47	Mr President, Mr Hellings, I can confirm that the Minister of Justice is in the process of putting this mechanism in place. The problems are indeed related to the scope of this mechanism, which should apply to all detention centres, including centres under other levels of authority. This should in a way be an inter-federal mechanism. I, for my part, have had the opportunity to receive, in particular, federal mediators and those of the Communities, who could possibly play a role. It will therefore be necessary to choose between the various existing tools or the creation of a new tool. The work is under way at Justice. You will surely have the opportunity to come back to the Justice Committee with the minister in charge of the matter. For the time being, the intention is not to postpone implementation, but to continue implementation. The debate focuses on this ability to cover all places of detention. You mentioned a number of them, but IPPJs are also part of them as a series of others.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u48	Minister, I take note of the goodwill of the government and the Minister of Foreign Affairs in particular. From your answer, minister, I take it that you will not apply section 24 of the convention that we are going to ratify earlier. In any case, you will have all the votes of the Ecolo-Groen Group in the vote on this additional protocol.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u49	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u50	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3192/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3192/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u51	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u52	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u53	Mr President, the report of our work is divided into two main parts. The first is the record of the expert hearings on this very important issue. If I wanted to report to the gallery, I would have to read them all in order to avoid making mistakes and avoiding – horresco referens – using them in a biased way and betraying them. The second part of the report traditionally consists of the resumption of the positions of the various political groups, which are likely to be expressed in the rostrum. That is why I am referring to my written report, informing you that I will speak earlier, instead of Mr Flahaux, who has lost his voice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u54	Quite a few speakers have been registered. Mr Luykx has the floor first.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, those of you who go down to Brussels every week or even every day still see the stickers on the traffic lights in the Rue de la Loi with the message "Stop CETA." Well, today we in this House will give the green light for that trade agreement. That green light is a powerful signal that, despite all the excitement that has passed, we are still capable of finding a majority that is clearly willing to opt for free trade, economic interests and prosperity for the citizen. Our majority dares to opt for multilateralism, for economic cooperation between countries. In the present times, with all kinds of events and President Trump on the scene, it cannot be sufficiently underlined how important such trade agreements are to ensure our prosperity. Fortunately, there is no such thing as bad advertising, because all the trouble of the opposition may well have realized that the eyes of our entrepreneurs have opened up to the opportunities in Canada. We were able to measure this in terms of the increase in exports to Canada just in the quarter before its entry into force. The press already baptized that as the CETA effect. The proclamation of this agreement is therefore already very positive. We gave the scoop for the ratification of that treaty to our colleagues in Flanders, who made the right choice two weeks ago. We would also be surprised if Flanders, which accounted for around 90% of the total Belgian-Canadian trade in 2016, had not taken that decision and had not validated and ratified that interest for Flanders. Colleagues, the years of the negotiations were good. It has certainly exhausted the debate and given everyone the opportunity to criticise and study the dossier further. What we are approving here today is a modern trade and investment protection agreement, the agreement of a new generation that will set the standard for other treaties. That is not just what we are saying, because I understand from the opposition that good steps have been taken in the further development of this treaty. What is important is that it also became a balanced agreement for us. Not only for offensive reasons, but also for defensive reasons. We have had a lot of hearings in the Committee on External Relations, and although everyone has to do something about it, this is a win-win dossier for both parties, for Europe and Canada, and of course also for Flanders and Belgium. The opening-up of markets thanks to this agreement is of an unprecedented size. Soon we will be facing the Japanese trade agreement, another step further, but this is very important. The European Union estimates the new commercial opportunities between Europe and Canada resulting from this agreement to be EUR 22 billion per year. In our relations with Canada, too, there is still a large, underutilised trade potential. With CETA, we hope to be able to unlock this. Think of removing barriers, both tarifair and non-tarifair, equalising diplomas, the creation of investment and opportunities for our SMEs, Canadian public procurement, think of dredging works, which were previously stubbornly shielded from the free market, which will now be opened up. All of these are opportunities, which we are sure will be seized by our innovative companies. We repeat that this is not at the expense of our high European standards. There won't be any doom images of chlorine chickens flooding our market. On the contrary, there will be better protection for intellectual property, specific agricultural products, consumers and environmental standards. There will be no action against regulation that protects health, the environment and consumers or improves working conditions. So we say goodbye to the old arbitration system of the ISDS and pull the full map of the ICS. Colleagues, let's not drag ourselves any longer. We need to give the CETA path here today the green light and our support. It's the right path and we've all waited long enough for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u56	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, trade is obviously an important thing. The PS is not opposed to trade, but what trade? Not just how. Not at any price! For you, unfortunately, trade is often above all, regardless of the risks to social, environmental rights and, ultimately, the impact on our citizens. Obviously, when the PS says it, you quickly did to minimize: the PS makes ideology; the PS is against trade, blah, blah, blah. They're the usual rookies. In truth, I have the feeling, minister, that you sometimes seem to suffer from selective listening or amnesia. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u57	Go on, Mrs. Grovonius. Colleagues, let us listen to Mrs Grovonius.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u58	Is our Red Devil, or rather Blue Devil, ready to listen? Minister, I was saying that I sometimes feel that you suffer from a kind of variable geometry listening or a form of selective amnesia. All too often, you forget that the PS has always defended our dealings with Canada. I have said this on many occasions, and I repeat: Canada is a friendly country, an important partner of Belgium, the European Union and the Francophonie, and we must do everything we can to ensure that it remains so. Then you also ignore the criticisms made by all the other actors. The PS is not the only one to question different aspects of this Treaty. I will take an example of one of the people who was interviewed in the Committee on External Relations, Mrs Monique Goyens, Director-General of the European Bureau of Consumer Unions (BEUC). I know you're going to tell me that the BEUC is also an armed arm of the PS. We know the story, but I do not think that Mrs Goyens can be suspect in this matter. What did Mrs Goyens tell us in committee? First of all, she told us that this CETA has shortcomings and risks, that there are no impact studies and that only the interests of European and Canadian companies have been considered. The interests of consumers and therefore of our citizens - and I am adding this -, whether European or Canadian, have never been taken into account in the negotiations. Mrs Goyens also tells us that, with regard to the price reduction promised, there is no evidence at all that a reduction in tariffs will ipso facto lead to a fall in consumer prices for the benefit of the consumer. Indeed, companies can also decide that any gains will be used, for example, to increase the dividends of their shareholders. Ms. Goyens also spoke of this famous ISDS arbitration clause, which in the meantime became ICS. With regard to the risks associated with this famous arbitration clause, Ms Goyens agrees with us that the ICS was indeed an improvement over the ISDS. Unfortunately, this is insufficient to guarantee consumer protection. The ICS always allows an investor to be compensated if the entry into force of legislation, which is in the public interest, causes him harm. So, according to Mrs Goyens, this is an important gap. She also returned to the case pending before the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU). Mrs Goyens asks why we should not wait for the judgment of this Court. Especially since the Court has already ruled by questioning the competence of interpretation of the rules of European law, offered to an arbitration tribunal under another treaty, namely the Treaty between the Netherlands and Slovakia, this famous Ashmea case for insiders. The PS, in the end, doesn't say anything else. But it is easier to caricature our remarks than just trying to listen to what might call into question some of your orientation that I might call obstinate. What matters is to move forward at all costs, even if a sword of Damocles hangs above our heads and this treaty in the end, the future of which will also depend on this opinion of the CJEU. So you'll excuse me, but I don't think it's protectionism to "make legal certainty take precedence in the end," says Reynders. Nor, Mr Minister, do I think that it is protectionism to simply call for an agreement between the various entities in this country. In my view, it is simply a matter of respect for our institutions and citizens. Indeed, thanks to the mobilization of citizens, the activism of civil society and the determination of a few politicians, Wallonia obtained a joint interpretative instrument with binding legal force. This instrument is now part of the Treaty as such. Of course, not everything is perfect. Nevertheless, we recognize that this is a welcome step forward. Moreover, Minister, you do not deprive yourself of greeting her or sometimes even of taking her for granted. Despite the substance and progress achieved, there remains a major formal problem that justifies our opposition to the ratification of this treaty: the federal government's lack of loyalty to both the spirit and the letter of this intra-Belgian agreement. Indeed, he torpedoed a text he had signed. Firstly, it decided to ratify the Treaty before the ECJ had delivered its opinion on the compatibility of the ICS with the European Treaties. Secondly, he also rejected our motion for a resolution calling for the introduction of a mechanism to assess the socio-economic and environmental effects of CETA, whereas it was black and white in the intra-Belgian agreement. Similarly, he rejected our amendment, which would have given explicit legal force to the so-called "complementary declarations" annexed to this Treaty, as was suggested to us during the hearings in the Committee on External Relations. All these initiatives, unfortunately, once again illustrate the principled free trade of this majority, without any consideration for the impact on our socio-economic fabric, our farmers, our social security or our environmental standards. The blindness seems total. However, you still have a chance to make up for it. The amendment I have just mentioned is attached to this plenary session. Having said that, I have little illusion and fear that he will suffer the same fate as the one inflicted on him in committee. The federal government and the parliamentarians of this majority are thus part of the renunciation and hypocrisy displayed by the new Walloon MR-cdH majority, be it CETA or other trade agreements. I will conclude by stressing the lack of political courage of this majority, which refuses to consider the possibility of rethinking, evaluating or even simply daring to question Belgian and European foreign trade policy. Colleagues, you are once again demonstrating that it is easier to accuse others of self-absorbing, than to ask the right questions and learn from the past. For all these reasons, my group and I will reject the ratification of CETA, as our PS MEPs have consistently done at European Parliament level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u59	My political group strongly supports this bill, which endorses a ratification that opens the way for new economic opportunities and also reaffirms the link that unites us in Canada. This new type of trade treaty goes far beyond any other such agreement, including considerations of social progress and environmental considerations. Moreover, given the current volatile geopolitical situation, we believe that CETA is timely, both economically and politically. The MR, aware of the benefits of this Treaty for Belgium, has long been firmly committed to it. Politically, Canada is one of the countries with which the signing of such an agreement seems most natural. Economically, Belgium, as a member of the European Union, will gain significantly, as already indicated by the first figures we have had since the provisional entry into force of the Treaty. Many experts, including the Walloon Export and Foreign Investment Agency (AWEX), noted the increase in revenues and trade with Canada. At the same time, environmental and social commitments and dispute resolution mechanisms reinforce our analysis. There is no doubt that Canada is, outside Europe, one of our most loyal allies. This was particularly the case in the last century, during the two world wars. Today, 120,000 Belgians are settled in Canada and about 180,000 Canadians live with us. Canada is a strategic ally and a founding member of NATO. Apart from this strong historical bond, the current political evolution of our partner, under the leadership of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, also strengthens our support. The latter succeeded in instilling a new dynamic in economic terms, while paying great attention to social, societal and environmental issues. His penchant for multilateralism also led him to fight the isolationism that was unfortunately in grace for the time being, particularly in the United States, a direct neighbour of Canada. And also the temptations of identity retreats that appear in many countries. At the societal level, in terms of values, our convergence is complete. Our political relations are strong and fruitful. As I pointed out in committee, our societies share the same political and social values. Canada is a reliable partner on which we can build. Our two countries have also chosen a living bilingualism (or even trilingualism in Belgium), which also makes Belgium rich. So we must collectively reflect on this! As Foreign Minister Reynders mentioned, if Belgium and the European Union were unable to ratify such a free trade agreement, then we should seriously ask ourselves – and I am not speaking directly to Mrs Grovonius, to rest it – what other country we would still be in a position to negotiate and ratify such a treaty?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u60	Mr Miller, Mr Hellings wishes to speak. You have the floor, Mr. Hellings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Miller, I will answer your question. Is CETA the enlargement of the European Union to Canada? No! No! It is a specific mechanism, a trade treaty – as you said – of a new kind, which provides for specific mechanisms that are not regulatory convergence as we know it within the EU. And, moreover, we see this with the debate on the Brexit that is under way. The European Union's contribution can be seen, by decal, as a regulated market at European level. That is to say, each member of the EU must respect the rules in order to operate the market we have in common. The CETA treaty with Canada is exactly the opposite. It is not intended to create a large market with common rules. But, conversely, it tends to create a large market for large multinational structures on both sides of the Atlantic, with mechanisms such as the Multinational Specific Court and the prior regulatory convergence aimed at deregulating the created transatlantic market. It is for this reason that this Treaty is fundamentally different and that many associations oppose the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA), because it represents the negation of the European Union. Mr Miller, if we want to extend the European Union to extra-continental, extra-European states tomorrow, let us do it! But this enlargement will mean that Canada or another non-European country integrates all the acquis communautaire, all the directives, all the regulations into its national law. Yet Canada will not incorporate European regulations and directives into its national law. We are talking about active directives in all fields, social, environmental, human rights, etc. In a few months, a few years, a few decades, Canada and Canadian multinational companies will be able to use the tools of the Treaty with the European Union to not prevent the European Union from legislating or removing European standards, but to deter them from doing so. In fact, always present, Damocles' sword of recourse to a court of justice specifically dedicated to multinationals will deter states from legislating towards more social justice or more environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u62	Mr Hellings, we have already had many discussions on this subject in committee meetings. Firstly, I am really happy to hear you say all the good you think of the rules of the European internal market. This is a welcome European Union voluntarism. Although not everything is perfect within this intra-European market, mechanisms are in place to develop and improve the current rules, how to organise the development of our economy and the redistribution of wealth within it. Secondly, I know that this bill does not propose Canada's accession to the European Union. I am not saying that the idea is totally crazy or that it will not be possible to envisage any further agreements. I defend the idea of further developing towards the south of the European Basin and, beyond that, towards Africa. Minister Reynders also raised the issue of our relations with Russia. But, for the moment, we are here to discuss a bill on an agreement, it is true, to implement a large commercial market. We are satisfied with this implementation, but it is also because it allows the European social and environmental criteria to be maintained. That is why we support this bill. If, politically, he puts our ties with our Canadian cousins more in the marble, he offers unique opportunities to our European, Belgian, Flemish and Walloon economies and businesses – as Mr Lyukx pointed out – and Walloons. I refer to the figures provided by AWEX in committee. Our interests are clearly defined. Being the third most globalized country on the planet and one of the most open economies – we export more than 80% of our GDP. Any trade changes or lack of visibility in this area would serve us. As such, Brexit, which concerns our 4th trading partner and the protectionist measures adopted by Donald Trump in the United States, our 5th partner, are, of course, a source of uncertainty. That is why we need a clear framework for our trade with Canada. All the more so since, as has been announced by some, if WTO reform really were to take place, Europe would not be able to bring these values to WTO level alone. It will need secure allies who share the same values, principles and concerns as the European Union, namely a country like Canada. Trusted partners will then be of great help to us. In addition, this treaty would allow us to further diversify our export countries. When we know that more than 70% of our imports are into the countries of the European Union, a development of trade relations with Canada, Mr. Hellings, can only be positive for our economy. Our companies must be able to look for growth where it is. In the global economic context, troubled in more than one way, these types of bilateral treaties are of particular importance. In this regard, it is shown that export-related jobs are often more stable and better paid than others. While our ratification is essential for the full effectiveness of CETA, it has, as you know, provisionally entered into force. At the hearings in committee, the figures that have been sent to us illustrate the positive effects – even if they need to be put into perspective because the period of provisional operation is short – for our country and for federated entities such as Wallonia, Flanders and Brussels. These early signs should prompt us to ratify the treaty before us without delay. In this way, CETA will benefit the Belgian economy, but it also includes other aspects that make it a new generation agreement. In fact, CETA manages to combine trade with social and environmental progress. It is exemplary in the protection of human rights, preserves the right of states to legislate in the public interest, preserve their cultural industry, protect labour standards or promote the protection of the planet. All these elements were discussed by the European experts who negotiated CETA, also thanks to the popular mobilisation that followed and to the attention paid by the various Parliaments throughout the European Union. These results are achieved. With regard to the issue of dispute settlement, which is notoriously sensitive, we place our trust in the ICS. Unlike ISDS, which was so criticized during the TTIP negotiations, this mechanism and, tomorrow, the Multilateral Investment Court will be an independent and neutral body to settle the disputes that will arise. We are not naive, but cautious and confident. Some aspects are still being debated today. That's right. I am thinking of the weakness of impact studies. This is also the case with the form of regulatory cooperation. It will, let us recall, be voluntary in nature. The way governments will help our businesses enter the Canadian market must also be monitored. Finally, as was pointed out in committee, we will have to ensure – on this point, Mrs Grovonius, I fully share your concern – that the gains for companies benefit consumers at the end of the chain. If some aspects of the text deserve our full vigilance, it is a matter of trusting vigilance or vigilant trust – it is as you wish – and benevolent that we give to CETA. The follow-up to this treaty after its entry into force will have to be seriously organised. We will be committed to the use of experts and in-depth studies in this regard. In short, we are moving in the right direction. That is also the view of our colleague Peter Luykx. This is the path that has been laid out and also pointed out by our Foreign Minister in committee, when he summarized in four essential parts the lines that emerge from this agreement. Firstly, this text provides us with a starting point for an innovative and ambitious agreement. CETA is indeed very ambitious in terms of market liberalisation. You are right, Mrs Grovonius, we are committed to a free market economy, where people can live and trade freely and in peace. The Treaty tends to remove 99% of customs barriers. It provides unparalleled access to public procurement. This is another step that has been taken as a result of the negotiations. We will also have access to Canadian government procurement, including at the sub-federal level. In addition, CETA creates the possibility of establishing a regulatory dialogue without limiting the law of the regulated. This means that, subsequently, the Member States of the European Union will still be able to regulate what they wish to do in social, environmental, etc. Secondly, CETA is also a starting point for the conclusion of progressive agreements. CETA uses Belgian values and standards as the basis for how Belgium, together with its European partners, intends to actively shape international trade. It is a solid basis for everything that can be negotiated in the future, in particular – I hope – by our Foreign Minister. It contains important and strict provisions on sustainable development. These objectives will guide trade closely with Canada. In this respect, the agreement responds to a growing demand from citizens to further integrate societal objectives into the way Belgian companies operate their economic activities. Thirdly, this agreement is a starting point for a fundamental reform of investment protection. Many debates in our home have led to excellent questions. CETA will replace traditional private arbitration with a bilateral investment court. This is a key step in the political recovery towards a genuine multilateralisation of investment protection. Finally, CETA is the starting point for the conclusion of ambitious and balanced agreements because of the fact that at the level of its implementation it will be subject to monitoring – a very important element and that we must remember everything that has been discussed and implemented in order to arrive at this bill – and a strict assessment that will allow for continuous adaptation, not least in terms of sustainable development, but also, and above all, because this will help to draw lessons in the negotiations of other forthcoming agreements. I believe that this forum has already been referred to today as trade negotiations with Japan. Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons I have just stated, the Reform Movement will vote with enthusiasm for this text. We see it as the result of a long work, a long series of debates for months, perhaps even years, in our assemblies, whether in federated entities or at the federal level. We support this treaty, which further seals the ties between Belgium and Canada and which will benefit our economy as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u63	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few months we have often discussed different and sometimes worrying trends in the world, ranging from migration, trade policy to the situation in the Middle East. We have come to the same conclusion over and over again: we must take our own future more often with Europe and the EU; the EU must build bridges, unlike Trump, which breaks down bridges; we must rely on our own strength. Colleagues, with this agreement, together with the agreement that was signed in Japan last week, we are indeed going down that road, the path of our own strength, the road of building bridges. We can rightly be proud of CETA. The conclusion of trade agreements is not evident today. CETA illustrates as the best thing that Europe offers a counterweight to the protectionist trend, that it is a strong trading partner and that it takes the lead in building bridges worldwide in an increasingly complex world. My group is convinced that regulated free trade is crucial not only for our prosperity but also for our security. For an open economy like ours, a sustainable trade policy is crucial. No less than 571 000 jobs depend on exports outside Europe, a figure that will only increase in the future. Trade, growth, jobs, they are the basis of our prosperity. CETA has, of course, led to discussions in recent years, even here in the hemisphere. It itself came to the point where the credibility of our country was compromised and the international community and our European partners began to wonder what a mandate given by the Belgian Government in 2009 and 2011 still means if the parties who previously supported the mandate, the subsequent agreement, which fully meets that mandate, no longer supports the opposition banks. That was a wrong way of doing things. Several organisations and NGOs have rightly expressed many concerns and concerns. I am truly proud of this vibrant civil society in our country, which brings such things to the surface. Not only our group, but also the government, the European Commission and the Canadian government, have taken these concerns seriously. For example, during the negotiations, many expressed concern about the course of the negotiation process, but this resulted in the European Commission taking major steps forward in terms of transparency in the negotiations. This transparency grew compared to the past. Ladies and gentlemen, the legally binding interpretative statement provides an answer to many of these concerns, in so far as it has not yet been clear from the negotiated texts. CETA maintains the precautionary principle and does not change European standards. Nor does it affect the legislative initiative of the European Union and its Member States to develop their own standards and regulations. For our group, it is important to work with allies such as Canada, just to raise global standards and at all times avoid a downward spiral in the field of environment or labour standards. Of course, this regulatory cooperation can only take place on a voluntary basis and the Trade Agreement, CETA, guarantees that. In response to the many concerns of civil society, which we also expressed in committee, the European Union decided to adapt the existing ISDS system and, at a late stage of negotiations with Canada at the request of the EU, added the Investment Court System, a public legal system, to CETA for legal investment protection. CETA is groundbreaking in this sense, because such a multilateral investment court will be able to judge purely on disputes arising from the investment chapters. The ruling of the European Court of Justice in the Achmea case makes it clear that international dispute resolution mechanisms should not be binding on the interpretation and enforcement of EU law for treaties to which the EU is a party. Ladies and gentlemen, during the debates some people wondered whether the agreement was necessary. Many tariffs are already low and Canada is not such an important trading partner, they say. Well, almost 1 700 Belgian companies are exporting to Canada today and thus indirectly providing almost 23 000 jobs, 70% of which are SMEs. Belgium's exports of goods to Canada increased by 30% in 2017, the year in which CETA entered into force provisionally, compared to 2016. We can also expect important new opportunities, by opening public tenders in Canada to Belgian companies. The economic added value of the agreement, both for our companies and for our consumers, seems clear to me. That is why our group will support ratification. It is a very balanced free trade agreement, in which we have worked with EU governments to find the best protection for sensitive sectors. We see the agreement with a similar country like Canada as an important step forward in EU trade policy. After all, Canada is much more than a trading partner; it is a strategic partner in the geopolitical context and the security context for cooperation on sustainability, migration and the management of climate challenges. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, CETA is a crucial step to demonstrate that Europe is ready to take the lead in a world order that focuses on multilateral cooperation and regulated sustainable trade. For these reasons, the draft law can count on our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u64	Mr President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I will try not to repeat what I said in committee. Allow me first of all to put forward two fundamental reasons, in my view, for not approving the proposed treaty tomorrow. The first reason has to do with the overall assessment of the development of globalisation in our world. I remember the debate 30 to 40 years ago on what kind of globalisation we wanted. One had the adepts of ultraglobalisation and most of the time one found them on the right side of the political playing field, one had the alterglobalists, to which I count myself, and there were even the antiglobalists. In fact, trade agreements have served as a driving force for globalisation over the last 30 to 40 years. The neoliberal supporters of globalisation presented us with the image of a global free trade paradise. Thanks to the network of free trade agreements, we would see the whole world flourish. After 30 years, I think it's good that the ultra-globalists take a look at the state of the world. I'll give you some results here. Since 2015, not so long ago, the richest 1% of the world has more than the other 99% of the world's population. Since 2016, eight people possess as much as the poorest 3.6 billion people in the world. I can give you their names. They won't sound unfamiliar to you. Bill Gates, Amancio Ortega, Warren Buffet, Carlos Slim, Jeff Bezos, Mark Zuckerberg, Larry Ellison and Michael Bloomberg own as much as the lower half of the world's population.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u65	Mr Van Peteghem has asked for the floor for an interruption.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u66	You are making a correct comparison, but at the same time you must also dare to show the evolution of extreme poverty in the world. That's because it's gone down. In 1990, 36% of the world's population had to live at 0.9 euros a day. Today, that is 18%. The extreme poverty is therefore halved. This is also a consequence of globalisation. You may therefore give a nuanced picture in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u67	Thank you for your intervention, but you will agree with me that 75% of the improvement in poverty can be reduced to one country, China. Look at the figures and the efforts made in China to remove the poorest regions from poverty. I am prepared to accept much, but you cannot claim that 75% would have been removed from poverty by unbridled free trade in China. That claim wouldn't make any sense. Soon I will come to the reasons why we have reached those figures. I would ask you to consider the results of 30 years of promises made that we were on our way to the global free trade paradise. I would like to draw your attention to this: look at the results of the policy pursued. Let me give you another example. The incomes of the 10 % poorest have increased by 3 dollars a year since 1988, while the incomes of the richest 1 % have increased 182 times more. The income of the richest 1 % has risen 182 times more than the income of the 10 % poorest! Let me give another example: a CEO of a global top 100 company earns as much as ten thousand people working in the textile industry in Bangladesh in one year. I'll give you one last reference. New research by Thomas Piketty shows that in the United States over the last 30 years the income growth of the 50 % poorest Americans has been zero percent, while the income of the richest 1% has increased by 300 %! This kind of trade agreement is at the heart of globalisation. How is it that such results are obtained? It's very simple. What is the result of opening up all state borders, but also of limiting the ability of governments to regulate free trade, which you have just argued for? This gives rise to a concentration of economic power. I have given you eight names of persons, but you can add the names of the large multinational companies they run. It is that great economic power that causes these actors to have such an impact on the political business that they can lobby very heavily and weigh very heavily. We now have a new kind of trade treaty. We are now going one step further than the type of trade agreements we concluded five years ago. This step forward is to give those already very strong economic powers the opportunity to be involved in new legislation before parliaments, the people's elected representatives, are able to deal with it. It is called regulatory cooperation. In that relationship there are administrations on the one hand. For us, this is the European Commission, including the people of DG Trade; these people are absolute believers, who do not doubt for a second the beneficial effects of the ultra-liberalisation of free trade that we have experienced. On the other hand, there are the representatives of the big companies in the two blocks, in this case Canada and Europe. They are given the opportunity to give their opinion on the regulations that are in the process of being adopted. Neither the European Parliament nor the parliaments of the European Member States are aware of this. We shall have no vision of that. That's what's gonna happen. That's the first mechanism that's gonna make it worse. Colleagues said just now that these treaties are not just about economics, they also include social standards and environmental standards. That is correct, colleagues, but there is a world of difference. All economic rules are enforceable. All the other rules, the social soil standards I call them, are not enforceable. So there is an uneven development. The economic power of the major economic actors is increasing. Social standards, which are not enforceable, will be the end result of competition created by large multinational companies between Member States, setting the Member States against each other and so on. It goes even further. That is why the debate on who has the right to judge whether standards have been respected in the event of a dispute is so important. We are all legislators. We all know that the laws we make can never encompass the full reality and that we must therefore also be able to count on an independent judge who weighs the interests of the various parties and who can take a decision. There is indeed an improvement in the situation here, as I said in committee. We come from the ordinary arbitration over the ISDS to the ICS. But, colleagues, this is and remains a very business-friendly body. You can be sure: even if the ICS gets there, it will be composed of people who have very close links with the large industry. Do we give them the final judgment on disputes that very often arise from complaints from companies that say they are hindered in their business and make less profit by some rule? We don't do that, do we? Colleagues, if we want to defend the general interest, we will not give them that judgment, not even to the ICS, and certainly not to the ISDS. Colleagues, this is really something to be very worried about. I will give you one more figure before I come to the conclusion of my first point. The Global Wealth Databook of 2017 by Credit Suisse, certainly not a left-wing organisation, calculated that between September 2016 and September 2017 82 percent of the capital growth in that year went to the top 1%. Between September 2016 and September 2017, there was global capital growth and 82% of it went to the top 1 %. These figures come from Credit Suisse and not from the study service of the sp.a. or from some left-wing think tank. The lower 50 % did not see an increase in its power during that period. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, my conclusion is that we cannot continue with globalisation as it is today. We cannot agree to the acceleration or deepening of trade agreements, as they are presented to us here. Some blame us for being against the Canadians. I was also very opposed to TTIP. I don't know if this agreement will ever come back. I have not yet read a summary of the European agreement with Japan, but I would be surprised if this were not in the same bed as TTIP and CETA. We need other free trade agreements. Some blame me for being a cryptoprotectionist. Ladies and gentlemen, those who believe that we are doing a good job of driving free trade down the throats of the world, I call on you to think further. I refer, for example, to President Obama. In his farewell speech to the United Nations, he said that a world in which 1% of humanity controls as much as the 99% of others can never be a stable world. I'd like to ask you to think for a moment. There are several reasons why there has been a decline in confidence in politics over the last 10 to 20 years. I will not go into the other elements that are involved. I am convinced that the advance of populism, perhaps Eurosceptic populism, is reflected in the determination of those who are left behind, who see the accumulation of that incredible wealth in the hands of few, while they are lagging behind. Trump feeds on those masses of American voters who feel left behind. There are several reasons, but this is also true in Europe, perhaps even more so because people have seen that the banks that caused the crisis, which caused them to get into trouble, have been saved with public money, while they have been left to their own devices. First of all, I would like to warn against the way in which we are organizing globalisation. Continue with the kind of free trade agreements such as CETA, as TTIP and, I fear, as with Japan, we are heading straight for the wall. For that reason alone, my group will not approve the Treaty tomorrow. I come to my second point. It will probably turn out to be a vain hope, but I hope some of you start to doubt. I asked a question in committee. We are asked if we have anything against Canada. No, of course I have nothing against Canada. It is a beautiful country with a fairly good foreign policy, I have no problem with that. But also in Canada there is an elite who wants this kind of treaties. These treaties do not defend the interests of ordinary Canadians, but of the 1% at the top in Canada. We are told that they are very close to us with their standards and values. Yes, that's good, but if they're so close to us, why don't we trust the European and Canadian legal systems as they are now? Why do we have to set up a separate ICS? I did not receive an answer to that question. Maybe the Minister will answer it later. If there are interpretation disputes in the relations between, for example, Belgian and Canadian companies, why can't they be dealt with by a Canadian or a European court? I haven't gotten a good response to that yet. A second element may be less important, but this text actually asks Parliament for a blank cheque. We are being asked to approve the text tomorrow, and if the European Court of Justice gives its ruling soon, it will be amended. Colleagues, I am sorry, but giving power of attorney to the government for something as fundamental as resolving differences of interpretation that can often be about billions would be difficult even if I were a member of the majority. There is a third and final point. I find it unbelievable that Belgium, the state that itself raised the problem at the European Court of Justice, does not even have the European loyalty or courtesy to wait for that Court to give a ruling. I can't do that. We are among the founding members of the European Union and we all know that this European Union is built on a series of cornerstones. One of these cornerstones is the European Court of Justice. The current 28 Member States accept that if interpretations of European treaties or European regulations are to be given, they must give full confidence to the European Court of Justice. Well, that is being trampled on here. Colleagues, it gets even more painful. Alexander Van der Bellen, the President of Austria, who is currently President of the European Union, has said that he will not sign until the European Court of Justice has ruled. There is therefore more European federal loyalty in a Member State that has joined the EU for a long time after us. I would be ashamed if I, as a Belgian government, were not to wait for the ruling of the European Court of Justice. For the sake of completeness, I would like to sum up the other reasons that I have developed in committee. The third reason why we are calling for a vote against is because the liberalisation of services will take place on the basis of a negative list. We believe that this will create a lot of uncertainty. Moreover, the precautionary principle, a foundation of European health and safety legislation, is not adequately protected. The possibility of taking measures to avoid a new financial crisis with all its consequences is weakened by the rules on the liberalisation of the financial sector in the Treaty. We will also argue against it because, according to an independent academic study by Tufts University, CETA would, in my knowledge, destroy even jobs in a worst case scenario. The agro-industry, which dominates the North American market, claims that it regards European sanitary standards as technical barriers and wants to use CETA to eliminate them. Competition from the much larger Canadian industrial companies will be strong in Europe. I assume colleagues, like me, that you received an e-mail at the beginning of this week from a representative of the milk industry in Belgium. I admit I'm not at home in those circles. I know the working environment much better. In any case, the representative is not alone, because the agricultural sector, particularly in Wallonia, is very concerned about the consequences of the Treaty. If we ask you, and we have done so several times, what the situation is with regard to the economic interest, then you always refer to a number of offensive interests that we might experience. However, I do not hear anything about the defensive interests. If the boundaries are opened up more and more and so the social soil standards are brought down even more, how can those involved generate an income? This has not been considered for a second, let alone for measures to help these people during the transitional period. For these eight reasons, we will vote against the Treaty tomorrow with conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u68	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, unlike the previous speaker, we will vote for CETA tomorrow. We are indeed very much in favour of it, because we believe it offers an advantage to our exporting companies. The committee's hearings clearly showed that the greatest potential for growth for exports is outside the EU. So, as a small, open economy, we need to make a full effort on this. Moreover, geopolitics is currently very interesting to strengthen ties with Canada. The last G7 summit made that clear once again. Finally, in this way, we reaffirm our absolute confidence in a strong European trade policy. We are aware that the approval in this Parliament will not lead to the final Belgian ratification of CETA. For this we need the approval of our Walloon and French-speaking colleagues, but it would certainly be a very clear signal from Parliament. Although some Länder are opposed, Belgium remains committed to promoting international trade. For my party, it is important that the Convention will make it easier for SMEs in particular to export and find new markets. The major obstacle for our companies is the so-called non-tariff barriers and, above all, the different standards that products have to meet. Products from our companies may comply with the strict European rules, but that does not guarantee that other countries will allow them to enter their markets. Sometimes it is simply a matter of the type of test used. For example, the EU and Canada can both require a substance to be flame retardant, but it may be too much good if two different tests or certificates are used to establish this. Multinationals already have the necessary resources and manpower to ensure that their products meet all the different standards, but our SMEs do not have that bandwidth. Such agreements, which agree on more cooperation on product standards, are therefore essential for our SMEs, the backbone of our Belgian and Flemish economy, to export more and more easily. CETA is often referred to as a gift to multinationals. We have just heard from Mr Van der Maelen. That claim seems completely out of place to me. It is not the multinationals, it is our small exporters who need the treaty. SMEs account for 70% of employment throughout the country, including those with difficulties in our society. For them, such treaties mean a lot less red tape and therefore lower thresholds for exporting outside Europe. Colleagues, I would also like to take this opportunity to regret the level of the debate on CETA. There was plenty of disinformation in the discussions in the committee and outside, in newspapers and other parliaments. Feelings were being played out without any consideration whatsoever of what is really in the treaty texts. In this way, we are creating unsubstantiated panic among the population with potentially very adverse consequences for our economy and the international appearance of our country. The best proof of the unfoundedness of the criticism is the fact that the Walloon Government did agree to the signature, after having received a text that simply explains and explains the original text, without changing it even a letter. That the PS suddenly began to communicate that le nouveau CETA est arrivé, was completely grotesque. CETA works and this is clearly demonstrated in our trade figures. The Convention entered into force provisionally in October of last year. Our trade to Canada grew by as much as 30% last year compared to 2016. I have, for the record, looked up the detailed quarterly trade figures. If we compare exports to Canada in the last quarter of 2016 with exports in the last quarter of 2017, we see an increase of as much as 76 %. It is clear that our exports certainly benefit from CETA and exports are very important for employment in our country. It is clear to me, therefore, that, by delaying CETA and losing unnecessary time, the PS and by enlargement, the opposition as a whole merely provided a standstill in terms of unemployment and curtailed the growth of our SMEs. In short, once again the left-wing opposition chooses to organize unemployment, while the government is working hard to create jobs. I look forward to the adoption of the Treaty tomorrow in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u69	Mr President, first of all I will make a technical remark. It was pointed out by Mr Miller as well as by Mr Vandenput that CETA was responding to a geopolitical issue of the moment. It is true that between the moment that CETA was negotiated, when it was signed and now soon to be ratified, the situation has changed fundamentally. We weren't in a post-Brexit period. We were obviously not in this horrifying post-election period of President Trump, which we have been regretting every day for several months. But history has its reasons. CETA was not negotiated by Justin Trudeau, the current Canadian Prime Minister. Yes, the various attempts to accommodate the Walloon government have been negotiated by Justin Trudeau's team, but the general philosophy of CETA has been negotiated by Stephen Harper, who is, Mr. Miller, the worst consumer ever known across the Atlantic before Trump. Go see what Stephen Harper did or what he said at the time. You will realize that this is not the model of openness or progress that is expected. That's my first point. My second point concerns the specific system dedicated to multinationals called ICS (International Court System), which, of course, is not the ISDS system. It is an evolution, if not an improvement, in relation to an arbitral tribunal that involved expensively paid lawyers on either side of a table and three. It's not that, but it still remains a specific system for multinationals. This is what has been denounced, among other things, by the Association of German Judges. It's not nothing. Let it be clear, ladies and gentlemen, before this court, that multinationals will be able to drag states, but not the other way round! Is this compatible with European law, the Treaty of Lisbon? The Court of Justice of the European Union is in the process of determining this at the request of our Foreign Minister. This request for opinion has been submitted, but we do not wait for this opinion to ratify and vote, whereas it is our country itself that has submitted this request for opinion. It's very special. It's pretty cavalry! In committee, a number of colleagues, as well as the Minister for Foreign Affairs, said that those who opposed this free trade treaty were on the side of the Salvini-type populists or the far right of Austria, opposed to these free trade treaties, which, however, through the exchange of goods, create peace on earth. I caricature, but that's more or less what was said. I recall that the right-wing and far-right majority in Austria has ratified CETA in Parliament. But President Alexander Van der Bellen, who came from the Green Party, refused to sign it until the Court of Justice of the European Union had delivered its opinion on the matter within six to eight months. It's a decision of common sense. As the depositary of the request for an opinion, we too could have at least waited for that opinion before ratifying this important treaty. Ms. Grovonius said that the treaty assent bill did not respect the letter and spirit of the intra-Belgian agreement between you, Minister, and the then Walloon government, and more specifically its minister-president, Mr. Magnette. I'm wrong with him and I'm right with you. The PS may have been fooled by your immense ability to ensure that the intra-Belgian agreement provides for the submission of a request for an opinion to the Court of Justice of the European Union, but that it does not provide - and it is a very great imprudence on the part of the then Minister-President - for you to have to wait for the Court's opinion to table this bill approving the CETA. You have been subtle and, unfortunately, you have respected the spirit and the letter of the intra-Belgian agreement. However, I maintain that it is particularly unpleasant, ineffective and even dishonest not to wait until the opinion of the highest European court before ratifying CETA. My third point relates to prior regulatory cooperation, which causes much less ink to flow than the system of arbitral tribunals. Several experts and stakeholders from civil society have explained this very well in committee: this prior regulatory cooperation concerns the ability of the European Commission and the Canadian government, before proceeding to establish a rule established in Canada by the provinces - regardless of whether it is through a law, an order, an order or an order - to give their officials, who will not be elected, the opportunity to consult on the establishment of a standard. I have heard in committee that it will be a matter of discussing the size of the plugs, the content of the bottles or the fat content of certain fish that would be traded across the Atlantic... This will also be about these standards. But also those relating to the emission of vehicles or those of the chemical industries; these will also be the various social protections that may be required in certain states, regions, provinces, etc. Our standards are all that and not just the size of the plugs. Prior regulatory consultation means giving unelected officials the ability to negotiate in an alcove, in a dark room, where there are no Canadian and European social partners or environmental associations. Decisions can be made there without any democratic legitimacy. Of course, Mr Miller, it will then be up to the various parliaments to legislate, but on the basis of a regulatory consultation that has already taken place in a secret place. This is unacceptable! You are absolutely right to say that CETA, in any of its provisions, will not prevent States or the European Union from legislating. But through prior regulatory cooperation and this chamber of endorsement process, CETA will guide a whole series of decisions that will then be taken democratically. It is a form of representation between our democratic expression, our ability to legislate, and where the decision is actually taken. The reason I'm talking about this is because Canada is obviously a country to which we are immensely close. It is probably the extra-European country to which we Europeans, but perhaps especially we Belgians, are the closest. That's right. I recall that we voted in favour of the Treaty of Friendship which was sealed and signed on the same day as CETA. We also consider Canadians to be friends. But Canada also has a range of specificities, such as the exploitation of gas and oil from bituminous rocks, i.e., a process for extracting oil and gas that is particularly harmful to the environment. Canadian multinationals are extremely active in this type of energy, which is a fossil energy that is particularly destructive of the Canadian environment, but also goes against the interests of Canadian Aboriginal people. Justin Trudeau may be the most sympathetic Prime Minister in the world, and I think he is, but Canada's economic, environmental and industrial interests are contrary to our European values. This means, for example, that under CETA European companies will be able to invest in the oil gas sector, because Europe has no hydrocarbon raw materials. Anyway, she doesn't have much. That's what's behind CETA. It is these Belgian or European big business people who defend CETA. The idea, for example, of developing a specialized oil port in Zeebrugge, to import hydrocarbons extracted in this totally anti-environmental way, is that which is behind it. The signing of CETA is the door open to all these mechanisms, which first and foremost value the interests of large multinational companies active in these sectors, to the detriment of standards, since standards are seen as obstacles to the development of this type of specific activity. I talked about energy. Now, let's talk about agriculture. The European and Canadian agricultural models are fundamentally different. Agriculture is constantly changing in Europe. The size of farms tends to increase in Europe, while small family farming structures tend to disappear. However, this situation is nothing in relation to Canadian agri-food and agriculture, composed of very large spaces controlled by multinational agri-food companies. As a result, one tonne of wheat produced in Canada is immeasurably cheaper thanks to extreme mechanization and the presence of very large fields, compared to one tonne of European wheat manufactured in accordance with European rules, imperfect, but fundamentally different rules, landscape and peasant structure. On this issue, I do not mean the liberals and promoters of CETA in relation to the impact that CETA will one day have on European agriculture. In fact, CETA creates a market which resembles the European Union, i.e. where goods, goods and services can be exchanged, but without the regulation of the European Union. On the contrary, rather than a regulatory framework, namely our current directives and regulations, the CETA provides for two mechanisms, the International Court System (ICS), the arbitral tribunal reserved for multinationals, and the prior regulatory consultation which aims precisely the opposite, namely the possibility one day, later, in a few months, in a few years, of diminishing the regulatory capacity of States. Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have never been able to travel so many kilometres across Wallonia and Brussels. I counted the number of meetings before coming and, in rereading my agenda, I found that I went to 52 civic debates or meetings in communal councils, in local associations, among trade unions, employers' associations, by train, by bike and by car. Yes, by car, minister, because it's very difficult to get back from Ciney at 11:30. Because of the government's budget cuts in the SNCB budget, no night train could bring me back from Ciney to Brussels! It must be acknowledged, Mr Minister, that the debate that took place in the press, but also and above all in civil society, is quite unprecedented. It allowed everyone, especially you and us who participated in citizen meetings, to better explain, certainly with different appreciations, what was behind CETA. It was a positive element. Unfortunately, today we are coming to the end of this process. Democratically, a majority in this Parliament is in favour of the ratification of this CETA. The democratic rule must be respected. Nevertheless, the thousands of people I have met are blurred and their opinions are still ignored. So I must note that you have won and we have lost.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u70	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you should know from the outset that, as we have done in committee, the cdH group will abstain from this bill approving CETA since it is under this acronym that this economic agreement is best known. I am speaking here before you because my colleague, Georges Dallemagne, is on a mission abroad. He has demonstrated in committee the need for this abstention, in more than one way. Having said that, I would like to put this agreement in a global geopolitical context that we are facing today and that has become considerably darker in the last two years. Threats are growing. Instability is increasing. The world is fragmented. The Transatlantic Alliance is challenged by the American President. The withdrawal from one another and the rejection of the other are increasingly present to the heart of our democracies. In the face of all this, the European project itself is also in danger. We see it, indeed, day after day. The Trump administration is no longer content with threats or provocations against the European Union, Canada or its other historical allies. It has taken action on climate, trade, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, Iran's nuclear power, support for Brexit, the European Union as an enemy, the G7, NATO and Russia. I do not know if the number of examples is exhaustive, but in any case it is significant. Following the threats and tariff decisions of the Trump administration, one can even speak of a start of trade war between the United States and its closest partners. For its part, Canada is under attack by the U.S. administration in the context of the renegotiation of NAFTA, this well-known free trade agreement imposed by the United States alone. You mustn't be naive. Beyond his eccentricities and outrages, I believe that the American President is methodically applying a built-up and coherent doctrine in favour of a dangerous, nationalistic and identity-based political project that is contrary to our vision of society and the world. He assumes and claims his contempt against international institutions and against any agreement that is not only to his advantage. The same American president does not hide his will to dislocate any form of global regulation or his willingness to disband the international organisations that promote it and dismantle the European Union beyond the Brexit that he has supported and continues to support. Therefore, in the face of all these bad winds and the drifts of the US President, it is in Europe's interest to seek strong partnerships with allies who share as widely as possible its world view and values. The same countries also defend and respect multilateralism, international law, regulated globalization and protected social and environmental rights. Today, however, there is no partner closer to European values than Canada. It is with him that we can consider building a multilateral international order based on rules and respectful of each of its partners. It is with him that it is still possible to negotiate, improve existing agreements and gradually move towards regulating globalization for human development. Therefore, one may wonder whether this is the right time to send a message of distrust against our Canadian partner, through a possible vote of rejection of CETA. To ask the question is to answer it. We will not object to this draft assent decree. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u71	I was a Walloon parliamentarian for fourteen years. It takes time for me to adapt! Mr. Miller can testify. I agree with you, it is a bill that is assenting to! Excuse me if I made that mistake using an inappropriate term. We simply cannot ignore the stakes I have just listed, nor the worrying developments of the last two years, and act as if these threats did not exist. In this context, the message sent by a negative vote would be incomprehensible and disastrous symbolically. So we're not going to oppose this bill – you see, I'm making it quick! – but at the moment we cannot vote in favour of it either. CETA has defects...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u72	Mr de Lamotte, Mr Hellings wishes to interrupt.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u73	Mr de Lamotte, you are our third CDH interlocutor on CETA. Unfortunately, Mrs Matz, who had spoken in the general debates, had health problems and had not been able to follow the file. Mr Dallemagne had defended the point of view which you have just defended but which was totally opposed to what Mrs Matz had previously defended in this Chamber. I'm sorry to run into you, I know you're the water carrier. Nevertheless, there is a complete volte-face of your political party to CETA, between what was announced at the time of the negotiation of the intra-Belgian agreement between the Walloon government, of which your party was already a member, and what you are telling us today. You rely on geopolitical changes to justify this change of attitude. I recall what I have already said in my speech. This CETA was fully negotiated under Stephen Harper, Conservative, not Justin Trudeau. The objectives of deregulation that I have just explained in my speech were those and remain the same. Geopolitical change is helping you explain this change in attitude today, but it is taking over the incredible interventions not only of Mrs Matz in the House, but also of Mrs Simonet in the Walloon Parliament. Put them in touch with what you have just said, especially on the agricultural dimension and impact. I know that your voters are particularly sensitive to all the initiatives that could be taken at the international level and that could have an impact on the rural fabric and rural life. I'm sorry to say it's a real renunciation! I was talking earlier about the pain felt by the people we met by thousands during our debates in the villages and towns of Wallonia and Brussels. But I am also thinking of the pain of your voters in the face of this deeply inhumane volte-face.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u74	Mr Hellings, I think it might be useful if you listened to me until the end. I will, of course, meet this argument. On the other hand, I assume that you are aware that there have been changes in the text, particularly with regard to the arbitral tribunal, and that there have been some suggestions. In addition, two years went by between the first version and this version. I suggest you let me go through with it so we can discuss it. We will not oppose this bill, but we cannot vote in favour of it at this time. The CETA does indeed have shortcomings, gaps and shortcomings. It is an international agreement based on intense and lengthy negotiations. And, like any such agreement, it is a compromise for which each of the parties has had to accept some of the requirements of the other and make concessions. Nevertheless, the agreement is ambitious and the Canadian partner has been open to European demands, including with a view to improving the text in the future. However, there is still a great deal of uncertainty and concern: that of the compatibility with European law of the ICS arbitration mechanism provided for by CETA, which succeeded ISDS, which was even more criticized. We were in that context when you were talking about history, Mr. Hellings! This is so much an unknown that on 6 September 2017, Belgium officially submitted to the Court of Justice of the European Union, a request for an opinion on this compatibility of the ICS with the European Treaties, in the context of the procedures for ratification of the CETA. This request for an opinion followed a long and legitimate struggle by civil society, which had drawn political attention to CETA, to arbitration mechanisms, and to the fundamental issues surrounding the negotiation and ratification of this new kind of trade agreement. Some political parties, including my own, had decided to relay many of these concerns while raising our own concerns about CETA. It is in this context that after several weeks of crisis and negotiations, on 27 October 2016, concrete and significant progress was achieved thanks to the perseverance of our negotiators in the Walloon Region. It must be recalled and stressed that, thanks to this mobilisation and perseverance, CETA has been considerably improved and guarantees have been obtained. I am thinking, for example, of the adoption by the European Union of the common interpretative instrument attached to CETA. This legally binding declaration made it possible to clarify many points and to answer several legitimate questions raised by certain provisions of the Agreement. I am not going to list them to you, since the debate has already taken place in committee and my colleague has done it. The other joint statements also provided better safeguards, as was the case with the European Commission's statement on mutuals and the compulsory health care insurance system. Again, for the CDH, Canada is a partner with whom balanced exchanges of social and environmental standards must be possible. Moreover, they are beneficial to our country and, in particular, to Wallonia – since you mentioned it in your speech, Mr Hellings. So why do you abstain, not a positive vote? Simply because before ratifying, we should have waited for the opinion requested by Belgium at the Court of Justice in Luxembourg. Indeed, the issues relating to the arbitral mechanism, its possible implications and the risk it may represent have still not been satisfactorily resolved. In the view of many observers, this is a fundamental point that must be clarified before we go further. Since the opening of this folder, this is the position of the cdH. Moreover, I would like to recall that the concerns about the arbitration mechanisms were so serious and argued that they convinced the European Commission. In fact, it took exceptional advantage of the legal-linguistic review period of CETA in 2015-16 to propose institutional adjustments to the Canadian government to improve the judicial system of investments. The ICS was set up to replace the private arbitration procedure originally planned, but heavily criticized. In addition, as part of this review, Canada also expressed its willingness to work alongside the European Union to create and develop a Multilateral Investment Court. This is a project that is still under development but which would represent real progress, a positive and additional step, after moving from ISDS to ICS. In view of the questions, concerns and many uncertainties raised by the development of an unprecedented mechanism, the CDH had obtained, in October 2016, in accordance with the first requirement of the Walloon Parliament, that this future arbitral mechanism – which will have to evolve – be submitted by the Federal Government to the Court of Justice of the European Union in order to ensure its compatibility with the European treaties. The government formally complied with its commitment on 6 September 2017 and submitted a request for an opinion to the Court of Justice of the European Union. Whatever happens, this opinion will inevitably have a significant impact on CETA, but also on other draft treaties and on the future of this type of arbitration mechanism. It therefore seemed logical to wait a few more months to hear the Court's opinion on this fundamental issue and to vote in full knowledge of the text. Unfortunately, this is not the way the government has followed. Indeed, on 8 May last, the Minister for Foreign Affairs tabled on the Bureau of the House this bill approving the CETA without waiting for the opinion of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Mr. Minister, it would have been rather logical, and much more respectful of the Court, to wait for the Court's answer to the question you asked yourself a few months ago. As far as we are concerned, we continue to believe that until the Court of Justice of the European Union has ruled on this question formulated by Belgium, it will not be possible for various Belgian parliaments to make an informed decision on such an important subject. Therefore, preferring to remain faithful to these convictions and consistent with ourselves, we requested and obtained that Belgium seek the opinion of the European Court of Justice on a fundamental point of CETA. Pending the answer, it is not possible to speak validly about the bill before us today. It is a pity, but by filing this text too soon, without accompanying it with the Court's reply, the government is preventing us from ruling. We could have voted in his favour, but the government, I repeat, is preventing us from doing so. It would have been better to do things in order: to wait for the answer to the question we have put, and then to table the bill in the House. We could then have discussed it properly with all the information, including the Court's opinion on the ICS. That is not the case, and it will justify our abstention in tomorrow's vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u75	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the decision of the Council of the European Union adopted in October 2016 and following the vote of approval by the European Parliament in February 2017, the CETA Treaty, as regards the exclusive competence of the European Union, has applied provisionally since 21 September 2017. The question raised today is whether it is desirable to grant consent to CETA before the Court of Justice of the European Union has delivered its opinion on its accounting and that of the so-called ICS mechanism with the European Treaties and, in particular, Article 218.11 TFEU. In response to several written questions, which you answered in the last quarter of 2017, Minister, you confirmed that on 7 September 2017, Belgium submitted to the Court of Justice of the European Union a request for an opinion on the compatibility with the European Treaties of the judicial system of investments (ICS). I would point out that this request for an opinion is one of the essential elements of the declaration of the Kingdom of Belgium to the Committee of Permanent Representatives to the European Union (COREPER) of 27 October 2016, after consultation with all the federated entities of the country. Since the Court of Justice had been seized by the Belgian State on 7 September 2017 and the opinion was not expected at the earliest until the first quarter of 2019, one might wonder why the government wished to force the debate in Parliament on the law of assent, whereas waiting for a few more months would not present reckless legal risks. On the contrary, it would either give the government an argument that would remove any doubt as to the compatibility with European law of the exceptional judicial mechanism envisaged in the CETA Treaty, or, on the contrary, it would obviously force the parties to review a mechanism in breach of European law, if that were the opinion of the Court of Justice. While the request for an opinion is not legally binding, this request for an opinion has been the subject of a fairly broad consensus in the political world. We know at the end of what events and difficulties! Undoubtedly, I would almost say that this agreement is a sound concept of federal loyalty. It is difficult to understand that the federal government does not give first priority to the opinion of the Court of Justice before submitting its draft assent to our assembly. Indeed, we have serious legal doubts as to the compatibility of the CETA provisions on the establishment of this judicial system with European law. We have also requested a consultation with a law firm specialising in European law. This study has highlighted fundamental points that raise doubts about the compatibility of CETA with European Union law. I'm listing them. Firstly, there is the breakdown of the equality of citizens before the law, the law, which is one of the key elements of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, an integral part of the Constitution of the European Union. According to the chapter on investments of CETA, foreign investors of one Contracting State would have privileged access to an external court - as has already been recalled in the course of the discussions - against the acts of another State, whereas this remedy will not be open to domestic investors of the State in question. Foreign investors thus benefit from more favourable treatment than domestic investors throughout the European Union. This more favourable treatment will therefore benefit Canadian investors only. Second argument: this parallel jurisdiction in the courts of the Member States may be used against any measure, in the broadest sense, i.e. both a legislative, regulatory or administrative act or even a national court decision which the foreign investor considers to be contrary to the rights conferred on it by the CETA. The third argument is that the primacy of European law, a fundamental element of the Treaty governing the functioning of the European Union, is called into question because the investment court has no obligation to refer questions of interpretation of European law to the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) when these questions are useful in resolving the dispute in question. It is well known that the Court of Justice has always remained fairly firm on the principle of the primacy and uniformity of the application of European law, and on its monopoly of interpretation. In this respect, I recall the decisions of the CJEU, or opinions, stating that the Member States have no right to submit to a court outside the Union which might have to deal with the interpretation of European law – this is the Mox case. Similarly, it is not acceptable for an external court to decide on the division of powers between Member States and Community bodies (always according to an opinion of the ECJ 1/91). The Court of Justice recalls that, with regard to the application of European law in matters determining a dispute before a court outside the Union, reference for a preliminary ruling to the ECJ must be guaranteed and respected. These are various opinions of the Court, notably an opinion of the Court of 18 April 2002 on the draft agreement on the creation of a common European airspace between the European Community and third countries, and other opinions which followed it; in particular an opinion of the Court of 8 March 2011 on the draft agreement - Creation of a unified system for the settlement of patent disputes; or the opinion of the Court of 18 December 2014 on the draft international agreement - Accession of the European Union to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. However, the Investment Court is a court external to the Union as it is constituted by the Contracting Parties through a designation by the Joint Committee of the Agreement. Its judgment shall be final and enforceable, unless an appeal is allowed on questions of law, which may be brought only before a body which shall be established within the same court external to the Union. The foreign investor will have direct access, without being required to exhaust domestic remedies. However, neither in the Treaty establishing the European Union nor in the case-law of the Court of Justice, there is a precedent which recognises an external court constituted by a trade and investment treaty, open to investors and capable of ruling, even implicitly or indirectly, on matters of European law. The Court of Justice of the European Union remains a pillar of European integration, based on the supremacy or primacy of European Union law, and on the sovereign interpretation of European Union law by its own courts, under the ultimate control of the Court of Justice. Of course, the Commission has endeavoured to exclude the Court of Justice from the application of CETA. Nevertheless, we believe that the Court of Justice should express reservations, if not a severe judgment, on this particular mechanism of special jurisdiction established by the draft Treaty, probably following the request for an opinion made by your Government, Mr Minister. When I say judgment, I'm talking about an appreciation, of course. For these reasons, it appears to us that the Court's prerogatives are not respected by the draft and that, consequently, we cannot accept the draft treaty as it stands, regardless of the debate, on the merits of promoting trade relations between States. This question of law, which is intended to preserve the achievements of European integration, and in particular the achievements which the Court of Justice guarantees, seems to us to be an essential issue which we cannot ignore in considering the bill before us. We cannot therefore vote on the bill as it stands.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no World Cynicism yet, otherwise the Blue Devil Didier Reynders would have every chance of winning the cup! Indeed, Minister, you are asking for the opinion of the European Court of Justice on the compatibility of CETA with the European treaties, which is expected by the beginning of 2019 and which, according to experts, will probably be negative. However, you laconically state that the government has never committed itself to waiting for this opinion before ratifying the CETA. Conclusion: this opinion was just a smokescreen to stifle critical voices that were widely heard. In any event, the PTB joins the broad front of civil society in its fight against CETA and rejects this fundamentally unbalanced agreement. Four critical axes are listed. First, our criticism relates to the mechanism for settling differences between investors: the Investment Court System (ICS). Despite some improvements made through social mobilization, the risks that this system poses to democracy are still real. For example, there is no obligation to exhaust national judicial channels before resorting to this "private" arbitration, as defined in the opinion of the Association of German Judges who refuse to recognize it as a public court. I rest on the question of the Director General of the European Bureau of Consumer Unions (BEUC), to which she has never received an answer: as everyone seems to repeat how good friends Belgium, Europe and Canada are, why should we need a parallel arbitration system? Second risk, before this court, an enterprise can assign States if they make a decision that could harm its profits. Companies will be able to oppose financial interests to the general interest. The ICS creates rights for businesses that are not and will not be granted to anyone else. Secondly, one criticism concerns the direct threat of CETA to public services. CETA's slogan is "Open the Markets". We are facing a fundamental change where the liberalisation of public services and services in general becomes the norm and regulation the exception, a dangerous precedent. As the representative of the Belgian mutual societies explained to us, the privatisation of social security is explicitly included in the CETA text. Germany is the only country to have included in its exemption list a total protection of its national social security system. Belgium had not done so. Indeed, a posteriori, once again, as a result of social pressure, Belgium has added some important protections in a series of CETA interpretative documents. But their binding legal force remains strongly contested. Counsel Annabelle's conclusion The Chamber of CMS DeBacker is very clear on this point: "Every time the interpretation is in contradiction with the Treaty, it is the Treaty that will have precedence." Our third criticism concerns the protection of social, environmental and democratic norms. CETA introduces the regulatory cooperation mechanism. In essence, a working group of business representatives will have to check whether new legislation is not in conflict with economic interests, and thus harmful to trade. The NGO CNCD-11.11.11 has made it clear to us how this mechanism, even if voluntary, will further increase the influence of companies in political decision-making, reduce the transparency of political decision-making, reduce democracy and the level of protection. This mechanism may help to reduce a range of standards of general interest (health, environmental, social) that are considered barriers to trade and free trade. Of course, CETA contains specific chapters on sustainable development, labour standards and environmental standards. But it must be noted that these chapters do not contain any binding provisions. Contrary to investors' rights, these social and environmental standards are therefore not enforceable. Our latest criticism is about U.S. subsidiaries in Canada. Four-fifths of U.S. companies have subsidiaries in Canada. As a result of CETA, any of these subsidiaries would have immediate access to the European market. Of course, CETA requires a true link between the company and Canada. But what does that mean, "a true bond"? And most importantly, who's going to control this? Today, we are already unable to control the tens of thousands of bogus companies trying to circumvent legislation. The conclusion is clear: CETA risks being the Trojan horse for US multinationals. Minister, in short, the people do not want this treaty. In Belgium and Europe, there have been impressive mobilizations. It's really starting to become your government's official anthem. But no, Minister, it's not because they didn't understand CETA or because they confuse CETA with TTIP. People do not want these treaties because they understand very well that they serve only the interests of large multinationals to the detriment of European citizens as well as Canadians. Minister, in this regard, do us a favor. Do not repeat once again, as Mr. Miller has done again, this doubtful argument that "if we do not reach an agreement with Canada, I do not see who we could still do it with." The question is not about the European Union's attitude towards Canada, but about the people's attitude towards multinationals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u77	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank all the groups for the debate they have held, not only during this plenary session but also in committee. A lot of hearings took place, a lot of questions were asked and there were many other modalities for a thorough debate on a possible treaty. I would like to thank some groups for their support for the Treaty. It concerns the majority of Parliament, according to what I have seen. That is the right way to get an approval. I want to talk about some of the elements in the file. Firstly, there has been an in-depth debate for several years. Negotiations started in 2004 and a real mandate for the European Commission followed in 2009. Negotiations were then conducted and a first agreement followed in October 2013. The publication was published at the end of 2014. The signatures were placed in 2016, after which the entry into force came into force in 2017. I would just like to point out that the discussions were very long and that many different actors were involved. I would like to make it clear at the outset that listening has been particularly important. I believe that we have never multiplied the number of hearings and direct contacts, both at European and Belgian level. The Belgian Government has organised meetings with all the organisations which have wished to express their views on the subject. I have always made the difference between ideological oppositions to free trade, which I can understand, sometimes very political oppositions that have manifested themselves in majorities and oppositions according to times and places, and legitimate concerns that have been raised by a number of actors. These concerns were very much present in the agricultural world or when we discussed arbitration and dispute resolution procedures between investors and States. On agriculture, we have had many meetings with representatives of the agricultural sector. In the end, we did not just ask for an evaluation of the annual consequences of such a convention. We have also requested a cumulative analysis of the possible effects of different treaties, not only with Canada but also with Mexico, with Mercosur and others in the coming years. As regards arbitration, Belgium decided at the end to seek the opinion of the Court of Justice of the European Union. With regard to the more specific issues raised during the debates, I would like to return to some of them. First of all, I would like to point out that we have followed up on the opinion of the Council of State on the text of the draft. As suggested in point 9.1 of the Council of State's opinion, the common interpretative instrument and unilateral statements made on behalf of one or more EU Member States or institutions in the context of the adoption of the Council's decision to authorize the signing of the Agreement on behalf of the European Union have been added to the draft law as tabled in the House of Representatives. In point 9.2 of the opinion, the Council of State suggested that Article 2 of the draft law should be supplemented so as to give express consent to the common interpretative instrument. You will note that this suggestion does not refer to unilateral statements made on behalf of one or more EU Member States or institutions in the context of the adoption of the Council decision to authorise the signing of the agreement on behalf of the EU. Following the decision of the Council of State, the Bill of Consent was amended to expressly endorse the common interpretative instrument. The suggestion of the Council of State was therefore fully followed. There is, on the other hand, no basis for ratifying a unilateral declaration, since the declarations in question are not the subject of negotiations with Canada and the majority of the declarations have been made by individual Member States. Secondly, the Court of Justice of the European Union must take unilateral statements into account when interpreting the agreement. That is why we wish to stick to the amended text as it was following the opinion of the Council of State, incorporating the agreement itself and the interpretative act or instrument. There have been a number of questions about the government's willingness to now submit this ratification to the House before the European Court of Justice has delivered its opinion. First of all, I would like to remind you, as I did in committee and also publicly, that the federal government has never committed itself to waiting for this opinion in any way. This was stated formally and clearly as soon as the agreement was reached with the federated entities. Moreover, other entities have decided to make progress in ratification as well. There is no doubt about federal loyalty, I recalled. We have clearly given our sense of the need to move forward. It is a matter of progress, as more than ten other European Union states have already done. We are confident that we can trust the compatibility of the ICS with the European treaties. I refer first to the interpretation of the legal services of the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament. This public court, which is decided by both parties, is not asked to interpret European law, but to interpret the agreement exclusively. If we do not advance in the proceedings, there is a risk that, as in other agreements, the previous ISDS clauses will continue to apply. However, we wish to move forward with the current mechanism, which is already a major step forward for both partners, but also to continue the debate around the Multilateral Court. I am not going to explain in detail again – since this was done in committee – the Achmea judgment, but this is a completely different matter, since this decision concerned arbitration mechanisms between Member States of the European Union and did not involve third States. With regard to Austria, and this has already been mentioned in another intervention, the two chambers of CETA have already approved it. The two assemblers agreed to ratify the Convention. However, the President takes a different view and awaits the opinion to sign it. This is probably also due to internal political reasons in Austria. As far as regulatory cooperation is concerned, I would simply like to point out that this is voluntary cooperation. On a voluntary basis, two partners can work together to achieve regulation. It is always possible to take a decision within the government or in Parliament on a new regulation, without any brake on it. There is therefore no problem for one partner or another to adopt a new regulation and to enter into force. There is also a real will on the part of the European Commission to cooperate with civil society in this respect. Civil society will be consulted. I think it is very useful to repeat this in the evolution of possible regulation in Europe and in our country. I come to the text itself. As I recalled, negotiations have been completed since the end of 2013. The text remained unchanged. There was no discussion of the text. What was discussed were interpretation provisions. This debate took place not only in Belgium, but also with other states of the European Union and with the Canadian partner. That is what led to the interpretative instrument that was signed with a few days late – three if I remember correctly – in relation to the date set in the negotiations. I confirm that the text of the agreement has remained unchanged. We have tried to interpret a number of devices through the interpretative instrument. There have also been unilateral statements by a number of European States, including Belgium, but also by European institutions. With regard to the economic impact of CETA, there are developments. There is an increase of more than 30% in 2017 compared to 2016, with the largest increase in the fourth quarter, with the entry into force of CETA on 21 September 2017. In 2017, after Great Britain and Germany, Belgium was Canada's third EU partner, before France and other countries. That's pretty remarkable, isn't it? The Canadian figures of June 2018 confirm the trend. They show a remarkable increase in Canadian imports from Belgium by 41% since the entry into force of CETA. The figures refer to the period October 2017-May 2018. This is the highest figure in all European countries. For France this is 17%, for Spain 14 %, for Italy 12 %, for Germany 5 %. I repeat: Belgium 41 %. I would add that CETA is very important, not only for large companies, but also for many SMEs. At the request of the various Regions, economic missions were organized, including in Canada. As part of these economic missions, a very large number of small and medium-sized enterprises came to Canada to export directly to that country. I also recall that a very large number of small and medium-sized enterprises are obviously suppliers of larger groups that export to Canada. It should be noted – I will not go into the details of the analysis because it may lead us too far on the choices made by the various governments – that the most impressive figures probably come from Wallonia, with, according to the Awex website, an 118.3 per cent increase in exports to Canada between 2016 and 2017. It is true that this is essentially linked to a case in the transport sector, with a four-year contract of four billion euros which concerns – if the Awex correctly communicates the information – military equipment with as final recipient, when the equipment will be assembled, Saudi Arabia. I am therefore not sure that we can put this development decided under the previous Walloon government, as one of the elements emanating from the CETA itself. But it is useful to recall the figures because there is a lot of debate on sustainable development and on the ethical nature of relations within CETA. In any event, it is interesting to note that the largest export in recent years is mainly for military-oriented equipment, the end-user of which will be Saudi Arabia. Finally, I come to the more general evolution through what many have mentioned, namely geopolitics. In this area, we are now seeing a return to protectionism which is marked quite strongly. It was recalled through Brexit in the European Union or through the positioning of the new US administration. It is therefore important for the European Union to be able to enter into new partnerships around the world. By the way, we've been doing that for a few years. New partnerships have been established, not only with Canada, but also with Japan, the Treaty was just signed, Vietnam and Mexico. We are also negotiating with Mercosur, as we did with Columbia, Ecuador, Peru and a number of African countries. I am convinced that it is useful for the European Union to continue along this path, and we therefore call for a positive development in this area. Moreover, as a number of Members have already pointed out, Canada is so close to the European Union that it is impossible to think of an agreement with another partner without an agreement with Canada. Furthermore, in the discussions on other trade agreements, I intend to repeat systematically – for example, in committee, both on the benches of the majority and the opposition; but also by most of our European partners – that CETA is the best agreement the European Union has reached to date. I am therefore very surprised to see that it has been possible to approve many previous agreements, but now to reject the one which is considered to be the best it has ever concluded. This is true not only in terms of trade, but also in all aspects of sustainable development, where we share a number of commitments with Canada. I will conclude by thanking, of course, all those who have taken part in these many debates, as well as those who will support the ratification of this text. I must also make it clear once again that all possible exchanges with civil society actors have taken place. At one point, it is up to governments and parliaments to vote. This government did. He simply now requests that the House also take a decision, no more or no less. I think all the arguments have been exchanged. It is now a matter of taking a stand. The government has done so; I hope Parliament will do so too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u78	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u79	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3086/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3086/5) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u80	• 2 p.m. Gwenaëlle Grovonius cs (3086/6) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u81	Held: the vote on the amendment and Article 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u82	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 and 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u83	****** Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform you that, within two minutes, a meeting of the Committee on Naturalizations will begin in Room 3. It will be a very short meeting, to which it will have to be corrected. The meeting, which will last no more than 15 minutes, will be chaired by Lanjri.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u84	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Stéphane Crusnière, Philippe Blanchart.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u85	The External Relations Commission proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (2743/2) The Committee on External Relations proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (2743/2) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Mr. Flahaux referred to the written report. Mrs Grovonius, the debate has just taken place. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u86	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Wouter De Vriendt, Benoit Hellings, Jean-Marc Nollet, Kristof Calvo, Meyrem Almaci, Muriel Gerkens, Gilles Vanden Burre, Anne Dedry, Georges Gilkinet, Marcel Cheron.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u87	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3184/4) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3184/4) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. Mrs Grovonius refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u88	Mr President, I shall be brief. I have not been able to intervene in committee, but it is good to give our position for a moment. The present proposal for a resolution concerns an issue which has given us great alarm over the last few weeks, in particular the separation of children and their parents by the US government. The sound fragments we have heard and the images we have seen will be engraved in the memory of many. It is therefore logical that we should respond to this with a great deal of dismay and indignation. For us too, it is unacceptable for children to be separated from their parents. The text before us has been somewhat updated, but it is not because US President Trump already signed an executive order on 20 June, that would stop the practice and that the problem has been completely solved. It is important that we state clearly that we cannot agree to separating children from their parents. The resolution also states that the best interests of the child should always take precedence over the objectives of migration policy or administrative concerns. That is also our belief: children should never be the victims of their parents' decisions or used as a means to discourage people from coming to the United States or any country. In the light of this, it is important for us to put human rights, and in particular the rights of the child, first. The resolution will therefore receive our full support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u89	Mr President, my group will support this proposal because we are also convinced that the interests of the child should always take precedence. It must be pointed out that if we are to be moved about what is happening in the United States, we should also be moved about what the federal government is doing today, particularly with regard to closed centres. In Belgium, too, children will unfortunately find themselves locked up. If the interests of the child are to take precedence in the United States, it would be wise for him to take precedence here too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u90	Mr President, I would just like to make it clear that, for following up on the work, the government will implement the requests addressed to it regarding American positions. Only one point of the resolution that will be voted on tomorrow is out of date. This is the one for the Human Rights Council. Unfortunately, the United States has withdrawn. We are asked to insist that they do not withdraw, but the decision has already been taken. As far as the other two points are concerned, we will certainly take them with us. I think it is very useful to ask such a question to our American colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u91	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u92	The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place tomorrow. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u93	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Peter Dedecker and Mr Gilles Foret, rapporteurs, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u94	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the European regulation that you set up in this framework law, which protects privacy and personal data from any treatment that violates freedoms, has been hailed by international criticism. And because of this, we are at the time of the Internet networks, at a time when the data about us are stored, classified, processed, sold, exchanged, without our awareness or, in any case, without our consent. We are revealed, without knowing it, except when a particularly abusive use comes to put a grain of sand in the mechanics of our lives. Resounding scandals have moved the general public, such as the use of files for electoral or commercial purposes. That is why the European Parliament has insisted that data processing must be designed to serve humanity. No more, no less. That is why we considered it necessary to impose a genuine debate in committee on the framework law. The request for urgency on your part seemed indecent and unacceptable to us. The project was discussed before it was deposited with a few stakeholders, and it was clearly subject to questionable bargaining within the government. We would have wanted him to pass to Parliament as a letter to the post office. Of course, that is something we regret. In fact, we did well to take a little time, as the expert hearing improved a text that was widely challenged by the Council of State and the Privacy Commission. And then, by insisting and arguing, some of our amendments were able to force the door of the majority, like the very important one organising a way of appeal against the decisions of the COC, the police control body. I am certainly not going to do the technical debate here. It's already happened. But I know that the report of the proceedings will allow many associations, experts and lawyers to unravel the sons of this complex law. And this is a fundamental criticism: the complexity of your project. The "war wars" within the government have led to the protection of the citizen not by a data protection agency, which would be a real counter-power, but by an assembly of data protection agencies: four for the federal and one for each federated entity, which makes a lot, Mr Secretary of State. Another criticism is the lack of sanctions for administrative authorities. It's just amazing. There is an impressive number of data that are processed by public authorities, sometimes in spite of common sense or in disregard of privacy. And there are no sanctions. As Professor Emeritus of Law Philosophy of the University of Liège, Lucien François, said: "No law, no protection." What's the point? For example, children's registration in the schools annexed to the mosques, which has covered the chronicle! When we asked the Minister of the Interior about the compatibility of this filing with the project, the answer was surreal: "It doesn't exist," he said! It was necessary to insist that an expert from the cabinet of Minister Geens come to give some explanations. It is certain that this is the kind of example that should be submitted to the Data Protection Agency. In any case, I repeat, there is no sanction. These are two examples of criticism that we have developed in committee! They do not prevent you from appreciating the work done, Mr. Secretary of State, as well as the work done by your team and your administration. You didn't spare your time, it's a fact! Citizens are now in distrust, and we must recall that. More than 80% of them fear theft or misuse of their data. It should be remembered that giants like Facebook were stolen a few years ago, not less than a billion data by cyber attacks, also shaking entire sections of our economies. Citizens are stigmatized in terms of reputation, see their lives shredded by the illegal processing of personal data without any verification or contextualization. Despite the weaknesses of the system put in place and because the game is worth it, we will not vote against this important project, but you will have understood the reservations we make.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u95	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data is in keeping with the GDPR, the European Directive 2016/680 and the law on the creation of the data protection authority, which was adopted here last November. The 867 pages of the bill and the numerous amendments reflect the complexity and technicality of the data universe, in which we evolve without always realizing it and which affects all sectors of activity, both private and public. The evolutions, or even technological revolutions, have literally transformed the production of data and our relationship with it in recent years; The frantic pace in which the data bring us requires permanent and appropriate legislative and organizational responses. The draft law provides, inter alia, for the organization of data protection in the police/justice sphere. It also provides for the supervision and protection of the consent of minors from the age of 13. It also provides for the special protection of data in the context of scientific research in archives and statistics, a special regime necessary to ensure the development of innovation and technology, but also to ensure that it does not become technologically dependent on other States which do not have the same scruples in data protection. While we can legitimately regret the multiplicity of data protection authorities, justified by the specialisation of each of them, we, as members of the House of Representatives and the supervisory authority, have an essential responsibility to ensure the readability and effectiveness of these authorities in the future, in order to protect the fundamental rights of our citizens. While it may seem unbalanced that the private and public sectors are not placed on an equal footing in terms of sanctions, it should be borne in mind that the supervisory authorities are far from being deprived of the possibility of malfunctions or abuses on the part of the public sector. They may indeed impose corrective measures. They can prohibit processing, change processing, remove databases, or impose organizational measures. On the other hand, it was essential that the possibility of sanctions be the same for similar activities offered by the public and private sectors. That is why amendments have been tabled to that effect. This bill is therefore a new step that must help ensure that our country is at the forefront of data protection and a leader in the responsible production and exploitation of data. Like Mr Laaouej, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the drafting of this complex legislation. I would also like to welcome the constructive spirit that led the discussions in committee, in particular with Mrs Onkelinx. There have been many hearings. These discussions resulted in numerous amendments that moved this bill up to 867 pages. In any case, the document I see on the Secretary of State's desk represents a great mass! However, the work has not been completed. It will now be necessary to ensure the proper implementation of these provisions. I believe that Parliament, as the supervisory authority over data protection authorities, will play a decisive role. As chairman of the Science and Technology Advisory Committee, I would like to take this opportunity, Mr President, to propose that the functioning of this committee be reviewed, which I think will be able to play an important role in the future in the implementation of this complex and technical legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u96	Mr President, at the outset, I would like to say that the atmosphere in committee meeting was extremely constructive, productive and effective. As much as I had some reluctance at the beginning of the bill, which, as some colleagues have already said, is very long and very complex, so much so, at the end of this democratic process, I am calmed. Of course, this subject is complex. We would have preferred a single body, namely the Data Protection Authority, as a forum of appeal for citizens who would have their privacy challenged by a company, by a private actor, by state actors. Either you made this choice. Thanks to the hearings we have heard, thanks to the exchanges held with the four ministers concerned, including yourself, Mr Secretary of State, I am reassured. The various amendments tabled by the majority or by the opposition, sometimes by the majority and the opposition together, are likely to show that we can build a path, albeit complex, but which implements an important regulation. Two people are at the root of this European movement, Jan Philipp Albrecht, the German Green MEP, and Neelie Kroes, the former Commissioner; they are people you know well for having frequented them in the European Parliament. Basically, we are finalizing their national work with your framework bill, Mr. De Backer. I am not going to go back to the substance because you have answered all the questions in committee. We will vote in favour of the bill. However, there is still a problem in this project, which we have had during our discussions at committee meetings and for which you are not politically responsible, Secretary of State. We held a debate yesterday in plenary on these benches on the related bill establishing a social security sector committee, the only sector committee that will remain. Mrs Gerkens also mentioned this. I was lucky enough to read the e-mail exchanges between the European Commission and the cabinet of Mrs De Block, Minister of Health, regarding the compatibility between the establishment of a single sectoral social security committee and the General Data Protection Regulation. On the occasion of this parliamentary debate, I would like to read the sentences that were exchanged in February 2018 and that clearly show that, as much as you were acutely aware of the strict application of the principles of the General Data Protection Regulation, both in its particular law, which should have been discussed at the same time, Mrs De Block has ignored, I dare say, under the pressure of Mr Robben, the warnings of the European Commission. Let us not forget that Mrs De Block's law – not yours, Mr De Backer – could be called into question by the European Commission, since there was this exchange of e-mails. I take up the e-mail dated 13 February 2018 at 12:24 p.m. and sent by the European Commission to Mrs De Block's office, with Mr Robben as a copy. The European Commission replied in English: "Therefore we are not in a position to confirm that such approach will be in compliance with the GDPR." And that is worse than that, since, a few days later, Mrs De Block's chief of staff replied himself by saying that he took note of the fact that the European Commission could not confirm that the proposed solution, namely the sectoral committees, was in agreement with the GDPR. It is extremely damaging to see that you have worked to put all the state agencies around the table, including those that manipulate ultra-sensitive data such as the State Security, the PNR body within the FPS Foreign Affairs, the army intelligence services, the police, and that you have managed to find a method, albeit complex, but that ensures that all Belgian citizens, with regard to the personal data that are manipulated by these police and security authorities, can find a remedy. In the case of social security, this will not be possible. A screen, namely this specific sectoral committee, was created in a law which was hidden in a Social Affairs Committee and which was hidden from the specialists of this Parliament responsible for privacy. Secretary of State, I know you're not responsible. I congratulate you on the work done. But I regret with you the political inability that you have had to convince your party colleague, Mrs De Block, to adopt the same attitude as you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u97	Mr President, we have made a whole course. We have not only talked about supranational legislation, the so-called GDPR or GDPR, but we have also implemented another directive on police and security services, along with something that falls outside the scope of the European Union. In this way, we have chosen a bill that is a complete bill. The fragmentation of the new European legislation is again becoming a whole. It is therefore not only a matter of enforcing and implementing a regulation within a national framework, but also of providing a framework for police, intelligence and security services in the performance of their duties. So it's a complete project. It is quite clear that we had an in-depth debate both at first and second reading on the various aspects of the various legislations. This has already been demonstrated by the debate in plenary. We have had a hearing and a very open discussion with the various ministers and myself on this European and international legislation. On this basis, several amendments were tabled which we discussed openly and looked at how the draft law could be improved. The main points of concern are indeed the appeal, for example to the COC, but also the clarity that no other authority would be given control powers beyond the obligations of the Regulation. That is also what I want to answer to Mr Hellings. This has made it clear that the role of these security committees is limited to additional checking and checking prior to the exchange of data, no more and no less. We are doing exactly what the European Commission is asking us to do. I would like to thank the various colleagues who intervened very openly and transparently during the debates and who tried to improve the draft law in an intellectually honest way. We were open to that. I think it is quite clear from this framework law that we are taking enormous steps, both with the directive and with the European regulation on privacy, for our citizens to better protect their data in public and private hands and to give them more control over it, which is ultimately the objective of the European and certainly also of the Belgian parliamentarians and governments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u98	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u99	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3126/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3126/7) The draft law has 286 articles. The bill has 286 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-plenair-ip242x.u100	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 19 July 2018, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 19 July 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
