ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u2	May I ask you to listen to Mr Dallemagne?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, a firm and humane policy: that is what your government promises, and that is what you have repeated in the last few months. But a few weeks ago, your language changed. You spoke of "closeness, firmness, and firmness." What your Secretary of State replied in echo: "Reject, reject, reject"! This firmness that you call of your vows is not just a semantic slip; it is a real rupture! And I warn you, Prime Minister. I warn you because yes, it is true: we must be able to control the external borders of the European Union better. In this connection, I would like to point out two essential things: on the one hand, the positive migration balance in Europe is mainly due to migrants, not to asylum seekers, who are involved to a limited extent in migratory flows. On the other hand, we have international obligations, not just those of the European Convention on Human Rights, but those of our Treaty, the Treaty on European Union, particularly in its Articles 2 and 3. These obligations are at the heart of the European project. If we turn away from these obligations, we turn our backs on civilization! Indeed, I can agree that asylum applications should be examined as close as possible to countries at war, as close as possible to those who are at risk. We can do it, including in those countries, including – why not? – in our embassies – I hear little about it – but also in transit centres. But, for us, it is out of the question of repelling people who come to our borders and who seek asylum! There is no question of setting up these landing platforms in countries such as Kosovo or Albania, which are not at all roads where asylum seekers and migrants pass. Prime Minister, I ask you to pay attention to this appeal of the populists. Because it could lead you out of the territories of European humanism. Yes, indeed, to this policy of external border control. Yes to this very close examination of countries at war. But then with a policy of reintegration that is not just "cosmetic", like the one we know today. In conclusion, Prime Minister, I ask you to bear in mind that behind every migrant, behind every asylum seeker, there is a person who deserves respect and human dignity. I hope that these are the values that you will also wear at the next mini-summit and at the next weekend's summit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, the extent to which this government supports the Tusk proposal to set up refugee centres outside Europe seems to depend, if I may believe the media, on the interpretation given by each government party individually. The Tusk proposal stops where any reasonable alternative to the current failing policy should begin. Reception of refugees in centres outside the EU is a modest first step. But then what? The real question you will have to answer at the European summit and the real decision to be taken is obvious. Do we still allow asylum seekers from outside the EU to enter Europe? The solution is not centres outside the EU for concentration or information. What we need is zero immigration. Prime Minister, will fewer asylum seekers be recognised with the Tusk proposal? Will fewer legal migrants come to our country and Europe? Will fewer illegal migrants come to Europe? No. Non-European refugees and immigrants are like bees flying to the jam jar. If one wants to get rid of the bees, one must close the jam pot and you do not do so with this proposal, quite the contrary. The only solution is and will continue to be an immigration stop for non-European refugees and foreigners. Get out on the street and listen to the people. The people are tired, the boundaries must be.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is the eighth or ninth time that we have had a debate on this subject in this House. Since the beginning of the legislature, your government has abused human rights. Let us remember Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which we discussed at length here. Let us also recall article 15 of the Belgian Constitution, which enshrines the inviolability of the home, which has been undermined by your bill not yet adopted on home visits, as well as article 22 of the Constitution, which enshrines respect for private and family life, which is undermined by a bill that is indeed voted on and which allows asylum authorities in Belgium to have access to all the electronic devices of asylum seekers, who are not criminals. Finally, let us consider article 25 of the Constitution, which establishes freedom of the press, which was damaged yesterday. Journalists covering a construction site of a "family centre" were arrested. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to realize that tomorrow a number of us will visit a children's prison with the Committee on the Interior! We are in this country. At the last European meeting on the subject of asylum and migration, Prime Minister, your Secretary of State put Belgium in the camp of Hungary in Orbán, Italy in Salvini and Austria in Kurz. Prime Minister, next week, what camp are you going to put Belgium on? Will you wake up? Are you finally going to decide with serious European partners to reform this asylum policy, but still in the context of human rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is good to have a summit to discuss the tensions in European asylum and migration policy. It is said that you have also been invited, Prime Minister, even though it is a limited European summit. We are pleased about that. For the sake of clarity, it is not an asylum crisis but a crisis in the reception and management of migration. We know that we must work together on this and work together on solutions, otherwise we will be in the waters of the United States, where children are separated from their parents and locked up in cages. Fortunately, we are not ready for that and I hope it never happens. I am counting on you to take care of that, Prime Minister. However, we do see that the migration system in Europe is beginning to show looming errors. This is mainly due to the limited resources that we give to UN organisations to properly organise the reception of migrants in the region. After all, we must not forget that 80% of refugees in the region are being received. Look at countries like Jordan and Lebanon. In this area, too, Europe needs to step up its efforts. We also note that a number of European countries are failing to comply with commitments, the so-called resettlement quotas. I know that many Members here like to talk about rights and duties. However, we also need to look into our own minds and see to what extent we are complying with the agreements made so that we can also remind our partners of their obligations. There's the Tusk plan now. We do not know the details of the plan, but I do have a number of questions about it. First, I propose a number of guidelines. Firstly, I believe that a marshall plan for the economic and social development of Africa really needs to be negotiated. Inequality is the cause of many problems. Secondly, we also need to create an environment in which people in the region can be properly cared for. Thirdly, as Secretary of State Francken has said a few times, there must be legislation on economic migration or labour migration from third countries. I come to my specific questions. They talk about hotspots, about offices where people can be heard, but I have the impression that there is a lot of confusion about that. One uses one word, the other uses another. How do you feel about that, Prime Minister? Who will do the screenings? How many people, vulnerable and non-vulnerable, will Belgium have to take concrete care of?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, as much as Mr Tusk's proposal bathes in greyness, we welcome it as an essential beginning of a good approach to the refugee and migration crisis. As I said here two weeks ago, any alternative to open border policy always comes with our proposals. As far as we are concerned, the starting point is that we must make our contribution in the refugee crisis, taking into account our social capacity. I would just like to point out that the Geneva Convention and the European Convention on Human Rights are talking about asylum protection, which rightly applies human dignity standards, but do not mention any right of residence in the European Union. It is not only on our territory that we can help. There is such a thing as safe third countries. There is such a thing as reception in our own region, for which I have already argued for a first time in 2015. In this way, we can use our resources much more efficiently. Again, most people are staying there and we can help many more threatened people with the same means. Mr Tusk rightly does not talk about resettlement in the EU. His idea of centres in North Africa for illegal migrants is something that we have been advocating for four years and which we certainly welcome as a starting point. There's still loose ends. The key, for example, on which agreements have been reached in the past, is not borne within the European context. We must avoid, Prime Minister, that half of the solutions would be an additional attraction and would give new fuel to the business model of smugglers. We are counting on you at European level to ensure that it does not go that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u8	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the debate we had on the subject 15 days ago. I then put forward four criteria on behalf of my group, which I believe are essential and which should be addressed at the next European summit. First and foremost, it is about strengthening the external borders. That is why efforts on Frontex need to be stepped up. Secondly, there must be solidarity. Europe can only exist and survive if all the Member States are united. I refer to the distribution plan, which has remained dead letter until today. The Visegrad countries, which are reluctant, do not lose much money from the European funds. Maybe that's the way to get them to feel better. Thirdly, asylum procedures must be speeded up. The Geneva Convention must be applied in a uniform manner throughout Europe. I'll come to the final criterion. I have advocated EU centres under UN flag in safe third countries. After all, it is vital that we can divide between asylum seekers who call on the Geneva Convention or war refugees and economic migrants. I gave the Turkey deal as an example; I described it here fourteen days ago as perhaps not nice but yet very efficient. Prime Minister, that means that our country remains within the contours of the Geneva Convention and that the right of asylum cannot be made dependent as a fundamental right on additional conditions. Those who flee their country for reasons of war have the right to protection and therefore should not be punished. Prime Minister, I understand that the government and the four parties that support it feel the same way. What are your expectations for the forthcoming European summit?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u9	Prime Minister, the asylum crisis has been high on the agenda since 2015. Europe has done what was necessary. Extra money came and systems were put in place to deal with the smugglers. Agreements were made with Turkey and hotspots came in Greece. Compared to three years ago, the number of people crossing the Mediterranean by boats fell by 90%. Europe has done what was necessary, but not what is sufficient. What needs to be done is to protect our own European borders. If we want to keep our internal borders open, we must protect our external borders. The Tusk plan gives a number of ideas for this, such as hotspots at the borders of Europe. That idea certainly needs to be explored; it must remain within the contours of what Europe itself is and in a humane and human way. We must also ensure that refugees from war who flee violence and are recognised as refugees from war at the borders of Europe can receive asylum and be received in Europe. Everyone must contribute to that. It cannot be that some countries contribute their share and others do not. Indeed, agreements have been made on this in the past, but they have not been complied with by the Member States. That is the end of what will be on the European agenda in the coming days and weeks. Moreover, European solidarity and responsibility go hand in hand. We cannot ask that only the Mediterranean countries take care of asylum seekers. We must bear responsibility with the 27 Member States. My question, Prime Minister, is it, then, whether you are in favour of the Tusk plan? I would like to add another thought. They just talked about bees and jam jars. For us Christian Democrats and perhaps for almost all the groups in Parliament, this is not about bees and jam jars. It's about people. Some people are looking for a better life. That is why, out of well-understood self-interest, we must all put our shoulders under a plan for Africa. Other people, Mr Dewinter, are fleeing regimes like Assad's. The regimes you used to drink coffee with have sown murder and destruction. You compare the people who flee violence, the asylum seekers, here with bees and jam jars. I find that particularly embarrassing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u10	Mr President, I believe that this is the third or fourth time that we have had the opportunity to debate this important issue in plenary. I would like to share with you some important points for the Belgian Government. Firstly, we are convinced that a European response is needed. That is a first priority. We do not believe that unilateral initiatives, country by country, can lead to results. This European response, which we call for, we translate it through our numerous bilateral contacts in order to prepare the European meetings. In recent days, many formal and informal meetings have been held in order to defend our views, which combine our concern for humanity, respect for people and firmness. Many colleagues have rightly said that we need to do more and better in the area of control of Europe's external borders. We must not stick to the slogan, but we must ensure more capacity and more resources. There is also a need for cooperation with a number of third countries to control our borders. This is a top priority for us. In the coming days, I will indeed, on behalf of the government, continue to defend the progress that needs to be made on this first point. The second point is not new. I have mentioned this here on several occasions on behalf of the government. I am pleased that Europe has since made progress on this subject, in particular through proposals. These are starting points, which we will be able to deepen in the coming days. These are agreements with third countries. In this regard, there may be differences between the opposition and part of the majority. I assume that we must establish agreements on migration, including agreements with countries that do not have exactly the same standards in terms of democracy and the rule of law as the European Union. This is an approach that is absolutely necessary, and that we are going to implement. I remember two or three weeks ago, I mentioned here, with precautions and guarantees concerning human rights, the trail of the centres of orientation and information. No matter what name is chosen. We believe that this issue needs to be further developed. What is particularly important to us is that with this track we can make a clearer distinction between people who could be recognised as refugees on the one hand and economic migrants on the other. For some of the opposition there is a permanent ambiguity about this, but we fully respect our international commitments. European and international conventions are implemented and respected. For the past four years, we have granted international protection to 40,000 people. It is our dignity and our responsibility. But, thanks to fair and correct information, we must succeed in breaking the business model of smugglers. That is our ambition and our commitment. I would like to stress another important point: I believe there is a need for closer cooperation with the UNHCR and the IOM, with the United Nations. This is particularly important in order to ensure that we effectively respect human rights and our international commitments. That is also the purpose of our plea in the last few hours and days. We are trying to strengthen and increase capacity through agreements with third countries so that UNHCR and IOM can play an active role, as they already do in a number of countries with the support of the European Union. Once again, I would like to highlight my conviction, which is absolutely to defend - this is what we are going to do at Sunday's European mini-summit and at the next two meetings in Brussels on Thursday and Friday - the desire for a European approach, a comprehensive approach, a pragmatic approach, in line with the concern for human rights and to ensure that we never forget that the lives of families, women and children are at stake. I would like, once again, to state forcefully that - the question being asked, I answer clearly - there is no shadow of doubt: we are in the camp of an orderly channel of migration, we are in the camp of the rule of law, not in the camp of laxism, in the camp of firmness but also in the constant respect for international commitments, for dignity and for human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u11	Prime Minister, thank you for that clarification. I think we need to continue this debate on one of the probably most important political issues in recent European history. This subject deserves an in-depth debate in Parliament. I will send a letter to the President of the House, so that this in-depth debate will take place in committee before the European Summit, in your presence and that of the Minister of the Interior, the Secretary of State for Asylum, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Many of them are now with us. They are all involved in this debate. I hear that we are speaking with one voice and that you have Parliament's voice in detail on these issues. This is extremely important! If I say so, it is because we continue abroad, in the press, to hear and see your Secretary of State more often than you yourself on these issues. That's exactly right! It was still mentioned yesterday and today in major French daily newspapers. What I am asking you, Prime Minister, is indeed to prevent this plane from being piloted by several different pilots and to carry out a clear and humane policy that distinguishes migrants from asylum seekers and treats them according to international law and the dignity they deserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder why the N-VA Group has just applauded the Prime Minister's response. In response to the muscle roll of Mr Francken and Mr De Wever there is zero on the reekest. Mr De Wever said yesterday that refugees who come illegally to Europe should no longer be allowed to start an asylum procedure, but there is no mention of it today. We have been asked to get public opinion on your side, to take the Geneva Convention, which is essential, much more essential than adapting centres outside Europe, and to register the principle of territoriality, so that only European refugees in Europe can be received, but there is no mention of that today. Ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, Mr De Wever perorizes but Mr Michel reigns. Today, the rhetoric of the N-VA is just the politics of the MR. The N-VA is campaigning, while the MR ultimately conducts the policy. And that is the big difference between constantly launching proposals and getting them implemented. Ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, your prime minister is not following you. Let that be the clear message in Flanders, for anyone who thought that the borders would close, that the Geneva Convention would be amended, that illegal refugees would no longer be welcome here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u13	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we must therefore reform the Dublin Regulation and find a form of solidarity between all European countries in order to distribute these migrants throughout the continent. You are right, we must find a way to inform and orient these people from abroad, so that they can apply for asylum from a third country. This is possible, and you can do it with your European counterparts, but without flouting the European Convention on Human Rights and, in particular, its Article 3. I would like to remind you that the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons has determined that, in the case of the Sudanese for example, they have been returned to torture. Belgium therefore does not comply with Article 3. I have already pointed out to you all the articles of our Constitution that are regularly flouted. If this debate is ever settled at European level, it will cease to be the bedrock of all nationalisms and populisms. Once the solutions have been reached, our society will also be rid of all those who gain the existence of this debate and who belong to the same camp, Prime Minister: the Salvini, Orban and, yes, Franken!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u14	Thank you, Prime Minister, for calling more on the United Nations organisations to organise proper reception in the region, but if you say so, you must also say that you will have to give more resources to it, because they currently have only 10% of the resources they need. I've asked a lot of questions, but we're not getting much clarity. You communicate from a number of very important values, but we cannot translate them into concrete actions. Mr Dewael spoke about European centres under the UN flag. I hear other stories about the hotspots. What'll it be? Will war fugitives pushbacks be possible? Where are they gonna be arrested? In the Libyan waters? All over the Mediterranean? Which countries are interested in organising these hotspots or other structures? Prime Minister, you are talking about war refugees and economic migrants. We should not rewrite history. Many European countries have robbed Africa. That's what China's doing right now. That's a fact. I think we have an historic score to settle there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, the criticism that the N-VA is not enough about government policy makes little impression when it comes from a party that has been confusing air-trapping with political companies for four decades. We are representatives of the people, and that means that it is our democratic and I would like to stress this, so it is also our ethical duty to seek solutions, with respect for the concerns of our constituents. Anyone who has been said here several times by many spokesmen who has advocated European solutions will have to take into account the democratic reality in the European Union and in various countries. It is a deep desire of many citizens here with us, but also throughout the European Union, to provide insured front and back doors, otherwise the internal doors will be locked, and that is not what we want, and migratory flows controlled by our own governments. If it has just been said that every refugee or asylum seeker has the right to respect and dignity, then we fully agree. I want to move on. All seven billion inhabitants of this world are entitled to respect and dignity. This immediately shows that we will have to go further than that in our migration policy. It is our deep conviction that humanity and controlled borders can indeed go hand in hand, but uncontrolled migration and democracy are enemies of one another.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u16	Mr President, when Mr De Coninck just said the word 'pushbacks', she reminded me of her chairman, who once launched it not so long ago. Let's have a good time. On the left, I will simply repeat what I said 14 days ago. I haven't heard from some parties on the left today, by the way. I will therefore repeat my statement in French: qui ne dit mot consent. In any case, the attitude of some of these parties amounts to open borders. I repeat that again. They play in the hands of unscrupulous human smugglers. Everyone is entitled to his or her opinion, but declare it very clearly, clearly and openly. I would like to say one more word about the Geneva Convention. The Geneva Convention was born of the ruins after the Second World War and is, in my view, a monument. It is always possible to take further steps in migration and asylum policy, but the Geneva Convention binds 194 countries. I say quite clearly here on behalf of my group: anyone who wants to change it, anyone who wants to change it, will always have to do so without us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u17	Prime Minister, you will have an important task in the coming days, because the plans and proposals on the table must succeed. They can only succeed if we can move from a stronger Europe. More than ever, in the field of asylum and migration, we need a stronger Europe, a stronger Europe that monitors our borders and that is committed to the security of our citizens, a stronger Europe that ensures the humane, human reception of war refugees assigned to Europe. You have given us the guarantee of that today. You referred to the United Nations and to the Geneva Convention. You have also referred to our international obligations. That's the only way forward. I wish you every success in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u18	Prime Minister, your government started in 2014 as the government of hope. It was even written that the government's budgetary policy threw Di Rupo's into the well. That wasn't an exaggeration. You went looking for 11 billion, 75% you found through savings, 25% through new revenue. It was a trend break. But then the government became a squabble cabinet. The first hot air appeared in the 2016 budget control. Again and again, and on more and more domains, you had to pull files towards you and then put them on the long track. Last week we were talking about the European debate on migration, which you will be speaking on behalf of this government next week. The replacement of the F-16 is now apparently also your file. There is also the habitation of illegal immigrants and the Energy Pact. I also refer to ARCO and the Belfius Stock Exchange, which are very important in terms of our budget. If you have to draw up a list of heavy-duty professions, Prime Minister, don't forget the task of a Prime Minister, because that is a very heavy appeal, depending on what you get on your sandwiches. On the budget, your government says it's doing better than Elio. But wasn't Elio the worst student in the class? Is that the ambition of what once had to be a dream cabinet? What do we see now? You apply the tricks of the purple-green foor. You pimp up the budget with advance payments from the companies. What's the conclusion? The National Bank of Belgium says there will be a deficit by 2020. Without changed policies 1.8 %. Yesterday, the Federal Planning Office said it slightly milder: 1.7 %. I have the impression that Elio is back in power. All I can say is, your name is Charles Michel. Yes, there are elections in October, and maybe in May. The question is whether this government will still rule or whether your squabble cabinet will become a classroom, a cabinet that is politically absent? Will this tired government continue without a dash? My question is: what can we expect from you? What will you do to achieve the balance of the budget after all? What is the status of all your yards?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u19	Mr President, first of all, I am not sure that I understood everything. I'll do my best to give you an answer anyway. There is a strong commitment to the revival of our economy. The latest information from the Planning Bureau confirms the good results. Growth will remain stable over the next two years. This is a result of environmental factors at European level and of our structural measures. There is again an increase in business investment of 3.2 %. This is a strong signal. It is also important for job creation. The slogan "jobs, jobs, jobs" is currently a reality. For the first time since the 1970s, according to the Planning Bureau, we have been able to produce excellent results in terms of job creation and the reduction of unemployment. That's a top priority for this government. In the next few weeks and months, and until the last day of this legislature, we will take additional measures. Let me give you some examples. In recent weeks, we have launched an initiative in the framework of the Consultation Committee and together with the social partners to provide answers to an important challenge, namely job vacancies. There are vacancies in our country for 130 000 jobs. We must have a coherent and strong policy with the cooperation of the Länder and the various authorities. Another example is the progress we have made in terms of an investment pact, an investment strategy. During the parliamentary discussions that will take place in the coming weeks, we will have the opportunity to make our point, to show what decisions we have taken and what the prospects are for the next few months. I must add that the reform of corporate taxation will have an increasing impact and will provide more oxygen in the coming years to strengthen our economy. The orientation is therefore very clear and we will continue to work hard to strengthen the economy, job creation and investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u20	Mr Prime Minister, you are, of course, talking about growth again, but that growth is certainly not only due to the government, because that is typical of Europe. However, I find it very striking that Belgium is doing worse than the European average. You talk about "jobs, jobs, jobs," but then we have to fill them out. Think of the bickering between ministers Peeters and Muyters. One can create jobs, but if one does not find people for them, then there is also a problem. However, you do not mention that the promised balance, the great promise of the government, has not been realised, and that is what the Planning Bureau is expressing. It was indeed a dream cabinet in 2014, Prime Minister, but it has become a squabble cabinet. I hope for your sake that it will not be a disaster government, because the coalition partners can't agree on anything anymore. Certain things, such as the undressing of the language law, can be agreed, but then one suddenly disagrees and wants to reverse it. If there is such a proposal from Tusk, on which everyone can agree, then one can still pretend to disagree. But that will be the power of habit, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u21	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a European summit will take place next week. Of course, the migration crisis is high on the agenda there, but I also read that Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Macron would have reached an agreement on a separate budget for the euro area. It is not about the European budget, which already exists, but about a separate budget for the euro area to address structural problems in the euro area, to streamline different developments in the economies and to assist countries in economic difficulties. This will strengthen the structural basis of the euro area and close the gap between the more and less prosperous countries. This can be done, inter alia, through a separate budget, which can in certain circumstances give an investment boost. This is part of the reform of the European monetary system. There would also be a European currency fund instead of the European cooperation agreements. We note, however, that a number of countries are opposed to this. Among other things, the Netherlands, which is becoming increasingly eurosceptic, is opposed to this separate budget. It is also against a European currency fund. Prime Minister, what is Belgium's attitude? Do you applaud the agreement between Mr Macron and Mrs Merkel? What's the timeline? I read that the separate budget would only apply in 2021. Is the item on the agenda of the European summit and what is Belgium's attitude?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the stability of the euro area and the strengthening of the economy in the euro area are indeed very important challenges for the future. It is necessary to take action. That is what we did a few weeks ago, for example in the framework of Eurofin for banking union. That was an important and necessary step. It took a lot of time to reach a consensus. This agreement on banking union is de facto a step towards a reduction in risk derivatives. It is also necessary to implement the concrete measures within the framework of a European stability mechanism. We have concluded political agreements on this subject within the framework of Eurofin. It is necessary to implement these chords. Another important point is the debate at European level on a possible budget for the euro area. One looks at the amount, the envergure, the decision-making process, the governance and its purpose. There have been many negotiations on this in recent weeks, including with the Netherlands. The Netherlands has indeed taken up the position you outlined. We do not yet know all the details of the discussions between Mr Macron and Mrs Merkel. The agreement dates from a few hours ago. However, we will be able to discuss this at the summit next week. At Belgian level, the Council of Ministers will first have to determine our position in detail. We will, too. I would like to clarify that it is important for me to do everything in my power to promote convergence in the euro area. In my view, it would be a mistake to get a contradiction between reducing the risks on the one hand and dividing the risks on the other. We must make progress both in reducing risks and in solidarity, in sharing risks among the Member States. We believe that the implementation of the structural reform we are trying to implement here in Belgium is crucial for greater convergence in the euro area and for a more optimistic future of growth in the euro area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u23	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. The euro area is often discussed only in times of crisis; I am thinking of Italy or Greece. A structural approach is necessary, as is the convergence between economies and the strengthening of economies that are less successful in terms of growth and productivity. A separate budget, regardless of the European budget, could provide an incentive to boost economies and ensure that the euro area can survive in the coming years. With economies that are not convergent, this will be a very difficult task and will cost a lot of money to a system like the possible European currency fund, which is operating in crisis operations. We must think in the long term. The Belgian attitude is ready, you will cooperate on behalf of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u24	Prime Minister, the circumstances are known to everyone in this chamber. Let us remember that it was a team of journalists who accompanied a movement protesting against the fact that one could design a place for the confinement of families, with young children, on the website of the 127bis. Trump can be denounced, but we cannot conceive of children being locked up in closed centres. Detention in closed places is contrary to international conventions and must be strongly recalled. That's why there was this protest movement. As a result, the journalists' team was arrested and we are trying to understand what justifies this arrest. His equipment was confiscated, which is even less justified in my view. Assuming that they did not comply with the first order of the police officers to leave the premises, considered private, the confiscation of the equipment is even less justified. I recall that our Assembly adopted on 14 December 2017 a resolution on the safety of journalists in the world. Speaking to the rest of the world is one thing, ensuring that the same principles are respected in our country seems to me to be the best way to be heard in the rest of the world. Prime Minister, I would like you to explain to us the reasons for the arrest of these journalists and the confiscation of their equipment. Who gave instructions? Who has assumed administrative, operational and political responsibility within this police service? What were the police services present, federal police, zonal police or other security services?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u25	Prime Minister, almost every week we have to question your government about violations of fundamental human rights and citizens' freedoms. I would like to recall here some recent developments that I believe are serious and unimaginable under previous governments, even if we go back in the distant past. On 11 January, your Government confirmed here the repatriation of the Sudanese who had fled the torture in force in their country. On 1 February, your government was here defending searches of the private homes of citizens who bring some humanity to the refugees. On 17 May, your government justified sending families with children to closed centres. On 24 May, you refused here to denounce the scandalous statements of Mr. From Wever about little Mawda, killed by our police. On June 7, your Secretary of State for Migration called for circumvention – no more or less! – Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, an article that prohibits torture and inhuman treatment. Finally, no later than yesterday, a RTBF team that was shooting a subject about the confinement of children was arrested by the police and deprived of liberty. Here, Prime Minister, where we are today. Belgium, which was a model for human rights and freedoms, a model for freedom of the press, has gradually become a country where transgressions are now possible. I'm afraid these transgressions are covered by you. Prime Minister, to make it simple, what else can you do to save the honour and reputation of our country, which I think is damaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior, are fundamental freedoms and human rights still fully guaranteed today in Belgium? The question can be asked in the light of the situation in Steenokkerzeel, where there is a double violation of human rights. On the one hand, it is planned to lock children in Steenokkerzeel and, on the other hand, journalists who have come to cover the event are being detained. Minister, look today at the Council of Europe website and its platform for the protection of journalists. It states, as of June 20, 2018, that journalists Himad Messoudi and Julien Vlassenbroek are detained and that their equipment is confiscated. This is a level 1 alert in the Council of Europe classification. Level 1 covers the most serious and harmful violations of media freedom. Here we are, Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior, where we come from! Journalists were indeed on the site where militant action was being carried out. They were asked to get out of the yard, which they did. In a second stage, their cameras were confiscated and, in a third stage, they were arrested and confiscated all their means of communication. Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior, why did the police prevent journalists from doing their job? Why does the police agree to let a colleague pass with a transmission suitcase and then attack the journalists? Why is the police arresting journalists and detaining them? Some say they weren't identified. Generally, a guy with a large RTBF microphone in hand is a newspaper; I can tell you that! In case of doubt, why not ask these journalists for a press card? Who made the decision to stop them? What are the guidelines given in this case but also in all interventions in closed centres? Finally, what measures do you intend to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u27	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen, everyone organises their remarks as he wishes. For my part, I will not mix up all the files of the last two or three years and I come to the question that we are dealing with today, namely the arrest yesterday morning of a team of RTBF journalists. The RTBF - Belgian Radio-Television of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation -, which is a public service, did indeed make a report around the closed centre 127bis of Steenokkerzeel. These journalists were then released. The MR is viscerally attached, like any democratic party, to freedom of the press, freedom of opinion and unimpeded freedom of investigation. I had the honour - it is true, Mr Maingain - to propose to the House that I vote on a resolution that I tabled to protect journalists around the world. I was happy because the vote had been almost unanimous, ladies and gentlemen: 133 votes in favour and 1 abstention, yours Mr Maingain. You are the only one who abstained on this text. In the same way as we are committed to freedom of the press, we are committed, like any other democratic party, to the rule of law and respect for the rules that govern the security of all citizens. Prime Minister Himad Messoudi, the professional journalist in question, said in his tweet that he did not want to be politically recovered but that questions had to be asked. That is what we are doing today by addressing you, Prime Minister. You asked for clarity on this matter. An investigation will therefore be conducted into the reasons for the arrests by local police forces. Who will conduct the survey and when will we know the answers? In the state of your knowledge, why were only RTBF journalists emptied, pardoned, targeted...? It was a nice formula. I take it! Could the journalists' equipment be confiscated? Finally, you have heard him like me: without fear of excessive language - we have even talked about children killed by your police - some wonder about the degree of freedom of the press in our country. Prime Minister, what is the assessment by international press associations of press freedom in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u28	Mr President, here are some elements of a response to these inquiries, which are indeed legitimate in the light of the information that has been provided. First point, I knew it, but I still discover it today: the passage of the majority, for almost a quarter of a century, towards the opposition, causes some troubles of memory. With regard to the issue of families with children, Belgium has in the past been condemned by international institutions under previous governments. This led us to take the decision to set up family units, with guarantees and supervision. They are used only as a last resort. The second fundamental point, and I say it with all the solemnity necessary in this House, is that there is no shadow of doubt that freedom of the press is a fundamental pillar of democracy, of the rule of law. It is guaranteed by the Constitution. Freedom of information must be guaranteed at all times. In the same way, I also want to affirm the support for the work of the police officers who constantly monitor the maintenance of law and order and security. Both data are required to enforce the rule of law. The Minister of the Interior will give factual evidence. Immediately after we were informed of the facts, my advisers had contact with the journalist in question, and the Minister of the Interior inquired about the factors that led to this situation. It was not the federal police, but the local police that was on the front line to take decisions within the framework of the administrative police. I will point out that the contractor carrying out work on the site informed the local authorities of the existence of risks related to the stability of the building, since the penetration of people on the site, up to the roof, endangered safety and also caused tensions inside the closed centre. The federal police were called in reinforcement, in support, under the authority of the officers exercising the administrative police, who took the decisions of administrative arrest. Identification checks were carried out at a later date, i.e. once the presence was found at the police station. I would really like, with the greatest delicacy, kindness, sweetness, to tell you how amazed I am. Stunned by the instrumentalization that is being tried to do in this situation! I received a letter from a member of the government of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation stating that the government would have ordered journalists to be arrested. Fake news! Lie! Populism! Finally, MP Elio Di Rupo, you have assumed great responsibilities. I was amazed enough by the confusion and lack of nuances in a completely biased statement, and outside the realities of a number of situations. But above all, honourable Member, you should, together with me, welcome the fact that in recent years our country has made progress in the international press freedom rankings. Reporters Without Borders places an annual ranking on this subject. When you led the government, Mr. Di Rupo, we moved back from the twentieth to the twenty-first place. Under this government, today, our country is the seventh best guarantee of freedom of the press!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u29	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u30	There will be replicas.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u31	Oh, isn't it? Freedom of the press is not an argument? Explain that's not an argument? Reporters Without Borders, Mr. Laaouej! You pour into populism!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u32	There will be replicas. Let the Minister of the Interior speak, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u33	Lies and populism is your choice!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u34	The Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the Prime Minister has announced, I will present you with the facts. At approximately 10:30 a.m., a column arrived at the entrance to the centre. It consisted of a bus, a van loaded with ladders, climber equipment and equipment for chaining at fences. A group of about 100 demonstrators entered the centre's 127bis site by climbing the fences by means of ladders. Some of the demonstrators then chained up at the fence. Another part was mounted on the roof of the new family houses under construction. The demonstrators were interviewed and filmed by several people near the fence and on the roof. In the meantime, the management of Centre 127bis informed the police that the spirits of the 93 residents of the centre were starting to warm up. In addition, the contractor of the family homes under construction informed the local police that he could not guarantee the stability of the construction, given the presence of a few dozen people on the roof. Despite numerous insistence, the demonstrators continued their action. Journalists continued to film and interview demonstrators within the police-defined perimeter. At around 1 p.m., by decision of the administrative police officer of the Kastze police zone and in consultation with the mayor, administrative arrests were made on the basis of the various information I have already given you. The demonstrators were administratively arrested and transferred to the police station. Their cameras and sound equipment were briefly confiscated and also transferred to the police station. This is the procedure to be followed. Once at the police station, five people reported that they were journalists and identified themselves using their press card. They hadn't shown it before. The journalists were then released and their equipment was returned to them on condition that they boarded their vehicle and left immediately. That's what they did. When a person refuses to obey a police order and his actions put the person or other persons at risk, the police may intervene. In this case, the persons at risk were the residents of the centre, the personnel, the construction workers and the person themselves. As I told you, these people were on the roof of a building under construction. It is not because we are journalists that we must not respect the law. The journalists in question did not, at any time, show their press cards. They showed it when they were at the police station. The journalist in question also reported on Twitter that the police showed professionalism and respect. These are the events that took place yesterday noon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u36	Mr President, we would do well if we were to continually know this easy controversy between those who have shared power for so many years, and who today want to make them believe that they have never been a part of the majority for twenty-five years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u37	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u38	Thank you, Mr Clarinval, for reminding me that I had some courage at one time. That's right. More fundamentally, I thank the Minister of the Interior for providing facts. However, his factual relationship is interesting. He confuses protesters with journalists. It equates journalists with demonstrators and considers that journalists should be arrested in the same way as demonstrators, for possible non-compliance with public security. You say that the police are not able to identify journalists with cameras bearing the RTBF logo. I can understand: the mayor of the dear commune is a member of your party, Mr. Minister of the Interior. I don't know very well what it takes for an informed mayor of RTBF journalists to know who he has to do! We are beginning to understand that the only logic was to assimilate journalists to demonstrators and treat them as such.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u39	Mr President, Prime Minister, since we are talking about references, the European Federation of Journalists, in its 2015 report, "declares the repeated threats by the Prime Minister's office to a RTBF journalist". More fundamentally, Prime Minister, we cannot ask you a question without you constantly mentioning previous governments. I take care of everything I've done. You were part of my government. When we formed him, you were there, your party was there, and you were president of that party!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u40	Memory disorders, I told you! I wasn't in the government!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u41	A minimum of elegance should force you to stay a little focused on the facts, and to provide answers to the questions you are being asked. I won't be much longer. You don't answer questions, as usual. I simply ask you to honor your position.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u42	Prime Minister, I sincerely believed that you would condemn this arrest of journalists today. What did I hear? You justified it. And in what way? You invoke problems of stability in a building. So when a building is unstable, you have to stop journalists to fix it. So that's what your argument is based on... I also heard the rather delusional argument of the Minister of the Interior, for which it was impossible to identify these journalists, even though one of them held a microphone in the colors of RTBF. Besides, you're distorting the facts. When they arrived at the police station, one of them showed his press card. What did the police do then? She sent him to the dungeon! So you are distorting the reality of events! Mr Miller, when we debated your resolution, the journalists' representatives explained to us that our country ranked fifth in the number of alerts recorded by the Council of Europe. Fifth out of thirty-seven countries! We were then ranked behind Turkey and Russia! This is where Belgium is in terms of press freedom! Prime Minister, I did not think I would ever hear a head of government in our country justifying the arrest of journalists!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u43	I thank you, Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, for having informed us in fact, but also in political terms. I hear you sitting after sitting and I confirm that you are perfectly in your role, Prime Minister, especially when you are forced to stem this kind of "scandalite" which has been animating the ranks of an opposition which has really nothing else to put itself under the tooth for a few months. While we are in this Parliament, the seat of our democracy – in the heart of Brussels, the capital of the European Union – members of the PTB are trying to give you lessons in democracy and freedom of the press. It's still amazing! You really have no shame! You can laugh, Mr. Hedebouw, you only laugh yourself! You have no shame! You are using arguments that run counter to everything we stand for here, all democratic parties combined! That's what we're doing, Mr. Hedebouw! By asking questions today, the various members of the democratic parties showed their interest in defending the press, showed their interest in defending the rule of law and wanted to know what happened! You don't care! Nothing! What happened is simply a pretext for continuing to try to break the democratic system, a democratic system that you live in is said in brackets! I thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for their response.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u44	Mr President, Mr Miller has kindly referred to my vote on the resolution. But Mr. Miller has a selective memory. If he knew why I abstained, if he had followed the work! I had tabled amendments that wanted this resolution to be even more ambitious, because I was referring to a Council of Europe resolution that condemned the influence of policies on the media. You rejected these amendments. That was the reason I abstained. Accept, Mr Miller, that your speech was intended to discredit my way of voting, when I had tabled amendments that complemented your resolution!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u45	First of all, you're talking about selective memory. You say: "If you had attended the works!"; But that was my motion for a resolution! So I was there! I followed all the work and tried to defend them in the strongest possible way. So you acknowledge that you have abstained, that you are referring, in order to attack the government, to a text that you have refused to vote under arguments that may be laudable. However, Mr. Maingain, Défi did not vote for a text that tended to protect journalists!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u46	Mr President, Minister, the debate has just begun. My question has a link with the fond of that debate and with the previous debate on the EU and migration. No kids in cages, not now, never. That statement could have come from the twitter hat of some members of your majority, but last week it was particularly quiet in your majority. I had originally put this question to the attention of the Prime Minister, who is still here today, who was at the time the leader of the protest in Europe against the situation of violence against Catalan demonstrators. Even now, the Prime Minister didn't give home. There's radio silence. As Minister for Foreign Affairs, you have brought out a half-hearted communication, but there was no communication to clarify our principles, principles which, however, have just been addressed in the debate on migration. No kids in cages, not now, never. It's not that hard. The American president separated about two thousand children from their parents for weeks, without even one of the parents knowing if they will see their children again. For every mother and father, that's more than a punch in the stomach. We cannot imagine that. That's inhumane. It's not that hard to say, is it? How far can we go to scare off refugees? The world looked baffled and remains bewildered. The decree signed by President Trump, which was not necessary, still does not provide a solution for the children who are separated from their parents today and in absolutely traumatic circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, that makes it very clear to me that the pendulum is going crazy. In Hungary, one year in prison is now possible if refugees are helped or if they are portrayed positively, which is a clear threat to NGOs. In Italy, Minister Salvini speaks openly about street by street, district by district "cleaning." He preaches a mass purification. A ship full of needy refugees had to float around the sea for days before being allowed to dock. Once again, our country was silent. I am therefore concerned about the difference between words and deeds, between what has just been said by colleagues from the majority and the reaction of the majority to facts that have arisen. The government's reaction to all these matters is nonexistent. Orbán is a group member of one of our government parties. There is no response to Salvini, who makes downright racist statements. A tilt point has been reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u47	And now the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u48	A tilt point has been reached. You were supposed to see the ambassador. I assume that this plan is still ahead because the situation on the ground has still not improved. However, I am asking you for more. I would ask you to be a pioneer at the European level, as was the case at the time with Catalonia, and to bring this up at the European Summit and at the UN Human Rights Council. What are you going to do to break the silence that now characterizes our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u49	Mr President, Mrs Almaci, Belgium condemns in very clear terms the separation of children from their parents, in all circumstances. This practice goes against the provisions of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The United States has not ratified this treaty, as the only country in the world. Apart from that, the fundamental rights and freedoms in general also apply to children, and this of course also applies in the United States. Furthermore, as a specifically vulnerable group, children have a special status within the international human rights framework. The Belgian concern about this policy was raised yesterday during a meeting between my head of the cabinet and the US agent. After all, there is currently no American ambassador in Brussels. At the same time, I note that, within the United States too, these measures are the subject of an open, general and critical debate, such as a democracy. Partly because of this debate within the United States, you, like me, have heard this morning that the US President would take steps to change the policy. I would like to stress that Belgium fully respects this democratic dynamic. It goes without saying, however, that I will continue to follow this situation very closely. We must dare to ask our American colleagues for more. I must also tell you that respect for human rights throughout the world is a priority for Belgium and the Belgian Government. We will act on it at European level, as is already the case in the debate on the situation in Poland, for example, and this will also be the case with a reaction in Romania in the next few hours. We will also act on it in the United Nations Security Council. Here too, one of our priorities is the protection of children in particular. I have asked, for example, that Belgium should have a specific role for children in war zones. So we have not waited for your call to do something for the real protection of children, in all the countries of the world and now also in the United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u50	Minister, I am pleased that you will be putting this dossier on the agenda of the EU summit. There will be an informal meeting next weekend. I am glad that you will also refer it to the UN. That was our call, too, right after the message was announced. Only I have had to wait until today to get a clear signal from you in that direction. The difference in response capacity when it comes to people who are rightly protesting in Catalonia, and this file is just what I hate today. It helps if we are also a pioneer in this country, as regards Salvini, the boat Aquarius, Hungary and Orbán. If you say fine words about human rights and special care for children, it will also help you to assess that children are not locked up, not even in our country! Signing that principle would please you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u51	Mr President, Mr Minister, some wounds, because they are ill-treated or not treated at all, never heal. This is the situation in our prisons. Regularly, guard strikes must remind us of the deplorable conditions in which the missions they have to carry out are fulfilled. The same applies to the escorts of detainees. The numerous convictions of Belgium by the International Prison Observatory (OIP) show this to be sufficient. It is therefore urgent that we organize, in this public service, as in others, a minimum service. My group has no problem with that. It would of course be best to do so in the context of social consultation and the application of existing protocols, which must be assessed in theory. Otherwise, it is necessary to dare the legal text that will organize this service, in the same way as in hospitals. I am very clear about that. Minister, if you want to be credible, you must at the same time provide the human and financial resources to ensure that this minimum service is possible. If, today, this service is already practically inapplicable by default of staff, and in particular of guards, you will not succeed. In 2016, we had the last prison guard strike. You made commitments to the unions. You are committed to filling the personnel cadre or, in any case, to hiring additional staff. You were asked about the evolution of this situation. You said that it was complicated, that there was a need for exams, that there were few candidates, that the success rate among them was low and that it was really difficult to find the number of people needed. Yet you cannot escape it. You will need to find solutions and provide political answers to this question. This is an indispensable and essential prerequisite for our country's commitment to minimum service. What's your status? I think you were meeting with the unions this morning. What did this meeting give? In what period of time will you come, failing agreement with these unions, to offer the minimum service, and under what terms? Finally, how are you going to invest financially and humanely so that the dignity in our prisons is at the meeting, both for the guards and also for the detainees?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u52	Minister, last Friday the government adopted a draft law that affects the status of prison staff and introduces minimum services for them. The result is great concern among the staff, a great willingness to take action, and a few days' strike. Today, barely one in five guards work in Flanders. Minister, it is true that in many countries the right to strike in prisons is limited. It is true that the Council of Europe has repeatedly called on our country to do something about the living conditions of the prisoners. It is also true that if the government decides to lock people up, it also has a duty to take care of them, even in times of social unrest. After all, we do not want prisoners to get worse out of prison. But, Minister, instead of minimum services, there must be a minimum policy, so that strikes are not necessary. That's the essence here. That minimum policy is lacking today. For years, the guards have had more than five hundred thousand vacation days, which they cannot take. For years there has been a request for a minimal policy for a better prison structure. For years, a minimum policy for better living conditions in prisons has been called for. Minister, the staff in the prisons is your first ally, if you want to work on this. Last Friday, you made a unilateral decision. You just pulled over the social consultation. This is how you make your first allies your first enemies. Mr President-in-Office, how come, firstly, after consultation with the trade unions, you have taken a unilateral decision? Secondly, you were with the unions today. How will you prevent the social conflict from getting out of hand? Thirdly, and in particular, when will you finally address the causes of displeasure among the staff, rather than the displeasure itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u53	Minister, allow me to begin by congratulating you. The minimum service is finally coming. It's about time. Minister, during prison strikes, not only the police of their core mission, which is to guard our security, are being distracted, but also the rights of the detainees are being compromised. Strikes mean, among other things, no shower, no walk, no work, no work on integration and no medication. Such a situation creates enormous tensions in prison. In 2016, there were injured as a result. Ladies and gentlemen, the Council of Europe's anti-fouling committee has repeatedly called our country on account of the lack of a system of guaranteed service provision. That's perfectly right. After all, we are the only country in Europe that cannot guarantee services. Colleagues, as early as 2008 we tabled a legislative proposal here in Parliament to guarantee minimum services. In the meantime, this service is included in the coalition agreement. Since then, the Minister has been in vain with the social partners for many years. It is now really up to the political world to decide. Minister, I am convinced that this is a balanced agreement. Only guards are called in on long-term strikes. Of course, we must do everything we can to avoid strikes. Colleagues, please be. Much has been done to meet the demands of the guards. I am thinking, for example, of the commitment of premiums to work during the day and not at night. I am thinking, for example, of leave prior to retirement. This means that ten years before all other workers can just stay at home on leave and be paid for it, and yet they are not satisfied. Minister, I regret that the guards once again use the strike weapon. However, we must continue. I would therefore ask you to do the following. When will you come to Parliament with your draft?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u54	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Van Cauter, you have taken the words from my mouth. I heard you congratulated the minister. I'm going to do it too because the prison file is a difficult one. Since 2005, our country has been asked to set up this minimum service. I heard that there are references to history sometimes, sometimes not. In view of what is happening now, we find that there is a situation that is not acceptable, that is to say, to this day we do not have a minimum service in our country that is organised. Unfortunately, we have been the subject of a public statement by the CPT - it would have been a good thing - to highlight this element. We also recall the statements made by the detainees who were subjected to the 2016 strike, where they reported particularly difficult and degrading situations in relation to their condition as a prisoner. The situation is in fact quite simple to understand in relation to the principle of minimum service. You have people who are totally dependent on the outside. It is therefore not normal to envisage for a long time a situation where there is no minimum service in relation to these people who, I repeat, are in a situation of total dependence on the outside world. I heard that the preliminary draft was adopted at first reading by the government, and I also heard some particularly rewarding things. Firstly, we are talking about a month-long consultation. Secondly, in order to properly target the prison situation by prison because, indeed, the prison in Bruges is certainly not the same as that in Lantin, it is planned to negotiate a prison by prison. Finally, it is important to clarify that you leave on the basis of guards or prison officers who declare that they do not want to be on strike. A second category is the officers who did not make a statement at all and a third category: possibly, if the strike was to last, a consultation between the prison management and the unions, prison by prison, to set up this minimum service which you estimate to be 10 per cent. Minister, I encourage you to continue along this path. I have three very simple questions. What happened today at this meeting with the unions? What is the timetable for consultation over the next 30 days? Finally, because you are regularly the subject of questions in the Committee on Justice but also in plenary, compared with the agreements made in 2016, what progress has been made since the ones you mentioned earlier in 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u55	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, almost 60% of prison staff in Wallonia and almost 77% in Flanders have been on strike for three days to express their opposition to the minimum guaranteed service in prisons in the event of a prolonged strike. A few weeks ago, negotiations on the status of prison staff were reportedly disrupted as a result of an ultimatum imposed by your office. While these negotiations, relating to certain issues, had not yet been initiated and some concrete proposals had been made, your cabinet would have said that the negotiations would end at the end of the June 6 meeting - the end of the theoretical deadline for negotiations. Admit, minister, that it is paradoxical to tackle the working conditions of agents when they are not even able to recruit enough. Today, these same officers are being asked to carry out more missions, such as the monitoring of prisoners who are being radicalised, but without, however, providing them with the necessary and sufficient means to carry out this task. It is time to reconsider their status and their deplorable working conditions. It is more than time to strengthen the attractiveness of the profession than to take measures that could eventually cause the prison disaster and the collapse of our prison system because of a lack of labour. Minister, you have said you are open to negotiation and constructive consultation with trade union organisations. What came out of your meeting with the unions today? Are you committed to continuing the negotiations despite the end of the theoretical deadline? Are you open to constructive and taboo negotiation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u56	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, many prisons are outdated and overcrowded. That's not new, it's been for years. The living conditions are poor and the working conditions for penitentiary staff are also poor. We must respect those who try to make the best of it day in and day out. To meet this, a number of things have already happened. The prison master plan, granted, is slow, but you know that in this country one citizen can stop the construction of a prison. The overpopulation has fallen, almost 900 new recruitments have taken place, and now there is the measure of minimum service, which we welcome. Because of these poor living conditions, our country has been repeatedly sentenced to compensation for violating the basic rights of the detainees. It gets worse with a strike. Inmates don't get visitors, can't take a shower, can't get out of jail, can't work. That is not good for the unemployed either. I remember 2016, when psychosocial services and prison directors brought their prisoners food. That can't be sustained. The police must intervene, until they also strike, and then the soldiers come. That call for minimum service has been there for a long time and resounds very loudly. Belgium is one of the few countries that does not yet have it. I believe that we are in the sad company of Albania. Colleagues, and I am looking in particular at Mr Lambrecht and Mr Özen, the negotiations with the prisons and the unions have not been there for a few weeks, pas quelques semaines, mais déjà depuis des années. For years now, under Minister De Clerck, when I was a Member of Parliament, that was the case, under Minister Turtelboom and under you, Minister, that was the case. Negotiations, not to abolish the right to strike, but to introduce a minimum level of service in a balanced way so as to guarantee the basic rights of the detainees and thus to comply with international obligations and no longer to be condemned. Nevertheless, we note that the trade unions are stopping again today and say that it may take a very long time. I'm thinking straight back to 2016. We know where that led. Mr Minister, my question is very simple. Will you continue in the coalition agreement and in the balanced arrangement to provide minimum service that is now in place to meet international obligations? You already have our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you all know that it is not the government's intention to reduce or make impossible the right to strike of the penitentiary officials. The only intention of the government is to ensure that the right to strike can be exercised in a way that respects the human rights of the detainees. There is no sensible person who can dispute this reconciliation and stop the pursuit of this reconciliation. In that sense, I would like to reassure anyone who would think that we would not do so. I'm someone with too much patience, some say, but once we go, we go. I am someone who, according to some people, is moving too fast, but once we go, we go. So the decision has been made that we will go. I am told that I have not respected the social dialogue. You're saying I made a unilateral decision with the government. Let us say from the outset that for social consultation there are rules and that I respect them. First, by conducting informal negotiations with trade union representatives for a very long time. As long as I heard them, they still confirmed it. Of course, the aim of informal consultation is, in the best of the worlds, to reach an agreement, but in some cases such an agreement is not yet possible. I believe that, in this case, an agreement – and I will explain to you on what points – was not yet possible. The government must therefore make a proposal to the trade unions through a preliminary draft, which will be the subject of formal consultation. Do not tell me that we did not respect social consultation in the negotiations on the minimum service, as the government agreement also provides! There is, however, a difference of opinion on three points. It's obvious. It is equally clear that these three points could be problematic despite the fact that social consultation could lead to certain concessions. Ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all make it clear that we are in a situation such as in hospitals, where the governor can claim people for the care functions, because patients are being nursed in hospitals who need care and cannot be left behind alone. That we are in a situation such as that of the police, where functions of authority are exercised, functions where someone exercises authority over another citizen. A situation in which these people cease to exercise that authority would put us in a fairly unrighteous position. During a strike, therefore, both care and surveillance must be regulated. That goes without saying; there is no need for a drawing. It is remarkable that this has not yet been done in prison, despite the Council of Europe's Committee on Torture for many years. Mrs Lambrecht, I have heard you talk repeatedly about years; well, here we are talking about years. So it is time to change that. For an optimist, the glass is half full. And a Minister of Justice who is not an optimist should apply for C4. In this case, the glass is half full for a Minister of Justice. As far as the Council of Europe is concerned, we have made significant progress in terms of internment and we will make significant progress in terms of minimum services. I have been to Strasbourg a number of times. Mrs Özen, it is not fun to go to Strasbourg, representing a civilised and rich country, and to hear things as we should read them in the Council of Europe's formal declaration of July last year. We really had to move forward. Colleagues, I want to put three issues before you. It's not all settled. I believe there will be no great concessions to be made to agree on these three points, but they are important. First, for long-term strikes of more than 32 hours, the governor was authorized to requisition prison officers. Why? Because we need a lever that makes this minimal care possible, this monitoring necessary. It is obvious that prison officers and their unions would have preferred a delay of 76 hours. I haven't been insensitive to it so far. But I asked for a stronghold from the unions to guarantee that in this 76-hour period there would be enough men and women. They didn't want to commit to it. Secondly, we have guarded the prison surveillance officers and the directorates against any destatutorization, as they are officials of authority. It's important, it has to be realized. Of course, the others remain statutory, but whatever is done in the future, they will remain statutory. This is the case for the police and the military. Thirdly, we have included in the draft a number of elements relating to the organisation of prisons and the prison system, which have never been regulated by law until now, as well as elements relating to discipline and the formation of prison agents. That's important. This is not only to the satisfaction of the trade unions. You asked me about the course of events. We are going to hold formal consultations in the following weeks, the last week of June and the first week of July. At that time we shall see whether we can reach a protocol of agreement or a protocol of non-agreement. The legislation provides for this at the end of a formal concert. In any event, it is the government's intention to subsequently submit this bill to a second reading and then to the Council of State and to Parliament. Last but not least, I have been asked repeatedly about the staff. Of course, because of a shortage in the labour market in Flanders, I find it difficult to complete management. I'm doing everything I can. I think Wallonia is very early in this area. Every week, I meet with my administration and Selor to improve the situation. We will reach the total number of 6,825 officers promised by Protocol 464.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u58	Minister, I share at least part of your answer. We really need to be optimistic to be the Minister of Justice in our country, given the state of general disrepair in this public service. I can hear your comments. The submission of a text at first reading to the government makes it possible to formally launch social consultation. You intend to play the game of this one. This seems indispensable and elementary to me in our democratic tradition. I heard the three stumbling blocks. I am particularly pleased with the third one that you outlined a little bit about the training of our prison officers. The boat really hurts on this side. We have enormous difficulties. Trade unions and agents have been demanding it for many years. I hope that this is a promise that will be followed up with effect. I hear your answer on the commitments. I see that the knot is always the same. The difficulty is always present. You don't have any solutions. You will not be able to engage the minimum service decently if you have not solved at the same time the problem of recruiting agents. Otherwise, you'll go straight into the wall. You may have requisitions from the governor but with the difficulties associated with this type of practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u59	Minister, I would like to stress that in the last 15 years, the guards have never stopped getting a euro more pay. They have only stopped because they want better working conditions, every day. Your saving policy in recent years has made it almost impossible for the guards to do their job properly. They do not stop to strike and the unions are against long-term strikes. They only ask to be able to do their job in a normal and safe way. When are you going to address the causes of displeasure rather than the displeasure itself? We see two blocks here again very clearly. The majority embraces you and we continue to see the reality. Minister, the reality is that you are making comparisons with the hospital sector. I wonder, then, whether 500 000 days of leave could not be taken there. I don't think so. We need to compare the right things with each other. I will continue to argue for a good minimum prison policy instead of that minimum service. You have to make sure there's no stopping. If you succeed, I will tell you that the glass is half full. For us, it's half empty now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u60	Are you gonna hug me too?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u61	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u62	Minister, the right to strike is, of course, fundamental but not absolute. What I hear from you is that there is a balanced proposal on the table. I therefore expect reasonableness in the social dialogue. Mr Lambrecht, before you say that we ask the guards for the impossible or the inhumane, I should like to give some figures. In Europe, on average, three prisoners are guarded by one guard. In Belgium there are 1.68 prisoners for one guard. So saying that we ask of them the impossible is a little exaggerated. Minister, I believe that we find each other in the solution, and I wish you every good courage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u63	Minister, thank you for your answer. You said something very important: first of all, it is not a question of questioning the right to strike and, moreover, human rights must be respected. Given the particular context of prisons and the relationship of authority that you mentioned, it is absolutely normal to seek that balance. My group will, of course, encourage you to reach this minimum service, which was announced in the government statement. We cannot pretend that we have gone too fast, since we are now four years after this one. So the idea is on its way. I hope that before the end of this Parliament, the glass you have just emptied will be full again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u64	Minister, not only did you not honour the commitments you made during the last general strike, but you also declared the ultimatum while the social negotiations are still taking place. Cherry on the cake: you want to place your project on the minimum service, which is really the snake that bites its tail. In fact, there are structural problems in our prisons because of a disinvestment in prison staff, who must fulfil their tasks under disastrous conditions. This also leads, quite simply, to a deterioration of the conditions of detention; not to mention the state of disrepair of some institutions, which aggravates the indignity experienced by detainees. Minister, you always claim that you comply with European directives. However, our country spends less than 0.5% of its GDP on justice, while the European average is 2.2%. Start by reaching this level by allocating budget resources to your department! That would already be very ambitious on your part.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. However, I still have three things to say. Firstly, I hear the trade unions say that minimum service provision is an attack on the right to strike, but it is not, because we are not abolishing the right to strike. We simply want to guarantee at least the rights of the detainees, and I do not think that anyone can oppose that. I am actually a little surprised that the trade unions and some others almost subjugated the rights of the detainees to their own unlimited right to strike. Secondly, Mrs Lambrecht, you are right that there are a lot of unrecorded leave days, but I would advise you to look at the link between those leave days and the syndical leave, because many colleagues have to show up and cannot take their leave because of that syndical leave. I'll get you the numbers. (Tumult) I'll get you the numbers. I imagine you don't want to see it. Thirdly, very important, left-wing parties are calling for more investment here today. I really agree with that and they are working on it, but they forget a little that during all those years in which the government was involved in the past legislatures, the left did not really want to invest in security. Investing in prisons was certainly not a priority then, but they wanted to spend 270 million for a new station in Mons, Mrs Özen. Do you know how many new prisons you can build for that, how many staff you can recruit with it? [[Tumult]] That was your choice, but those were the wrong choices that were made at the time. This government is correcting it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u66	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u67	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 June 2018, I propose that you postpone the discussion of the following points to the plenary session of 28 June 2018: - the draft law on the first adjustment of the Resources Budget for the financial year 2018, Nos 3036/1 to 3; - the draft law amending for the first time the general expenditure budget for the financial year 2018, Nos 3037/1 to 6; - adjustment of the budgets of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2018. General Explanatory Notes No. 3035/1; - the 2018 budgetary adjustment of the Chamber of Representatives, No. 3134/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 June 2018, I propose that you defer the discussion of the following items to the plenary meeting on 28 June 2018: - the Bill containing the first adjustment to the Ways and Means budget for the 2018 fiscal year, Nos. 3036/1 to 3; - Bill containing the first adjustment to the 2018 General Estimates, Nos. 3037/1 to 6; - adjustment of revenue and expenditure budgets for the 2018 budget year. General presentation, No. 3035/1; - the 2018 budget adjustment of the House of Representatives, No. 3134/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 June 2018, I propose that you register on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: the legislative proposal (Mrs Alain Top, Mr Dirk Van der Maelen, Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mr Benoit Hellings and Mr Sébastian Pirlot) establishing a review framework for the evaluation of Belgian foreign military missions, No. 2471/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 June 2018, I propose that you place on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: the bill (MM. Alain Top, Dirk Van der Maelen, Wouter De Vriendt, Benoit Hellings and Sebastian Pirlot) establishing an analytical framework for assessing Belgian military missions abroad, No. 2471/1. The Committee on Defence proposes that this proposal be rejected. The National Defence Commission proposes to reject this proposal. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u68	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Conseil Degroote, Koen Metsu, Brecht Vermeulen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u69	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u70	The proposal now also allows police colleges, but not police councils, to meet electronically, as was possible for the relief areas a few months ago. A very important condition is that all members of the college agree to this way of working. After all, a number of colleagues were concerned that only an exclusive virtual meeting would be held. Thanks to the agreement, these concerns are met. Several organisations, such as the Association of Flemish Cities and Municipalities, were asking parties for electronic meetings. The areas of assistance, which have already been introduced by electronic meetings, are highly praised for the measure. The proposal was adopted unanimously with one abstention. So I'm counting on a broad majority later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u71	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u72	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2270/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2270/4) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u73	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u74	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Vincent Van Peteghem, Hendrik Bogaert, Roel Deseyn, Leen Dierick, Nahima Lanjri, Jef Van den Bergh, Servais Verherstraeten, Franky Demon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u75	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u76	Mr President, the bill was adopted unanimously. I can still refer to an amendment tabled by Mr Van Peteghem, because the Council of State had pointed out a problem relating to the presumption of innocence. The comment was met by introducing a period of 30 days for the holder of the license plate. I believe that this legislative proposal will also be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u77	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u78	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3018/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3018/5) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal to amend the Law of 24 June 2013 on municipal administrative sanctions in respect of traffic infringements which may be subject to municipal and administrative sanctions." The title has been amended by the commission to propose a law amending the Act of 24 June 2013 on communal administrative penalties with regard to road offences that may be subject to municipal administrative sanctions." The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u79	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u80	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Vanessa Matz, Isabelle Poncelet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u81	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Alain Top and Mr Franky Demon and Mrs Monica De Coninck, rapporteurs, referred to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u82	Mr President, the present legislative proposal provides for compensation for damage caused by intentional acts of violence against policemen outside the scope of their duties. Members of the CdH, based on a judgment of the Constitutional Court, believe that there is discrimination if this is not regulated. We can follow that argument. Various opinions were sought. There were two concerns, including the budgetary impact. For this reason, Mr Metsu, among others, tabled an amendment in order not to introduce the measure retroactively. The legislative proposal was adopted unanimously for the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u83	Mr President, thank you. As a co-author of a text tabled by my colleague Mrs Matz, I would like to say a few words. Violence against police and relief workers is not a myth. As an illustration, in 2014 and 2015, there were approximately 8,000 incidents of violence against police officers against just over 100 of them. Unfortunately, during the Saint-Sylvestre, violence against firefighters was rampant in the capital and elsewhere in Belgium. These facts are unacceptable. Members of the police and relief services are at the service of our citizens and zero tolerance must be applied when they are victims of violence in connection with their profession. This bill has the merit of extending the special allowance to officials who are victims of an intentional act of violence committed outside the scope of their duties if the act is directly related to the performance of those functions. It should be noted that the proposed law aims to remedy an existing situation. Currently, members of the police and relief services who are victims of intentional acts of violence receive compensation, but on condition that the violence was caused during the service, which excludes intentional acts of violence committed outside the service, even if it is an extension of the service. In the current context where police officers are increasingly targeted because they are police officers, the adoption of such a bill is therefore an important step forward for the protection of law enforcement personnel. I would also like to thank the members of the committee for having adopted this proposal unanimously. I hope it will be the same later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u84	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u85	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (278/8) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (278/8) The title was changed by the committee to "draft law amending the law of 1 August 1985 on tax and other provisions." The title has been amended by the Commission to "proposal for a law amending the Act of 1 August 1985 on tax and other measures". The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u86	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u87	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u88	Mr President, I note that neither of the relevant ministers is present, but I will not make it difficult for Mr Bacquelaine to attend. In the current situation, when applying for a pilot licence, someone must download a registration form on the website of the FPS Mobility. This form is then sent to one of the federations, Flemish or French speaking, which are responsible for the management and follow-up of the file. This is a matter which, to date, is largely a matter for the federations, some of which are recognized and subsidised by the Länder. According to the new law, it becomes a federal jurisdiction. Under the special law of 8 August 1980, the regions must be involved, whatever has happened. The Walloon Region and the Flemish Region have given their agreement. However, the bill is a real framework law, which leaves a great deal to the King. It will be by royal decree that the way in which the examinations are organised will be determined. It will also be by royal decree that it will be decided how to prove the practical experience required in future. What will happen de facto? We do not know with the present bill. In fact, the draft law leaves everything in the dark. In any case, I hope that we will continue to cooperate with the recognized federations, which now have an important role to play in practice; otherwise we will have to deal with a new phenomenon, a kind of de facto refederalisation, in which something that now lies in the facts of the Länder goes to the federal government in law. I would like to point out that it would be very illogical if there were no longer any cooperation with the federations. The Maritime School has long been a member of the Communities, which must conclude a cooperation agreement on this subject. If I compare the certificate with the licence, then I can see clearly how contradictory our division of competence legislation has become. The certificate is still at the federal level, while the licence training and examination scheme has been transferred to the Länder since the sixth state reform, as has the recognition conditions for the examination centres. So that is a certain contradiction that leads to a fairly chaotic division of powers. My group is in favour of drawing some clear lines as soon as possible, and at the latest in 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u89	There are no other speakers. Mr Vuye's reservations will of course be included in the report and I assume that they will be taken to heart by the government. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u90	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3105/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3105/4) The draft law has 31 articles. The bill has 31 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u91	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u92	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Siegfried Bracke.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u93	The discussion of the single article has been opened. The general discussion of the single article is open. Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u94	Mr President, I would like to remind you, with regard to this item on the agenda, that the agreement that we are about to approve refers to legislation that does not yet exist and should therefore be adopted as soon as possible. We wish to draw attention once again to this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u95	Thank you for that remark, Mr. Laaouej. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u96	The discussion of the Single Rule is closed. The vote on the proposal will take place later. The discussion on the single article is closed. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u97	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Catherine Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u98	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u99	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u100	Mr President, I will speak quickly since the Minister of Pensions is present so that he will not have come for nothing. If for some time I had tabled this bill, it is because it is a priority to have a strong first legal pillar in the area of pensions, but also because it is also important, by supplementing it with a second pillar, to have the beginning of this second pillar stick to the first by linking it with the entire professional career in order to lower the minimum age of membership to a supplementary pension plan of 25 to 18 years. This allows workers to create supplementary pension rights from the beginning of their professional careers to supplement this legal pension, which is all the more important because the level of pensions in Belgium remains relatively low compared to all the countries around us. If I intervene today, it is because I find it a pity that the government did not transpose this European directive earlier. In this case, it provides for an entry into force on 21 May 2018. It's almost the end of June! The Council of State had already dealt with the initial draft law, but you have postponed it again by means of an amendment which was not submitted to the Council of State. With the entry into force in 2019, the question can be raised as to whether this is in proper compliance with the European directive, which, I would remind you, was due to enter into force on 21 May 2018. For the rest, we will support this mechanism, to which we are in favour. By its content, it joins the bill which will therefore be transposed through this government bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u101	Mr President, I once again wanted to stress the progress made in voting for this adaptation of our legislation to the European directive. This is, of course, intended to make supplementary pensions even more general, so that any worker who takes up the task of being able to benefit from a second pillar without having to wait until the age of 25 or without having to give up his second pillar if he changes his employer very quickly. At the same time, it was intended to take account of the administrative difficulties which this might entail for a number of companies, giving them time to adapt to the introduction of this directive. It is important that each company can adapt the second pillar procedures to the constraints of the new directive. I, too, regret that in the Committee on Social Affairs - not by the government - there have been some procrastinations in the run-up to the analysis of this bill. Today, everything is in order and I think that we can take note of this significant progress on the second pillar.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u102	Mr President, just for the facts, I would like to reiterate that this directive dates from 16 April 2014 for an entry into force which, on the basis of the directive, was normally scheduled for February 2018. It must be said here, however, that the government has had ample opportunity to do things well in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u103	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u104	Minister, I think that on April 16, 2014, we were already in a particular period. At some point, you have to be honest. You've been a minister for some time. I think you haven't forgotten. But we are in favour of the content of this text. I repeat that it is a pity that the government has not come in time, in compliance with the transposition of the directive. On the substance, we will support this proposal, since we ourselves had tabled in due course a bill transposing the directive to the benefit of the workers concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u105	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u106	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3079/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3079/5) The title was amended by the Commission in draft legislation transposing Directive 2014/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on minimum requirements for increasing the mobility of workers between Member States by improving the acquisition and maintenance of supplementary pension rights." The title was amended by the committee in draft law on the transposition of Directive 2014/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on minimum requirements to increase the mobility of workers between Member States by improving the acquisition and preservation of supplementary pension rights." The draft law has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u107	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u108	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Gilles Vanden Burre, Stefaan Van Hecke.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u109	The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Public Prosecutor proposes that this bill be rejected. (1994/4) The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service proposes to reject this bill. (1994/4) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. The rapporteurs are Ms Katja Gabriels and Mr Conseil Degroote. Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre. Mr Vanden Burre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our bill, which I am here to defend before you today, aims to avoid conflicts of interest. It is a scourge that we all want to fight in this House and that we, as environmentalists, are particularly interested in. The specific objective of this legislation is to avoid conflicts of interest when a minister or chief of staff leaves his or her office as minister to perform in the private sector in the same business line. For example, today, in Belgium, the Minister of Agriculture, who is in charge of AFSCA, can resign on Monday and Tuesday, start working at VEVIBA. The Minister of Energy can move from day to day as a lobbyist at ENGIE Electrabel. Another example is that the Chief of Staff of the Minister of Telecommunications, who has the tutelage on Proximus, could overnight pass in charge, administrator or CEO of Orange, the main private competitor of Proximus. In Belgium, nothing prevents this kind of fictitious situation which I have just taken as an example at random of each other's skills. It is against this that we wish to make proposals. In practical terms, this text provides for a buffer period of 18 months, in order to avoid this type of conflict of interest. What we hope, above all, at the level of my group, is to be able to open the debate in the face of this scourge of conflict of interest, which, beyond the fundamental notions of good governance and ethics in politics, widens the gap between our citizens and the political world a little more every day. We must therefore act. What I really regret is that there has been no in-depth debate in committee. Our proposal was not "take it or leave it." Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you have refused to hold hearings, you have refused a debate in depth. That is what I regret and which brings me before you today in plenary. Finally, our proposal is realistic and proportionate. It is based on what is being done in many countries, so it is not completely disconnected or out of reality. Australia, Norway and France introduced a buffer period. Chile, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain and Portugal all have buffer periods for the executive. Canada, Germany, Ireland, Korea, Mexico, Slovenia and the United States have buffer periods for both the executive and the legislative – which we do not even ask for in our text. So we are part of a reality. We wish to be the pioneers of good governance with this text. I have taken the example of Canada, from which we are inspired in our text. Ministers and members of the House of Commons cannot lobby that could lead to a conflict of interest for five years after leaving their positions. They cannot lobby public administrations and cannot arrange meetings between an official and another person. Ladies and gentlemen, we are asking that this text be referred back to committee in order to hold a substantive debate, with the organisation of hearings, in order to arrive at a proposal that will allow us to move forward on the subject. Today, in Belgium, there is nothing and for us, environmentalists, it is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u111	As provided for in the Rules of Procedure, one of the rapporteurs may also be given the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal has in fact already been discussed in the Working Party on Political Renewal. In the Committee on the Interior, the petitioner was repeatedly reminded that the proposal in question was not retained in the working group and that it was therefore in fact pointless to continue the discussion in committee. However, the proposal was discussed three times and everyone was able to express their views in a democratic manner. Article 1 of the proposal was voted out by 11 votes to 5 and consequently the whole proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u113	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject the bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u114	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Alain Top, Dirk Van der Maelen, Wouter De Vriendt, Benoit Hellings, Sébastian Pirlot. The Land Defense Committee proposes that the bill be rejected. (2471/2) The National Defence Commission proposes to reject this bill. (2471/2) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on the proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the time of the World Cup we notice that every football match is being thoroughly evaluated before, during and after. Fine and also useful to improve the game, most of us think. However, strikingly, football matches are much more and better evaluated here than our military missions abroad, military missions in which human lives and various international interests are at stake. Measuring to know is important and logical in most parts of society. Defence must take its role as an example and must not be an exception. In order to know whether something went well, we need to set objectives in advance and to be able to weigh them up afterwards. If necessary, mid-term evaluation and review may be carried out or conclusions may be drawn after completion which may have a positive impact on future missions. Colleagues, briefings may take place behind closed doors in the special committee responsible for the follow-up of foreign missions and occasionally a hearing is held in the Defence Committee, but objectives are never weighed at the beginning or end of an operation. On foreign military missions, our citizens have the right to know who is responsible for mistakes made, for progress in the file and for whether or not there are civilian casualties. The Belgian transparency on military missions is limited to reporting on those missions in the special committee responsible for the follow-up of foreign missions behind closed doors. In that committee they only report on progress during military missions. The objectives set prior to the mission or the results at the end of the mission are hardly ever reported. The question is whether the government will then be satisfied with the results of the mission and whether the objectives set have been achieved. These are important questions that are currently being answered too little. In addition, evaluations help the image of Defence and the military in a positive way. The useful work of our soldiers is better reflected in this. Such visibility can certainly reduce the gap with citizens. In the Netherlands, for example, this has been done for more than 20 years through a review framework, as in our proposal. The mission in Libya was also evaluated in the United Kingdom. It did not point the finger at the military, but important lessons were drawn for future operations. In the Netherlands, for example, an evaluation of the mission in Mali, where we are present, was published last week. It is urgent that our country also take steps to work even more efficiently on military missions in the future. In the end, that's the core business of our Defense Department. Colleagues, the Netherlands may not participate in the World Cup, but it is many steps further in terms of the transparency and evaluation of its military missions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u116	The rapporteur is Mr Miller, who refers to the written report. No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u117	By letter dated 21 May 2018, Ms Danielle Nicaise, Registrar of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision, announced that she would retire on 1 May 2019. By letter dated May 21, 2018, Ms.Danielle Nicaise, Clerk of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services, announced that she would retire on May 1, 2019. In accordance with Article 5 of the Law of 18 July 1991 regulating the supervision of police and intelligence services, the Registrar of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Police Services is appointed by the Chamber. Pursuant to section 5 of the Act of 18 July 1991 on the Control of Police and Intelligence Services, the Registrar of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services is appointed by the House. The Chamber should therefore appoint a new Registrar. It is therefore up to the House to appoint a new clerk. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 June 2018, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 June 2018, I propose that you publish a call for candidates for the Belgian Monitor. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u118	The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of a councillor to the Dutch Chamber of Auditors. The next item is the election for the appointment of an adviser to the Dutch Chamber of the Court of Auditors. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 3 May 2018. Nominations were announced in plenary on 3 May 2018. The Sub-Committee "Rekenhof' heard all candidates on 12 June 2018. Mr Luk Van Biesen, Chair of the Subcommittee, reported on this hearing at the Conference of Presidents of 20 June 2018. The Sub-Committee on the Court of Auditors heard all the candidates on 12 June 2018. Mr Luk Van Biesen, Chairman of the Sub-Committee, reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 20 June 2018. The document containing the names of the candidates has been distributed (Doc. 3163/01). The document bearing the names of the candidates was distributed to you (Doc. No 3163/1). The ballots have already been distributed. Ballot papers have already been distributed. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. To vote, one must place a cross in the box next to the name of the chosen candidate. The votes cast on more than one candidate shall be invalid. A vote should be taken by drawing a cross in the box opposite the name of the selected candidate. The votes cast in favour of more than one candidate are void. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I would, however, suggest that we appoint the youngest two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Miss Yoleen Van Camp are appointed to record the votes. Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp are designated to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. At the call of his name, each member is asked to submit his unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum, from my left to my right. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call. Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? The vote is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u119	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Mr De Vriendt has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u120	Mr President, we are calling for urgent consideration to be given to the proposal for resolution No. 3184 by our group, on the separation of children from their parents by the American government. My colleague, Mrs Almaci, has just asked a topical question. Normally, the text has arrived, especially among the group leaders.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u121	I would just call on him to be added to the list of recitals. We shall then vote on urgency. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 June 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Vincent Scourneau cs) on the "Be-Alertia" system for mass reporting to the population, in order to report the disappearances of minors, No. 3174/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u122	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Benoit Hellings cs) on the separation of children from their parents by the US authorities, No. 3184/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u123	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 June 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Vincent Scourneau et al.) to extend the system of mass notification of the population to cases of disappearances of minors, No 3174/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u124	- the motion for a resolution (MM. Wouter De Vriendt, Benoit Hellings et al.) concerning the separation of children from their parents by the United States Government, No. 3184/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u125	Mr De Vriendt called for the urgency of this motion for a resolution. I suggest we speak out and sit down and get up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u126	Mr President, I would like to motivate this, if I may.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u127	You may.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u128	Mr President, the practice we have seen over the past few days has been cruel and inhumane, has been condemned worldwide and has created a world-wide bewilderment. So also in this house, across party boundaries. President Trump's decision to stop this practice now does not mean that there will be a solution for the children who are already locked in cages. Our resolution aims at the federal government discussing this issue at the European summit at the end of this month. We also ask that the government call on the United States to ratify the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Just now, the Foreign Minister, Mr Reynders, replied to our colleague, Mrs Almaci, that this is indeed necessary in order to avoid such situations. The danger has not passed yet, colleagues. That is why we believe that this issue should be discussed urgently in the Committee on External Relations. I hope that colleagues from all groups will follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u129	May I ask that those who support the urgency stand up now?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u130	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on the payment of pensions, allowances and interest in the public sector, No. 3180/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on the payment of public sector pensions, allowances and annuities, No. 3180/1, was introduced. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u131	Mr. Chairman, this is a bill describing the legal framework for the migration of the system of payment of civil servants' pensions, allowances and war rents to a new system. The old system, dating back to the 1970s, is obsolete. It must be replaced. Indeed, the hardware provider has announced that it no longer deals with repairs or technical maintenance. We must proceed in two phases, the first of which takes place on 1 July. So you'll understand that we're asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u132	This inquiry was developed in the public meeting of the Social Affairs Committee on 13 June 2018. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Social Affairs Committee of 13 June 2018. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 267/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Stefaan Vercamer. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 267/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Stefaan Vercamer. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u133	Mr President, the current situation is very good, since the EPSCO has today adopted a very general approach – at least it is possible to say so – to the Work Life Balance Directive. I cannot help but quote Marianne Thyssen, who said that she was "very disappointed that the European Commission's proposal has been severely diluted by the Member States". I find it regrettable that Belgium took part in this small game of emptying Marianne Thyssen's ambitions since, contrary to what it should have done, Belgium was not at the side of families – and women, in particular – to allow a better balance between work and family life. Belgium should have been at the forefront to pull Europe up, but it participated in this little game, in fine, to pull the families down with a flexibility that goes only in one direction. That's too bad! I had rather been positive, Mr. Chairman, since I had tabled a motion of recommendation, but I understand better, a week later, why you, colleagues in the majority, have tabled a simple motion. This obviously reflected your will and your attitude in this matter. You really pulled the families down, while your responsibility was to pull the families up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u134	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u135	Yes 75 Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u136	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2270/5) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2270/5) Mrs Smeyers voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u137	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 131 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3018/6) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3018/6) Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention? )
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u138	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (278/9) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (278/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u139	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 125 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3105/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3105/5) Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention? )
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u140	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 125 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 131 Total The Court therefore accepts the proposal. It will be brought to the attention of the Senate and the Regional and Community Assembly. (2982/4) Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. This will be made known to the Senate and to the regional and community assemblies. (2982/4) Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u141	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 128 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 132 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3079/6) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3079/6) Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention? )
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u142	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u143	Mr President, I have a vote with colleague Rita Bellens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u144	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 73 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 1994/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 1994/1 is therefore rejected. (Mr Hendrik Bogaert voted in favour) Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention? )
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u145	Votes 120 Votants Blank or invalid 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. White or invalid Valid 118 Valables Perfect majority 60 Absolute majority Mr Wilfried Berten obtained 37 votes. Mr Wilfried Beerten won 37 votes. Mrs. Margit Francken has won one vote. Mrs Margit Franken obtained 1 vote. Mr Marc Galle obtained 3 votes. Mr. Marc Galle obtained 3 votes. Mr Walter Schroons has received 70 votes. Mr Walter Schroons won 70 votes. Mr Frank Smet has won one vote. Mr. Frank Smet won one vote. Mrs Nele Verhoeven has received six votes. Ms. Nele Verhoeven won 6 votes. Since Mr Walter Schroons obtained 70 votes, this is the absolute majority, he was appointed Counselor at the Court of Auditors (Dutch Chamber). Mr Walter Schroons, having obtained 70 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, was appointed an adviser to the Court of Auditors (Netherlands Chamber).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u146	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[74]] Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. So 2471/1 was rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 2471/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-21-54-plenair-ip234x.u147	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Wednesday 27 June and Thursday 28 June 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sittings of Wednesday, 27 June and Thursday, 28 June 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 27 June 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, 27 June 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
