ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Crusnière's 22543 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u2	Mr President, Minister, my question dates from December, but was then postponed. I submitted this question in response to a strike which then took place in Merksplas and which forced police forces to be reclaimed. My question was to know the state of play with regard to minimum services. Even though my question was postponed at that time, it is again topical today. I read yesterday in a message from Belga that you did indeed sit with the security staff. The trade unions ask for additional recruitments and have given you a deadline for doing so, but they claim that it is not enough yet. You would have made a proposal, too. This week will be crucial. You should not negotiate in this committee, nor is that the subject of my question. The most important thing, however, is this. There's another strike wave being announced. If the questions are not addressed, a major national strike will be organised as in 2016. At that time it was mainly in the French-speaking part of the country. If there is a strike wave coming now, this minimum service will be a crucial story. Look at what happened back then. The minimum service would be provided by the end of last year. A new year has now begun. The Netherlands was told, in the context of the surrender, that the minimum service would be available by the end of 2017. Perhaps the Dutch objections to handing people over to Belgium might be dismissed. However, the minimum service is not yet available. Minister, what is the current state of affairs with regard to minimum service provision in prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u3	Mr.President, Mr.Minister, it is true that your policy note of 2018 highlighted "the need for a guaranteed service to ensure continuity of care for inmates awaiting appropriate placement in facilities and for any other person suffering from psychiatric conditions in detention." You announced that "Justice will continue to invest as much as possible in social dialogue so that conflicts that could jeopardize these basic rights can be avoided." My party has never underestimated the importance of establishing a minimum service in prisons, this service being elementary, both during strikes and incidents. As a reminder, on the weekend of 31 December, the staff of the Saint-Gilles prison decided to operate on minimum service for a period of 48 hours following an attack by one of its members. We understand this reaction. The visits were therefore suspended during the holiday period, a sensitive period for detainees and their families. On 15 March, other colleagues asked you about the status of this minimum service project in prisons. You then stated that "the government has informed the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture that it intends to conclude a framework agreement on the organisation of the continuity of detention by next summer" (2017). Since then, we have still not been aware of a framework agreement. On the contrary, we have taken note of a new statement by the Council of Europe's European Committee for the Prevention of Torture which strongly denounces "the continuing failure of the Belgian authorities to establish a minimum service to guarantee respect for the rights of persons detained in social movements engaged by prison staff". Minister, can you tell me what is the current state of negotiations with the unions and prison directors? Why would consultation be halted or not progressed at the desired pace? Do you have a specific schedule for the introduction of this minimum service, which means that staff managers must be supplemented? Are any specific measures envisaged in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u4	Mr President, Mr Maingain, Mrs De Wit, first of all I would like to refer to the answer I gave to your colleague, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, in this committee in mid-December. As set out in the Government Agreement and in my Justice Plan, I have actually started informal consultations with trade unions on the establishment of a guaranteed minimum service. During its thematic Council of Ministers in the summer of 2016, the government also confirmed that the approach to this issue would be part of a more comprehensive legislative initiative on the organization of prison services and the status of prison staff. I will not hide the fact that the unions of prison staff are not a party asking for such legislation. However, I am of the opinion that, during the various informal discussions I had with those responsible for these organizations, the minds have grown to an important extent. However, trade unions continue to prefer a protocol arrangement. I am convinced that important steps have been taken during this consultation to further optimise the phase of dealing with a social conflict in order to prevent strikes or at least minimise them. During the last consultation, which I had with the trade unions at the end of 2017, I announced that the legislative process of the bill providing for, inter alia, this arrangement will be launched shortly after New Year. I therefore intend to table this bill in the Justice Committee as soon as a consensus has been reached in the Council of Ministers. I am not yet in a position to provide a precise timetable, because other bodies such as the Finance Inspectorate and the Council of State must also deliver their opinions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u5	I note, Minister, that the draft law will be dealt with in this committee, following consensus in the Council of Ministers. That's the most important thing for me. I would always like to help if it was not allowed to go so smoothly in the Council of Ministers, because we have prepared a proposal on this subject ourselves. I'd like to be of service to you and present our proposal. Then that can also be discussed with a view to consensus in the committee. All madness, Minister, minimum service is an important issue which was included in the coalition agreement. I am glad that you have been negotiating for a long time, which is important, but at some point we have to move forward. That is essential to avoid further convictions. In addition, every time other services, policemen or soldiers, have to take over those tasks. I believe those people already have their hands full with other tasks. I am glad to hear that the legislative work on the guaranteed or minimum service, or whatever it is called, is coming and I cannot wait until we can begin the discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u6	Very briefly, Mr President, we expect, like the conveyors, that there will be no pigeons in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u7	Mr Minister, I had previously put these three questions on the agenda in writing, but because they were not answered in good time, I was obliged to put them orally. The first question concerns life in prisons, a different question from the one I asked a few weeks ago in response to the Court of Auditors' report. That question had already been submitted. After all, I regularly receive complaints about the costs and quality of food and other products that prisoners can purchase in prisons. In some places the supplier would be very expensive and the prison would charge 7 to 10 percent extra on top of the purchase price. In addition, there is of most products but a brand available, often not the cheapest. Certain prisons also have certain rules on keeping food, for example how many pieces of each product the prisoners are allowed to keep. This means that prisoners have to return purchased food or it is taken away by the penitentiary staff. I have the following specific questions. Is it true that the selling price of foodstuffs and other products in certain prisons is very high and that the supply varies considerably between prisons? What's your reaction to that? What actions do you plan to address this problem? Is it true that there are rules in certain prisons about keeping food? Is every prison free to lay down its own rules? What's your reaction to that? What possibilities do you see for relaxing the rules if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u8	Mr Van Hecke, since the canteens of the establishments are organized locally using local suppliers, the range varies considerably between the different establishments. Through mass purchases, the establishments receive discounts from the suppliers. These discounts are not passed on to the detainees, but are booked into the support fund. That support fund is used exclusively for the benefit of the detainees and can therefore be considered as a form of solidarity mechanism which also allows less wealthy or incompetent detainees to acquire certain goods or products. As for your second question, the canteens of each establishment are adapted specifically to the target group present in the establishment. There is a great diversity with own needs, for example vegetarian or halal. There are also huge differences between the establishments themselves in terms of the composition of the population, accused, convicted and so on, which has an impact on the organisation of the cafeteria. For example, detention houses have a large turnover and have to adapt their canteens to this: several days of canteening. For this reason, the facilities differ greatly in terms of operation and approach of the canteens. In view of these differences, we have no intention of adjusting the current regime. Thirdly, in most establishments there is no restriction on ordering the number of products. The teachings, more specifically the collective letter No. 113 on the goods of the prisoner, nevertheless, provide that the Director may impose restrictions. Those possible limitations are mainly due to security reasons. The volume of goods and products present shall not prevent the normal execution of the monitoring and control orders. The restrictions are also based on sanitary and hygiene rules. This is particularly true for perishable products. In reply to your fourth question, it can generally be said that there is no restriction on the storage of products or foodstuffs on cell. The prisoners themselves are responsible for their preservation upon receipt of the cafeteria. A fridge is present in all establishments, either in the cell itself or in the section of the prison, to store the products. It is, of course, important that the sanitary and hygiene conditions in the living area are monitored and that safety procedures can be carried out. If a good balance can be found in this respect, I believe that the existing regulation still complies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u9	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. I understand and know that the system exists. There is indeed a social fund which also allows prisoners who are more difficult to buy a number of products. It's a very good system. It is important that attention should always be paid and that products should be purchased as cheaply as possible, provided that good negotiations are conducted. Most inmates also have little income. This is therefore an important point of attention for those who have often been locked up for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u10	Mr Minister, this question was also put in writing earlier. Prisoners are dependent on the subscriptions available to prisons for telephony and television. I hope there haven't been too many Proximus subscribers in the last few days, because then it probably wasn't that nice to work. The rates would be very high. In 2014, you confirmed this in the reply to a written question from then MP Khattabi. Moreover, offerings and services change when a prison chooses another provider. In any case, it doesn't seem that much has changed. There is, however, PrisonCloud, a digital service platform along which inmates can also watch and call television. In early 2016, you announced that the system would be implemented in all prisons within three years. Firstly, in which prisons has the system already been installed and which prisons will soon be in place? Secondly, do you expect to achieve the timing for full deployment in all prisons in early 2019? Thirdly, how much has the installation cost to the government so far? I liked to get an overview per prison. Fourthly, how much is the full roll-out expected to cost, approximately? Fifthly, how is the system evaluated, both by prisoners and penitentiary staff, in the prisons where it is already used? Sixthly, what does PrisonCloud mean for the tariffs and the offers of telephony, internet and television, which are passed on to the inmates? Seventh, is it true that these rates are still very high in certain prisons? What has happened since 2014 to address this problem? Are there major differences between the prisons? I would like to get an overview of the rates per prison. That is why I had first submitted my question in writing. What actions do you plan to solve the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u11	Mr Van Hecke, my intentions for the new year are even better than those for the previous year. So I'll do my best. Currently, PrisonCloud is active in the criminal institutions of Beveren, Leuze-en-Hainaut and Marche-en-Famenne. In the construction of the new penal facilities, the installation of a service platform for detainees is added to the specifications. In the existing facilities, cabling is initially provided up to cell level, then installing cell telephony. The cell cabling project is currently under way. The bids for the project telephony on cell were evaluated and are currently being validated. The cabling is the basic infrastructure to which PrisonCloud can be connected. The roll-out of PrisonCloud by early 2019 is not realistic for budgetary reasons. After all, the cost of the digital platform is important. As far as cell telephony is concerned, the installation will be in full swing at that time. The cost of installing PrisonCloud amounts to EUR 1,314 million for Beveren prison, EUR 821,000 for Leuze and EUR 1,297 million for Marche. The cost of the telephony file includes 2.5 million investment costs and 4 million annual operating costs. It is difficult to make a somewhat reliable estimate of the cost of the total roll-out of PrisonCloud in all prisons. You already notice important differences between the three listed establishments, which have an equal capacity. The capacity of the devices varies between 32 and 694 cells, independently of other differences in architectural infrastructure. It would be a more than virtual exercise to simply extrapolate the known amounts to that capacity. Each additional installation will therefore have to be preceded by a study. A survey on the functioning of PrisonCloud was conducted in Beveren's criminal court. Based on the answers we received from the inmates, we can report that the system generally gets a good to very good score. Community services also see opportunities in the platform to offer digital training programmes. Most of the services offered are free of charge for the inmates. However, there are also paying services such as video on demand. The price of this depends on the type of film rented and the market conformity. As far as TV and radio are concerned, all inmates receive standard four TV channels plus all available radio channels. If the prisoner so wishes, he or she may receive, for a monthly amount, all available channels for a target price of EUR 17, depending on the prison. If the prisoner wishes to make a telephone call, he or she must pay for it. The rates depend on the number called, the country, zone and peak or valley hours, as shown below. The inmate can also rent a PC, like in the prisons without PrisonCloud. He or she pays a monthly rental target price of 15 euros depending on the prison. Indeed, tariffs for telephony are currently relatively high. Just before, the cell telephony project was proposed not only with a view to improving the accessibility of telephones but also with a view to market-based tariffs. The evaluation of tenders is currently being finalised. We therefore hope to be able to award the new system as soon as possible in order to provide all the establishments with the new system as soon as possible. The adjusted rates will then be possible to be introduced from then on. I will provide the secretariat of the committee with an overview of the current rates.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer. The aim must be to ensure that rates are as low as possible. Attention should be paid to this in the drafting of the CSFs and the conclusion of contracts. Telephone is often one of the few contacts with the outside world for the prisoner. If prices are too high, this can put a brake on maintaining the necessary contacts, especially when telephone calls are made with abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u13	Mr Minister, I would like to return to a dossier on which several questions have been raised in the past, in particular the famous Panorama dossiers. A number of issues relating to the research promised remain unclear. In reply to my previous question, you stated that after you had heard from the Supreme Court that you could not examine those files in the context of the current audit, you informed the victims of this and advised them to lodge a written complaint with the Supreme Court of Justice. You also provided them with the appropriate form. According to my information, several interested parties have indeed lodged an individual complaint with the Supreme Court of Justice. However, it held that it had no jurisdiction and relied on Article 259a of the Civil Code. That article states that the Supreme Court is not competent to rule on the content of a judgment. However, the complaints concern the progress of the expertise and the judicial procedure preceding this judgment, in particular the medical expert reports drawn up by certain legal experts. You also stated at the end of 2016 that your cabinet had contacted the Flemish Patient Platform, but that it did not wish to cooperate. According to my information, there have been several consultations with regard to the establishment of the register and the associated deontological code between your cabinet and the platform. I therefore have the following questions, Minister. Firstly, is the Supreme Court of Justice or is it not responsible for examining the so-called Panorama files? If not, do you agree to their interpretation of the said article? Then who is competent? If so, for what reason has the Supreme Court indicated that it does not wish to investigate? Secondly, according to my information, your cabinet was indeed aware of the decision of the Supreme Court of Justice. There would also have been several invitations to sit with alleged victims of false medical reports in the preparation for amendment of the law establishing a register of legal experts. Why didn't you go into that? Have you had any contact with the victims in any way? Thirdly, what steps will you take in the short term in order to be able to investigate the listed files, as you promised after the transmission of the Panorama portage in question? Finally, what specific question did you contact the Flemish Patient Platform? What was their answer? What were the results of the contacts?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u14	Mr Van Hecke, first of all I would like to refer to my answer to your question of 16 December 2016, which already addressed the powers of the Supreme Court of Justice. You know that I cannot intervene specifically in the handling of complaints by the Supreme Court. From what has happened, I can only conclude that the complaints lodged apparently did not meet the formal requirements for carrying out an investigation. For example, a number of complaints appear to relate to ongoing procedures. It is not clear at what stage these procedures are at. Here too, it goes without saying that neither I nor the Supreme Court can intervene in disputes before the courts. Depending on the state of the case, defences are still possible. What I can confirm to you is that the audit carried out by the Supreme Court at the time at the peace courts and the police courts had similar consequences. As a result, the project leaders of the working group on the national register in different arrondissements explained the deontological code developed and the amendment of Article 972 of the Court's Code in relation to incompatibility. There is therefore a great deal of attention to be paid to this problem. At the request of one of the complainant parties, the Flemish Patient Platform was contacted, which could not provide us with any concrete information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u15	Minister, it remains problematic. We know what caused that broadcast of Pano. At that time, there was a promise to look into certain files. It is true that there are a number of limits. This creates the feeling that people are being sent from the locker to the wall and sure that they can't get anywhere with their complaints. That's the problem. This answer will not give them much hope again, I fear. However, I think it is important, if there are such complaints, that people can go somewhere. Of course, the body must be competent, but we must be able to deal with complaints somewhere, otherwise frustration about the legal system will continue to grow and the credibility of justice will be compromised.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u16	Mr President, Minister, by judgment of 21 December 2017, the Constitutional Court annulled a number of provisions of the Potpourri II Act, which included, inter alia, the virtual abolition of the Court of Assistes. The idea was to have all the cases for which the parole court sees mitigating circumstances and for which the prosecutor does not ask for life imprisonment dealt with by the correctional court. In practice, that goes for almost all crimes. The Constitutional Court has now ruled that this regime is contrary to the Constitution. There is a risk that people in the same situation will be treated differently because in one case there are mitigating circumstances and not in the other. You would already be working on a modified proposal, with some sort of "criminal chambers." You have already communicated about this in the past. The judgment focused on the provisions relating to the Court of Assists, but the Constitutional Court also destroyed other elements of the judicial reform. It was thus considered that the provision allowing the prosecution to withdraw a case from the judicial court and bring it before the police court on the basis of mitigating circumstances is contrary to Article 13 of the Constitution. A court of inquiry or judgment must be able to exercise control over that. In addition, according to the Constitutional Court, it is not possible for a search to take place in the context of a mini-instruction, without a judicial investigation or real control of an investigative judge. Finally, the Constitutional Court also annulled the proposal that suspects can only appeal against the first extension of their arrest during a criminal investigation and no longer if that detention is maintained for a second, third or fourth time. The destruction would have no effect on the decisions already taken under this scheme. I therefore have the following specific questions. Firstly, what is your general response to the destruction of these five measures by the Constitutional Court? Secondly, how do you intend to proceed with these proposals? Would you like to adapt it to meet the criticism of the Constitutional Court? In what way will you do this for each of the destroyed provisions? We know your answer regarding the Court of Assists, but your plans are less clear about the other provisions that were also destroyed by the Constitutional Court. Thirdly, what time will you be able to come to Parliament with appropriate proposals?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u17	Minister, before you answer, could you wait a moment? Mr. Maingain, who is on another committee for the time being, will join us. Thus, your answer will be heard as widely as possible. [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u18	Mr Minister, the current situation in the Committee on the Interior is that we may have to wait a while longer. I will therefore allow you to reply to Mr. Van Hecke.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u19	Mr Van Hecke, in his judgment, the Constitutional Court has set limits to the technique of correcting crimes. I welcome the clarity of the judgment, even though it will lead, at least temporarily, to new cases of assistance and the consequences of the judgment should be further examined. In any event, it is important that the Constitutional Court explicitly states that the effects of the provisions which have been destroyed are maintained in respect of decisions taken on that basis before the date of publication of the judgment in the Belgian Official Journal. As you know, we are currently working hard to reform criminal law, criminal procedure and criminal enforcement law, and the so-called Potpourri laws were provided for as temporary measures in anticipation of this. I can reassure you that the newly designed codes of conduct will be in line with the judgment delivered by the Constitutional Court, not only in terms of the correction that will no longer be provided for, but also in terms of the other provisions which have been destroyed, including mini-instruction, pre-trial detention or the rules for the execution of penalties for foreign nationals. The preliminary draft that I have already submitted to the government in the summer of 2017 provides for a popular jury of four members who assist three magistrates in the professional seat. In addition, this preliminary draft provides for an appropriate procedure which takes advantage of some of the advantages of the old assize procedure, in particular with regard to the administration of evidence. The criminal chambers composed of a jury will also have jurisdiction over press offences and political offences in accordance with the Constitution. The calls will remain possible. Just as this happened before the Potpourri II Act, these texts on criminal chambers are also the subject of a survey of the site. The Committee of Experts, which consists of lawyers, academics and magistrates, who draw up a new Code of Criminal Procedure, has already received the texts. The draft law will then be submitted to the government, after which the opinion of the Council of State can be obtained.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u20	As far as ashes are concerned, we know what alternative design you're working on. However, I am not sure that will suffice. You can, of course, make an initial assessment on the basis of what the Constitutional Court says on the basis of the destroyed provision. Whether this new provision will pass that review will have to be proved later. As far as the other provisions which have been destroyed are concerned, I understand that the preliminary draft on the establishment of a new Code of Criminal Procedure takes account of all the comments made by the Council of State. The mini-instruction on house searches will therefore not be carried out. I assume that in the new system this will be the jurisdiction of the judge of the investigation, rather than that of the investigating judge. However, that is a very different discussion that we will have later. In any case, I look forward to the texts, both on the new Code of Criminal Procedure and on the alternative to the Assisenjury. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u21	Minister, my question was originally addressed to Mr.Jambon, and it was then redirected to you. It is obvious that it is addressed to the whole government. In the fight against terrorism and radicalism, we have a dispute. For my part, I pleaded from the beginning that the plan should be dealt with in a national way, but unfortunately the bulk of the government's plan is located in Brussels: it is the Canal plan, to which Vilvorde is added. Another very embarrassing aspect of this plan is that one creates a link with mosques. However, we know that the terrorists who are being prosecuted by our services did not attend mosques. Here, through the actions carried out by the BELFI cell, controls in mosques are organized very regularly, which resemble police raids and pose a number of problems. Last year, I had taken some informal initiatives and I had invited your colleague Mr Jambon to meet with the Muslim authorities, in particular the Union of Mosques in Brussels. The problems on the ground were then presented to him, including the construction of lists of students of Islamic religion classes in mosques. This reminds us of a dark period in our history: this is what happened in the inter-war period with Jewish families. This approach by BELFI was carried out in particular by ONEM inspectors. At that meeting, Minister Jambon pledged to put an end to the listing of Muslim youth populations in mosques. At that meeting, other problems had been raised by representatives of the Muslim community, including the closing of the streets during these checks, or the fact that these checks were conducted on Friday prayer day. It had been requested that instead of closing the streets and coming at a time of high frequency for prayer, a letter should be sent to the authorities of each mosque asking them for documents or obligations for which the services wished to have information. Since then, Minister Jambon has acted, and there is no longer a children's tab in the mosques. Unfortunately, however, controls that are more like raids into neighbourhoods and mosques continue. Of course, Minister, I am asking you, and through you, all the powers of the government, the Prime Minister and also the Minister of the Interior. How has the BELFI cell been made aware of this situation? Was a slogan given? What is the status of the government's commitments not to carry out the checks during rushing hours, prayer hours? How can we explain that some mosques have been controlled several times under the same conditions? Minister Jambon made a commitment to prevent controls from being carried out. You will understand that some volunteers are not familiar with the management rules of the NSOs. What about it? Can we not consider editing checklists of documents useful for these controls that could be sent to managers in order to avoid giving this image? Mr Minister, these actions on the ground are obviously very counterproductive. I really think that when we talk to the leaders of these institutions, they are allies of the government, allies in the fight against radicalism. Unfortunately, with this type of action, counterproductive effects are not at all positive, which are not desirable at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u22	Mr Kir, the BELFI operations organised under the aegis of the General Prosecutor's Office in Brussels reflect on the ground the multidisciplinary approach aimed at tackling the sources of terrorist financing, the problems of false documents, weapons and narcotics. In addition to the Federal Judicial Police and the local police, various inspection services (the tax authorities, the Regional Inspectorate, the Social Inspectorate, as well as municipal officials responsible for the environment) are involved in the checks because they are particularly aware of local issues. Federal police officers are specialized and have acquired, over the years, a thorough knowledge of the realities of the field. They are part of a specialized team of the PJF. Control only makes sense if the premises are open and if investigators can meet with officials. This justifies the fact that the actions are carried out, with the utmost respect of the faithful, around the moments of prayer. The conduct of screening officers and their behaviour are adapted to places of worship. The conduct of religious services and prayer are not disturbed by the controls. In the same way, controls in the horeca sector are conducted when staff and customers are present, ensuring that the activity is kept to a minimum. Finally, it seems to me important to recall that from 20 January 2016 to 13 October 2017, 202 legal persons were checked under the jurisdiction of the Brussels Court of Appeal. The activities of these legal persons concerned 42 places of prayer but also, for the overwhelming majority, crèches, establishments in the horeca sector, sports clubs, schools, etc. As a result of these controls, 336 cases were opened by the various federal and regional public services, 180 violations were found and 53 closures were decided. In addition to the controls carried out under the BELFI project, ASBL's administrative controls are also organised by the Brussels police areas as part of the Canal Plan and their ongoing work. These activities also fall within the competence of my colleague Jambon. As part of such controls, the local police and the Justice FPS have drafted a checklist that can be used to request documents and information useful to the controlled NSOs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answers. However, you have not answered many of my questions. In fact, the checks continue to be carried out during the rushing hours, during Friday prayers, and the method continues to close streets. That's not right at all! Your answers cannot satisfy us. It is essential for the government to meet so that this situation can truly cease. It's counterproductive on the ground. I would therefore like to ask you a new question. Minister, have you arrested anyone in the mosques who is a radicalist or terrorist? It's practically harassment. We keep closing a street on Fridays at the time of prayers, when the crowd is high. But there's nothing! At some point, would it not be more reasonable to contact these people, as we must do, and to tell them what documents they are required to submit? Can we imagine for a second, in this country, treating synagogues and churches in this way? I think we have to distinguish between places of worship and places of commerce. In your answer, you make no distinction between these places. However, I was asking you about the way in which places of worship and the faithful are dealt with today in our country. If you had told me that there were indeed a number of criminals, people to be prosecuted in the context of radicalism and terrorism, it could have been said at that time that there were a few cases. But there's nothing! Not a word, not the beginning of the beginning of anything. And yet, there is no satisfactory response from the government. Minister, I really ask you to talk to Mr Jambon and the Prime Minister. The Muslim community awaits only a gesture from the government to work with it to combat these scourges. The way the government currently operates is really negative and counterproductive. That is not how we will build trust among the population in all its diversity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u24	Joined Questions Nos 22380 and 22798 by Mr Degroote shall be converted into written questions. Question No 22809 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u25	Mr. Chair, Minister, I wish you a happy 2018 year. I think we all received a letter from Jean-Paul Tieleman, dated January 1, 2018, concerning complaints from certain victims of the attacks of March 22, 2016 and their relatives. In this letter, Mr. Tieleman claims that a large number of victims were "remitted to work after being morally shaken by the insurers' medical consultants". Processes that victims' psychiatrists do not hesitate to describe as "maltreatment". We are 21 months after the attacks and Tieleman says that "a very large number of victims, despite Assuralia's promises made in the presence of Charles Michel, have never benefited from the slightest cent of provision". Mr Tieleman described the situation of the victims who had chosen to initiate proceedings before the courts, their aim being, according to the lawyer, "to prevent the influence over them of the insurers' medical advisers" and to be applied "the so-called indicative table of damages". Despite the promises, these victims would not have received any euro of compensation. In the wake of this letter, which was also publicized on 4 January, the spokesman for Assuralia replied in the press that this situation was in fact only among the victims who, on the advice of their lawyers, refused considerable provisions ranging from 50,000 to 250,000 euros. According to Assuralia, while many victims accepted the advantageous proposal, some rejected it, while accepting it did not imply a waiver of their right to challenge and to seek more amicably or judicially before the courts. We can all regret this imbroglio. I would like to clarify the situation of the victims and their lawyers regarding the role of insurance companies and the conditions of compensation through them. Minister, have you also read this letter and how did you react? Do you intend to receive this lawyer and the victims concerned? Were you aware of the problems described in this letter? How can this be addressed in the short term, given that the situations described are of course unbearable for these victims and their relatives? On the merits, what about the arguments put forward by the lawyer and the spokesman for Assuralia? Elements do not go in the same direction. What about it? Could you clarify the situation so that there is no misunderstanding for the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u26	Minister, Mr Vanden Burre has already outlined the problem. On 1 January, we all received a letter from Master Jean-Paul Tieleman, representing a number of victims of the terrorist attacks on 22 March. It denounces the way in which insurance companies and their doctors deal with victims of acts of terror. For example, a number of victims would not have received any compensation from the insurer. In addition, the medical advisers of the insurance companies would force victims to get back to work far too quickly. Hence my next questions, Minister. Firstly, are you aware of this letter and of the problems it raises? Is it true that some victims have not received any compensation? Secondly, following the terrorist attacks in Brussels, the Commission for Financial Aid to the Victims of Intentional Violence and to the Occasional Saviors has set up a unique window for the victims of terrorist acts. The conditions for eligibility for compensation were also relaxed. The maximum amounts of those fees were increased. Can you give an overview of the amounts paid by this committee since the attacks? Thirdly, can you also give an overview of the amounts paid by insurance companies to the victims? What steps will be taken to facilitate payment in the future? Fourthly, in the final report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, the recommendation was made that in future a system of subrogation should be introduced, in the first instance the government which would award and pay compensation to the victims. Next, the government would recover those fees from the insurance companies. What steps have been taken in the meantime on this recommendation? When can this new system come into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u27	Monsieur Vanden Burre, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, your vous souhaite également une bonne année, a happy New Year. No official correspondence on this subject has been sent directly to us. We have read this letter through the press. Several victims mentioned difficulties with their employer's insurer in relation to their return to work. They felt that the recovery was too fast. The problem of return to work, forced by insurance following the reports of their experts, does not fall within the competence of the SPF Justice or the Commission for financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence, but rather within the scope of legislation on industrial accidents and medical assessment. According to the information at our disposal, the vast majority of victims who choose an amicable procedure with insurance have been offered provisional amounts and this is still the case. The insurances have taken into account the agreement of 17 March 2017 between Assuralia and the federal government. If provisional amounts were not paid to certain victims, it was because these victims, through their lawyer, made a direct choice to bring legal proceedings against the insurer, without going through amicable settlement, which seems to suspend all the compensation proceedings until the court's decision. It is the responsibility of a lawyer to advise his clients of the risks clearly associated with choosing to directly favour legal proceedings against insurance. The settlement of the damage resulting from terrorism is in the hands of the TRIP, Terrorism Reinsurance and Insurance Pool, which was specifically established for this purpose by law of 1 April 2007. The intervention of insurance is carried out within the limits of the provisions of this Act. The Damage Settlement Committee has decided that all damage, both physical, material and moral, should be reimbursed at 100% by insurers. As the Commission for Financial Aid to Victims of Intentional Violence and to the Occasional Saviors intervenes only in the alternative, it can only continue to deal with the investigation to obtain financial relief once there are final decisions on the amounts paid out by the insurance. However, emergency aid has already been granted, totalling EUR 1 663 000, in particular to direct victims of the attacks that were hospitalised and to relatives of deceased victims. Victims who could not claim insurance have also been paid out for a total of EUR 606 750. From the Department of Justice, I cannot provide you with figures on the benefits already paid by the insurance sector. A system of subrogation is currently being developed within the framework of a draft law which is being prepared to amend the law of 1 August 1985, in accordance with the conclusions of the parliamentary committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u28	Minister, thank you for your full answer. I'll read about it in detail later. You confirm the suspension of any compensation from the moment a legal action is instituted against an insurance company. These are, of course, exceptional cases, but a solution should be found. To this end, it will be necessary to discuss with lawyers how they advise their clients. In any case, it is unthinkable that some victims and several of their relatives will not receive any compensation on the grounds that proceedings are ongoing. Then, beyond your answers, it seems to me essential that we should be able to address this problem in depth. My colleague Stefaan Van Hecke and I have asked for the follow-up committee of the Committee of Inquiry into the 22 March attacks to take up the case, so that no victims or relatives are left on the side. I think we are all involved in this, because this is a priority issue. We will therefore continue our work in this respect in the Monitoring Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which I agree with. Perhaps the problem of insurance companies, when everything takes a very long time and certainly when a legal discussion is taking place, is even wider than the discussion about the payment to the victims of terror. Perhaps it is necessary to examine more quickly how things can be looked up. Advance payments may already be made and it is necessary to check whether certain insurance companies are sometimes not doing everything they can to put the whole dossier on the line, so that no advance payments have yet to be made. You reply that a draft on the subrogation system is under development. Is there a timing on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u30	You know our timing: yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u31	Mr Laaouej, you can ask your question 22726.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u32	Mr President, it seems to me that I asked for this question to be turned into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u33	It'll be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u34	Minister, first of all, my best wishes. Mr President, Minister, the Belgian Muslim Executive has 68 mosques in Brussels, while only 14 of them are officially recognised. In May 2016, you promised to recognize 10 new mosques in Brussels. In February 2016, the federal government announced its willingness to release €3.3 million to finance the salaries of 80 new ministers of worship dedicated to this particular cult. In December 2016, you issued a positive opinion for the recognition of 30 new mosques in Belgium out of the total of 80 by 2019. Brussels should therefore see 20 new places of worship recognised in four years. The committee of inquiry Attentats stated: "The commission of inquiry finds that the procedure of official recognition appears problematic, in particular with regard to the number of mosques awaiting recognition or refusal of recognition after having made a request to that effect." The CEP (the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry) therefore issued the following recommendation, adopted unanimously: "The Committee of Inquiry recommends that the objective of maximum recognition of mosques active on Belgian territory be set as a priority for action, due to its effect of integration and transparency/control." So, Minister, what is the status of the recognition of the seven Brussels mosques that are still waiting? What justifies the delays in the recognition of these mosques? What commitments can you make for 2018, following this recommendation unanimously adopted by the CEP?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u35	Mr Laaouej, allow me first of all to express my best wishes for the new year. The Regions and the German-speaking Community are competent for the recognition of local religious communities. Following the cooperation agreement of 3 July 2008, the federal government is required to give an opinion on the matter of state security and public order through the Minister of Justice. I can inform you that my services have anticipated the recommendation of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the recognition of mosques by coordinating this federal relay of the procedure through a joint circular dated 20 July 2017, which I prepared jointly with my colleagues Ministers and Ministers of Security and Interior, Finance, Defence and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. On July 19, 2017, the Brussels government recognized three mosques for which I had issued a positive opinion in December 2016. Two other mosques which have also obtained a positive opinion will soon be recognised by the Brussels government. This was communicated to my office at the last consultation meeting on 1 December between Justice and the Regions on matters of worship. Meanwhile, on 27 December 2017, the Sûreté de l'Etat sent me new notes concerning Brussels mosques seeking recognition. I shall therefore shortly forward these notes and my opinion on the matter to the Brussels Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u36	Minister, if I understand you correctly, the procedure is still under way. You have received an opinion from the Sûreté de l'Etat, and then you will decide, I imagine, in the near future. This is ultimately Parliament's wish, since it was unanimously that the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry were adopted. I can only encourage you, Minister, to go in that direction, that is to say, to speed up the pace.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u37	Mr President, I wish you and the Minister and Mr Laaouej all the best for 2018. Recently, I was questioned by people working in prison on the issue of health care. Indeed, while some prisons such as the prisons of Saint-Gilles, Bruges or Lantin have important infrastructure, this is not the case in most penitentiaries. In these, the doctor is present daily for a specific period which does not exceed a few hours. Outside the prison, only nurses in most prisons are allowed to distribute medicines to prisoners. Once they have left the establishment, sometimes at the end of the afternoon, no drugs can be delivered. In the event of an emergency, a doctor must be recalled or the detainee transferred to the hospital or other prison provided with a medical centre, as the case may be, with the costs involved. Minister, how do you stand up to this problem? Can no special measures be taken to allow the permanent presence of at least one person authorized to deliver medicines to prisoners?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u38	Mr President, Mr Flahaux; every day medical consultations are held in each prison. In addition to this consultation, the detainee may appeal 24 hours a day to the prison doctor and/or to the local general medical guard station. Newly incarcerated prisoners are seen by a nurse as soon as possible and by a prison doctor within 24 hours of their incarceration. With regard to the availability of medicines, all medicines prescribed by a doctor are placed by a local pharmacist in a pill box on behalf of the detainee for 24 hours. They are prepared and delivered daily to detained patients. In addition, each medical service has an emergency cabinet consisting of a stock of medicines regularly prescribed by prison doctors. Both during and outside the day-to-day consultation, the physician may, if he or she so wishes, initiate a newly prescribed medication treatment without delay. The delay before the next delivery of medicines can therefore be covered. If an absolutely necessary medicine is not available in this emergency cabinet, it can be obtained at the nearest pharmacy. Finally, detainees can obtain a very limited number of non-prescription drugs 24 hours a day from the prison pharmacy. Any medication can therefore start or be prosecuted in any prison within a very reasonable time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answer. So, in order to complete my question, don't you have to be a nurse at the prison pharmacy to deliver the drug in question? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u40	Minister, until the age of three, children may, under certain conditions and with the aim of not weakening their development, accompany their mothers behind bars. I recently asked you a written question about this in order to obtain precise figures for the last few years. Today, I would like you to indicate the infrastructure available to accommodate these children. If, at present, it seems that nothing is really planned for them, this could change thanks to the construction of the Haren prison. Can you confirm this information and take stock of the current and future situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u41	Mr Flahaux, there are indeed infrastructures for children. For the moment, the prisons in Lantin, Berkendael and Bruges offer the most suitable configuration and supervision. These facilities are equipped with appropriate cells and spaces where children can play freely, as well as specialized paediatric staff. With regard to the future Haren prison, it is planned to set up a specific mother-child unit there, so that the mother can further build a privileged relationship with the child. In concrete terms, these are five mother-child rooms installed in the closed section and five others located in the open section of the prison. A mother-child room consists of two connecting individual rooms that can both be closed from the outside. It is intended that each of them be equipped with amenities, such as a sitting shower, so that they can be used as a bathtub for the child. A playroom inside as well as urban furniture for children are also provided in the closed section. In the open section, the outer space of the mother-child unit should also be equipped with games.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u42	Minister, I am fully satisfied with your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u43	First of all, Minister, I would like to offer you my best wishes for the new year: good health, a lot of work, good results and little concern. I start immediately with something that concerns few people: the darknet. Minister, police and security forces from more than 60 countries have joined forces under the leadership of Europol and Frontex with Operation Dragon to target organised criminal gangs and their infrastructure in the European Union through various actions in hundreds of places. Eurojust and Interpol were involved. After three previous similar actions, Ciconia Alba, Blue Amber and Archimedes, it was the fourth operation in which international cooperation was carried out on such a scale to achieve that goal. Operation Dragon ran from 5 June 2017 to 20 October 2017 focusing on trafficking in human beings, illegal migration, cocaine trafficking, heroin and synthetic drugs, cybercrime and arms trafficking. At the end of March 2017, I myself attended a multi-day international parliamentary conference on national security and cybersecurity. I met Neil Walsh, the director of Cyber and Emerging Crime of the United Nations Office on Drugs & Crime, among others. During a break he showed me the functioning of those marketplaces by visiting the darknet live. Those marketplaces bring together sellers and buyers of prohibited goods anonymously. These are points mentioned above and also disorder, stolen credit card records, child abuse and even murder on order. On 28 November 2017, the European Monitoring Center for Drugs and Drug Addiction and Europol presented their report "Drugs and the Darknet' in Lisbon. This shows that illegal drug trafficking on the darkweb is growing rapidly, despite the closure of several darknet marketplaces, such as AlphaBay and Hansa. In 2013, the FBI closed down the market place Silk Road. One month later, Silk Road 2.0 was already launched and later a version 3.0. Operation Onymous shut down several other marketplaces. Now it turns out that a darknet marketplace would only be active for an average of eight months. In June and July 2017, AlphaBay and Hansa, the two largest marketplaces on the darknet and providing a range of around 350 000 products, were closed by actions of the FBI and Europol. In November 2017, 14 darknet marketplaces would remain operational, according to EMCDDA. The report says that two thirds of the transactions on the darknet are related to drugs. That is why I want to talk about this in particular. Between 2011 and 2015, drugs were sold through the darknet. Worldwide, it is about a market value of 170 million euros, of which 80 million in Europe. The biggest marketplaces would be Germany, Great Britain and the Netherlands, but Belgium will come in fourth place. In relation to the population, the Belgian market is apparently even larger than that of Germany and Great Britain. The Netherlands in particular appears to be very innovative in combating the illegal drug trafficking of the darknet. For example, the Dutch police took over a darknet marketplace in 2016 to track down the names of sellers and buyers. The report makes clear the recommendations that each Member State should provide sufficient capacity and experts and increase investment in them in order to allow specialised research. That was a very long introduction to ask my questions. Suppliers on the darknet are becoming more and more complicated and professional compared to previous years. This means that the detection of criminal activities is becoming increasingly difficult. First of all, what human, material and procedural means does Belgium use against this? Is that sufficient in view of recent developments and events in other countries? What will you do in 2018 and 2019? Secondly, how did Belgium participate in Operation Dragon? What were the results in Belgium? Thirdly, did Belgium participate in other international actions against drug trafficking on the darknet in 2016 and 2017? I also have two questions relating to figures that you may not be able to answer, but hopefully you will. There are probably few figures, because I have learned from previous questions that little is happening around them. How many suspects were arrested in Belgium in 2015, 2016 and 2017 for selling drugs via marketplaces on the darknet? Did it always affect people with Belgian nationality? How many of them have been convicted by now? How many suspects have been arrested for buying drugs? Do they have Belgian nationality and were they convicted? Minister, I hope you will give me a good answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u44	Mr Vermeulen, at least it was a good question. Happy New Year to you, too. I confirm that the fight against international drug trafficking and the fight against crime committed or facilitated via the Internet and ICT such as the sale of illegal goods on the so-called darknet are important policy themes for the criminal policy of the integrated police and the police. They therefore figured, respectively, as a security phenomenon and as a transversal security theme in the Integrated Security Paper and in the National Security Plan of the Integrated Police. With the law of 25 December 2016 on the special detection methods, the police were allowed to infiltrate and make findings with the permission of the prosecution under a fictitious identity on the internet, including the darknet. The Dragon operation is a joint action under the coordination of Europol, which not only identifies drug offences but also the other criminal offences. Specifically with regard to drug crime, the Belgian customs authorities have carried out control actions in the port of Antwerp and at the airports of Zaventem and Bierset in consultation with the federal judicial police. In addition, an internet patrol conducted investigations into various criminal phenomena, allowing more than 250 interesting targets to be identified. Some of them are involved in drug crime. The data is now being examined further by our police forces, in cooperation with Europol. Furthermore, in 2016, Belgium participated in Operation Ciconia Alba, which was also coordinated at Europol level and focused on various criminal phenomena, including illicit drug trafficking. With regard to the figures you requested, I regret to inform you that they are not currently registered in the General Database with the listed variables, marketplaces on the Internet and the darknet. Nor can the public prosecutor's databases produce the requested figures on the basis of the contextual data.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u46	Mr President, Minister, this is a subject that I have often raised and on which I am tenacious, because I believe that there is a profound injustice with regard to the centres of care specializing in sexual violence. The fight against sexual violence involves two essential aspects: the social protection of victims and the treatment of sexual offenders. As you read your last policy statement, you seem to agree with this approach. Three sexual abuse centres have been set up as pilot projects, as well as highlighting the importance of support centres for the guidance and treatment of sexual offenders to continue the monitoring and guidance of perpetrators of sexual violence upon their return to society after their sentence has been served. The viability of these centres, however, depends on a budget commensurate with their respective missions. It is clear, however, that, with the support centres responsible for the therapeutic follow-up of sex offenders - another subject on which I have spoken on many occasions - despite the great need to combat recidivism and therefore to protect society, their functioning is undermined by under-investment, particularly in the budget, which is your government's choice. Moreover, this under-investment is only growing because, after imposing a 20% reduction on the Brussels Support Centre - a reduction that seriously threatens the fulfilment of the Centre's tasks and, consequently, its existence - it is clear that, in your budget projection, if, in 2018, the subsidies granted to the bodies responsible for the therapeutic support of perpetrators of sexual assault remain at 907,000 euros, they will fall to 889 000 euros in 2019. I fear that this reduction will once again oblige the federated entities to grant exceptional supplementary grants. This is not an acceptable solution, since the matter is not a matter of Community competence. Therefore, Minister, can you tell me whether the current distribution key between the country's three support centres will be maintained (40% for the Flemish institution, 40% for the Walloon institution and 20% for the CAB)? What is the status of your discussions with the Ministers of the Communities with a view to updating the cooperation agreements on the guidance and treatment of perpetrators of sexual offences? What budget will be allocated to the three new specialized care centres? Will this budget be allocated according to the number of victims to be accommodated by these centres? This seems to me to be the most objective criterion. What is your budget prospect if the activities of these centres are successful? It is likely that there are more situations to be taken into account and that there is therefore an extension of the missions of these centres. Will you retain this distribution key, which is clearly inspired by the one imposed on the support centres, that is, the other side of the policy for the prevention of sexual violence?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u47	Mr Maingain, I confirm that the current repair key will be maintained in 2018, i.e. 40% of subsidies for UFC, 40% for UPPL, 20% for CAB. The overall funding budget for 2018 has remained unchanged since 2014. Indeed, it still amounts to 907,000 euros. I have no intention of ending the operation of the support centres after 2017. On the contrary, I have always respected my commitments to these centres, even in a precarious budgetary climate. I expect the Communities to attend the dialogue with my departments on the division of competences of each of them, following the various reforms of the State on this subject. In the first few months of this year, the dossier will be put on the agenda of the working group "Houses of Justice" of the Interdepartmental Conference, with a view to a discussion on the substance and, in the longer term, an update of the various cooperation agreements. The budget for the new specialized care centres for victims of sexual abuse is allocated by the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. It's not my job.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u48	Mr Minister, thank you and I will therefore refer some of my questions to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u49	Minister, your policy note for 2018 announced that a social status for magistrates is under consideration. This issue could not be addressed in the budgetary debates. However, it is crucial for the future of our justice and the attractiveness of the profession of magistrate. This social status has long been claimed by the organisations representing both the judiciary and the public prosecutor's office. It seems to me that the first requests were made some ten years ago. It is paradoxical that the judiciary is the only service that cannot enjoy social status. At present, the granting of parental leave, palliative leave and other arrangements for the organization of working time is generally left to the discretion of the head of the body. It is not requested that this statute consist of a working regulation as extensive as that governing other public services. Nevertheless, it must take sufficient account of the specificity and independence of the judiciary. The possibility of part-time work at the end of a career is a necessary orientation in that it will help to alleviate the shock of retirement. Therefore, Minister, can you tell me whether the agenda for the development of this statute is finally known? What actors are involved in this reflection, and how are they involved? Could it not be proposed to the Judicial Advisory Council to prepare and publish a compendium of the ethical obligations of judges and to list the possibilities of working time arrangements that would not increase the backlog of cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u50	Mr Maingain, as announced in my general policy note, I would like to take, again during this term of office, a legislative initiative aimed at granting judges contemporary social status, including a balance between rights and duties, as well as attention to an effective assessment of those concerned. Currently, my administration is working on a preliminary draft which, after the necessary administrative preparation, will be submitted to the government for approval for tabling in Parliament. In order to establish this social status, regular consultations were held with representatives of the Judicial Advisory Council. On 26 June 2015, the Council delivered an opinion containing proposals to improve social status. Next week, this issue will also be addressed in my regular consultations with the College of Public Prosecutions. With regard to ethics, I would like to point out that the Advisory Council and the Supreme Council of Justice jointly published, in 2012, the Judicial Guide, which incorporates the principles, values and qualities of the Guide.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u52	Mr President, I wish you and the Minister and all my colleagues all the best for happiness and good health. Minister, since 2010, a compensation fund has been in place for medical errors. It allows victims to be compensated without having to prove the physician's guilt. However, this fund is only available to victims of abnormal and serious damage from 2 April 2010. Damage is considered to be sufficiently serious when it fulfils one of the criteria of gravity referred to in Article 5 of the Law on Compensation for Damage Resulting from Health Care: a permanent disability of 25% or more; a temporary incapacity to work for at least 6 consecutive months or 6 non-consecutive months over a period of 12 months; particularly serious disorders, including economic disorders, under the conditions of the patient's existence and, of course, the patient's death. As a result, victims of medical errors prior to April 2, 2010, sometimes still struggle today to see their damage recognized. The press recently reported the case of parents who were victims of their baby's involuntary homicide because of the lack of foresight of hospital medical staff, a homicide that occurred in 2009. After significant blood loss, the mother went to the hospital. He was asked to go home, without taking care of it. The next day, we finally agreed to hospitalize him but always without calling a doctor. The harm was done: the baby died because of premature detachment of the placenta which was not taken care of in time. This case has been under investigation since 2009. He has since passed into the hands of four different investigating judges, from Tournai to Charleroi, with considerable procedural delays. Each time, the references in the file have been changed. Although the expertise carried out by the doctors appointed by the courts has established the responsibility of the hospital, no compensation has yet been paid. According to the ASBL Medical Errors, this case is indicative of a blatant slowness in both civil and criminal proceedings, due to the congestion of the courts and the appointment of experts. The ASBL therefore often suggests mediation to victims of medical errors. While this solution may be satisfactory in some cases, it is not in the event that the hospital denies any responsibility. Therefore, can the Minister let me know if the expert report requested by the court binds him to the establishment of the hospital's responsibility? In case of doubt on the expert report, does the judge not have the duty to order a counter-expertise? How can victims of medical errors and delays in justice avoid a prescription on their case? What are the causes of suspension of the prescription in such cases? Shouldn't compensation be automatic for expertise? Are you planning a review of the compensation limits for moral damage resulting from the death of a child?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u53	Mr President, Mrs Caprasse, I can refer you to the answer I have already given on this subject to a question put by Mrs Jadin. In the event of a medical error, two types of recourse are available to victims: a legal remedy and an appeal to the Medical Accidents Fund. The appeal to the Medical Accidents Fund is governed by the Act of 31 March 2010 on compensation for damage resulting from health care. The operation of the Fund, which is a special service of the National Institute of Sickness and Disability Insurance, falls within the competence of my colleague the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health. The appeal may be brought before the civil courts, if the error constitutes fault, or before the criminal courts, if the error constitutes an offence. In both cases, compensation for injury is subject to the application of the ordinary law of civil liability. The victim must demonstrate that a fault or, as the case may be, that an offence has been committed and that there is a causal link between that fault or offence and the damage for which compensation is sought. As regards the slow processing of this type of legal file, reference should also be made to the conclusions of the Fund's report, drawn up in 2015. In particular, he mentioned the slow completion of external medical expertise, the weight and scope of the cases in question, which required long-term analysis and expertise, and the fact that many investigations had to be extended because several providers had to be involved or could assume responsibility. For further information, I would also refer you to my colleague the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u54	Minister, I still have a problem with the responsibility of the hospital in this case. You give me very general answers, but for the specific case to which I am referring, I have not received a satisfactory answer. What does this couple have to do? He's in total despair. He's already ruined himself in court fees. And he can't grieve until there's a solution. Will this file be prescribed? Or is there still hope that it will be saved and that there will be a response to the request? I am not satisfied with your answer. I may see with other ministers what needs to be done, but it seemed to me that this question should be addressed to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u55	Mr President, Minister, we know how much I admire the current French President and, in this context, I was pleased to hear his intention to implement a law to combat the problem of fake news on the Internet. This follows the resurgence of this phenomenon and its impact on citizens. Mr Minister, unfortunately, France is not the only country affected by this phenomenon. We also know this problem in many areas. Our government is, itself, frequently the victim of fake news. Be careful, I'm not talking about the opposition in particular. In your view, should the fight against this phenomenon go through politics and, therefore, through specific legislation? What vision do you have for the existing project in our French neighbours?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u56	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, I do not yet have any knowledge of the specific details of the law announced in France with a view to combating fake news during an election period. The French President has only expressed his intention to take a legislative initiative in this area in order to protect liberal democracies. At first glance, I doubt that a legal ban is the best way to combat this phenomenon. Indeed, a ban may lead to many problems related to interpretation and evidence. In my view, it seems to me that it is primarily up to the managers of communication channels and media to thoroughly verify the veracity of their messages and, if necessary, to initiate the necessary steps to prohibit them. This is not only their own reliability or legitimacy, but also their responsibility in judicial proceedings, when the dissemination of false news causes serious damage. In addition, there is a risk of rapid contact with the areas of freedom of expression and freedom of the press, which may threaten public debate. Moreover, the dissemination of false news may already be covered by certain criminal provisions such as slander and defamation. The problem will often be to identify the origin of this news. It was my understanding that the French President wanted above all to extend the possibilities of the judicial authorities in order to be able, through an accelerated procedure, to have the content of certain websites deleted, to close accounts or to block access to certain websites. As part of the data entry procedure, we have already increased these possibilities, but some improvements or enlargements can still be made. Of course, we will closely monitor developments in legislation and procedure in our French neighbours.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is very clear that this is a new area, particularly sensitive and, in itself, immobilism could also be an accelerator of fake news. It should be ensured that it is essentially justice and not policy that can act in this area, because the limit between freedom of expression and prohibition is sometimes a little weak. As a convinced European, I think it would be ideal for the countries of the European Union to act together and not separately. Indeed, by the force of things, the Internet transcends borders. It would not be far-reaching to be content with national legislation. We will certainly come back to this matter, whether through questions, resolutions, proposals or bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic793x.u58	Joined Questions No 22721 and No 22807 by Mrs Gerkens shall be converted into written questions.
