ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u2	As regards the order of business, I give the floor to Mr Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u3	Mr President, in view of the fact that the Committee on Justice is voting for an important text and that obviously a certain amount of time will still be required to complete this vote, I will ask for an interruption of sitting to allow the vote in the Committee on Justice to be ended before we start the debate here again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u4	As usual, I accept requests for a member's suspension. To be clear: the vote is taking place right now? Do I understand that correctly? As an exception, we can admit that the committee is continuing its work and that we are already starting with the oral questions. Can everyone agree that we exceptionally allow the committee to carry out legislative work at the moment, while at the same time holding a plenary session? So, if everyone agrees, it will be. Vice-President Frédéric, too, opine: our answer is "yes"!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u5	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at Carrefour, some 950 workers will lose their jobs following a decision by the company. A few hundred men and women, who have not asked for anything, will find themselves on the sidelines with all the social, financial, family and other consequences resulting from this type of situation. Minister, we met with some workers from Carrefour. They tell us that they are concerned because if the social plan that has been approved between management and workers does not provide enough for pre-pensioning, they fear dry layoffs, which would obviously be a much worse scenario. In addition to this, there is the great blur that exists around the notion of adequate availability that you imposed in 2015, against the unanimous opinion of the social partners. Moreover, on Tuesday, the Flemish Minister for Employment gave a negative opinion on pre-pensions to 56 years in the event of restructuring. But he also says the bullet is on your side, minister. Indeed, I think it is time to take your responsibility in this matter. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you two clear and specific questions. The first is whether or not you will fully approve the social plan agreed by Carrefour's social partners. The second is: can you clarify the concrete and precise constraints of pre-pensioners in relation to this notion of adapted availability? What are your contacts with your colleagues in the Regions? Carrefour workers are waiting, and are entitled to, for specific answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u6	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we were told that Flemish Minister for Work, Philippe Muyters, gave a negative opinion on the SWT scheme at Carrefour. In Brussels and Wallonia, on the other hand, the green light was given. Minister Muyters motivates his decision, as we could read in the newspaper, as follows: "The plan proposes to send some 600 employees early into an SWT. That is a very bad idea for Minister Muyters in today's labour market. People in an SWT are not legally obliged to actively look for work themselves. At a time when the labour market is tight, that is a totally wrong signal." Our coalition agreement that, as you undoubtedly know, made employment the first priority, and our slogan 'jobs, jobs, jobs', in my opinion, is completely at odds with that SWT. In addition, a more clear SWT regime will avoid future problems for yourself and for the government, unless you wish to have similar discussions about the SWT between yourself and Minister Muyters in future restructurings. I don't think so. Nobody's looking for that. No one will benefit from that either. Since Wallonia and Brussels provided a different advice from Flanders, you are now sitting in your capacity as Minister with proverbial pears. The ball is in your camp. You're gonna have to make a decision. The sixth state reform is already playing tricks on you. Apparently, you're refusing to respond until now, while the procedure is still in progress. That is why I have three brief questions for you, Minister. Firstly, could you clarify the three regional opinions? Secondly, what decision did you make? Did you allow or refuse an SWT for Carrefour? Thirdly, have you already taken an initiative to adapt the legislation and speed up the eradication of SWT? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u7	Mr President, Minister, workers and especially workers in Carrefour are doubly victims. These people are victims of the strategic mischoice of their employer, who makes significant profits and nevertheless decided on a rather massive lay-off plan on 25 January. These people are also victims of the usual disagreements and quarrels within this federal government over whether or not some of them have the right to join the unemployment scheme with additional business. Unemployment with additional business is not Win for Life. If we have access to it, it is because we are over 56 years old, over 30 years old and we lose our job, which is not a comfortable situation, you will agree. If we have this status, we must be able to remain available on the labour market, as long as there is employment available for older workers, which is one of your government's major failures. The employment rate of both older and very young workers is far too low in our country. Finally, there is an accountability of employers who must contribute through a wage supplement for workers who are responsible and the payment of social contributions. We, like Sister Anne, are waiting for your decision on this matter. You have decided strangely to consult the regional governments, which, however, are competent only for questions of reclassification of workers and not for access to the unemployment system with additional business. And the situation is blocked. Some people do bodybuilding on the subject. Minister, what is the situation? On what legal basis do you think you need the agreement of the three regional governments and ministers, in particular Mr Muyters, who has fun blocking the case? Are you going to assume your responsibilities and validate this restructuring plan, including the access of some workers to the supplementary business unemployment scheme? That's what we're asking.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u8	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, it is amazing to have to come to the government to see whether or not it will comply with the current legislation! It's amazing to have to ask the government if it's going to comply with the rules that you yourself have laid down! It is just as hallucinating that so-called responsible policies present unemployment income with business supplement as a safe house, a "paternal" situation, even though they well know that this is not a pre-pension - as you are trying to make it grow - and, therefore, a "paternal" retirement! On the contrary, people in the CCR remain job-seekers and are required to meet their obligations. Above all, we are witnessing a bad little political game. Some people like to practice bodybuilding and bomb the torso to better suggest that their policy is different from the one you have enacted yourself. It is all the more surprising that Minister Muyters has already delivered a positive opinion five times since 1 January this year. The Deputy Prime Minister reminded him here a few weeks ago. It is 131 people who are affected by a RCC at the age of 56. Therefore, explain to me the reason for this double standard between the files that we were dealing with a few months ago and this one. Is it because the target audience is not the same? This difference in treatment is obviously not justified. Deputy Prime Minister, I had tabled my question in committee, but it was attached to those put to you today. It will be simple: will you abide by the law? As such, I would like to acknowledge the good work of Commissioner Marianne Thyssen, who at least reminds us of the rule and the law. I hope, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, that in his image you will simply abide by the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reply to four points. The first concerns the restructuring plan, in which context it is important to indicate this. The second concerns the outplacement and the regional ministers with whom we have held a meeting. The third concerns the SWT Committee, which meets on Monday, and the fourth concerns a meeting which I will have with Carrefour. As regards the restructuring plan, I would remind you once again that it was announced that, in application of the Renault Act, more than 1 230 people might lose their jobs. After consultation in the company and since a number of shops will not close, that number has been reduced to 950 people; at least that is what I assume. I have already said that this is the result of social dialogue within the government on the basis of the Renault Act. The restructuring plan consists of four measures: to encourage voluntary departure; to reduce working hours through the "end-of-career" scheme; to transfer workers to other shops in the group; and to grant RCC from the age of 56. These are the six measures approved in the restructuring plan. I would like to stress once again that, as far as SWT is concerned, 70% of all employees are women who work on average 27 hours a week in executive positions. As regards SWT, it should not be forgotten that it is mainly about that target group. As far as the regions are concerned, this is also interesting, Mr Van der Donkt is 51% employed in Flanders, 43% in Wallonia and 6% in Brussels. I want to give you another element about the age, colleagues: 24.8 % of the people in SWT are 56 years old, 20.8 % is 57 years old, 19.5 % is 58 years old, 15.8 % is 59 years old and the rest is over 60 years old. When talking about the age of 56 years, we must not forget that it is only 24% of women who work 27 hours a week. That is what is in the restructuring plan, which was sent to all regional ministers and to myself. My second point concerns the outplacement and approval of regional ministers. Something has changed since the sixth state reform. As regards the outplacement and the employment cell, advice had to be given earlier, but now an approval has to be given. I've received and brought the three advices. Wallonia approves the whole plan. Brussels has given a slightly more detailed answer. The Brussels Minister has looked at the different categories of employees: workers under 45 in outplacement, workers over 45 in outplacement, and workers over 45 in outplacement, and.. pay close attention to candidates for SWT in outplacement. That's what he did in the different categories. So he says there's a part of SWT in outplacement and he approved the whole plan. The last advice came from Minister Muyters who did not give the argument you gave. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u10	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u11	Mr Muyters also gave me an opinion: he approved the outplacement offer of the nv Carrefour. He then gave a negative opinion on the system of single payment unemployment and a negative opinion on the entire restructuring plan because of its insufficient activation. Colleagues, in outplacement, as proposed by the restructuring plan, there is also the SWT that needs to be activated. Outplacement is therefore approved and the SWT is not but in outplacement the SWT is also approved. So we have a situation in which three ministers have looked at it. Two of them fully approved it, the third was more nuanced. I will now ask for legal advice from my services to clarify all this. I assume that I will be able to communicate about this in the course of next week. That brings me to my third point. There is a SWT committee at federal level that will meet on 16 July, so Monday. She'll give advice to the federal minister. I think I should wait for that to make a final decision. I'd like to see how they deal with that first. The Committee will also be legally informed about the impact of the three opinions delivered. One final point. Of course, we have a tight labour market and open vacancies. I will soon be back with Carrefour, not to change the restructuring plan, but to see to what extent additional initiatives can be taken in the context of activation. I'll publish the results of that. A minister is, of course, expected to correctly apply the laws adopted in this hemisphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u12	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. In this case, there are a few small disputes between friends in the majority. Fragmenting statements were heard on the backs of the workers concerned. You have a responsibility to put an end to this. I hear your reply concerning the opinion of your colleague, the Flemish Minister for the Economy. You say that, in the end, he is against, in the headlines, but when you read between the lines, he is also partially for. I therefore take note of the contradictions that you have raised. In any event, the organization of a consultation on outplacement issues is a very good thing. In fact, we must try to work towards the reintegration of the workers concerned. But you have a responsibility to put an end to recreation, to decide, to approve this plan. In this regard, you have not given me a precise answer. As far as availability is concerned, we never have a really clear answer. We will therefore have to come back to this issue in committee. I hope, in any case, that you will be able to approve this plan very quickly, in accordance with the wishes of the workers and management.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u13	Thank you for the answer, Minister. You may not be surprised, but I fully support the position and vision of your Flemish colleague, Mr Muyters, not only because he happens to be an N-VA, but above all because the SWT, as applied to Carrefour, is superfluous and runs counter to the philosophy of the coalition agreement. Twenty-five thousand vacancies for low-skilled workers are not filled in Flanders. Six hundred SWTs can fit perfectly into the labour market, can't they? I note that you will talk to Carrefour about this next week. How the hell do you sell SWT to 56-plussers who do work and have to do it for another 10 years, to yourself or to people who are unemployed and are almost obliged to look for a job? Therefore, I would like to ask why you are stubbornly refusing to allow the system to die out as quickly as possible. I said here two weeks ago that we live in a Community two-way country. In Belgium everything is Community. The different advice in Flanders, on the one hand, and Brussels and Wallonia, on the other, proves that once again. As a politician, one must also dare to think ahead and not just until the next elections. In this respect, the N-VA will continue to work for urgent steps towards the federalisation of our labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u14	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what is happening here is shocking. We are talking about workers, over 56 years old, low-skilled, with low wages, having most of the time filled only one function, at the caisse of their supermarket, victims of the situation and the choices of their company, and we are making small political games. The law is superior to a majority agreement and to the opinion of the Minister of Employment of the Flemish Region. The law provides for the possibility of unemployment with additional enterprise for workers over 56 years of age with 30 years of seniority. In its application, it does not provide for a veto power for regional employment ministers. I will point out very clearly the responsibility for the political games of the N-VA, but also yours, Deputy Prime Minister. Why do you think you're feet and fists linked to Mr. Muyters' point of view? Simply apply the law. Take your responsibilities. Respond to the employer concerned. Provide clear perspectives to Carrefour staff and their families. That's our request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u15	Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. We'll see what the RCC commission decides. I hope that after that, you will decide. I wonder, however, why the N-VA takes this attitude on unemployment with additional enterprise. It was understood that this would serve their political position in favour of de-federalisation of employment. It's weird and probably related to the businesses that suit them. With these, the N-VA accepts the RCC. Their minister did it in Flanders. But when it doesn't fix them, it's no! Why with Carrefour? Is there any copying with the boss? Is it because it is women who are primarily concerned and deserve less interest? I'll let you draw the conclusions. I find, in any case, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, that this little game on the back of workers, all these chattering around a law yet clear, that's enough! The law is the law. The law is the law . Respectez-la!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u16	Mr President, Minister, in the Consultative Committee you spoke to the Regional Ministers of Work about the challenge of getting many open vacancies better filled. I read that all parties put lists of possible measures on the table. That's not abnormal, it usually happens that way. What amazes me is that there are apparently proposals that have nothing to do with filling vacancies, not helping to solve the problem, but merely sending a political message. I deeply regret that. People looking for jobs and employers looking for the right employees have no message. On the contrary. What we want is a solution-oriented approach. We want to approach work in a positive way. We want to motivate and encourage people. We want to offer job seekers opportunities and, of course, we also want commitments from them. In particular, we are calling for measures to encourage training and lifelong learning. We call for measures to make it possible for unemployment benefits to be combined with a supplement if someone is in an internship or in training. We call for unemployment benefits not to be reduced if they are trained. We call for the time-credit to be increased and financially strengthened when someone is undergoing training for a bottleneck profession. For someone who wants to make a career switch, it has to be financially feasible to go to training. In short, our credo is training, retraining. Especially for the 17% young unemployed looking for work. That is the way forward for us. We therefore read with these glasses the twelve proposals put forward by the Flemish Government. We agree, without any problem, but what amazes me very much is that it is all measures that need to be taken at federal level and that the Flemish Minister for Work, Mr Muyters, is not proposing any measure of his own to ensure better activation, better coaching, better guidance for the unemployed, to fill out the open vacancies. And that's when he's got all the instruments in his hands before that. I do not think that is ambitious. We call for a positive and motivating activation policy that is supported by all ministers, regardless of their level of activity, and where mediation services in the regions have a key role to play. They are the closest to the jobseekers and the closest to the employers. Hence my next questions, Minister. What's the status of the work deal? What's the timing? And above all, what measures do you see to improve job vacancies in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u17	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, what about the employment deal, which should be one of the last major yards before the elections? If I look at it all, I have the impression that the government is building a gazebo. However, although there are many vacancies open, we do not get them filled out. There is a mismatch between supply and demand. A work deal is therefore really necessary. Between dream and deed is the Belgian division of powers. The Länder are responsible for the activation and you are responsible for the federal framework. This often leads to tensions between the Flemish and the federal levels. We have seen this recently, as part of the bridge pension for employees at Carrefour. I find it odd that two majority parties here actually oppose their own policies. One does not agree with the SWT at 56 years for the employees of Carrefour, although I do not think that the minimum age will be 60 years until 2020. At least that is what this government has decided. Flanders has already made many proposals, and if I may believe you, you support 99.9 % of these proposals. In the meantime, however, it is still very quiet on the federal level, as well as in French-speaking Belgium. Perhaps it would be preferable not to reform there and to embrace the Community's standstill, together with the governmental parties here. However, Mr Fons Leroy announced last year that we will have to implement a state reform if we are to achieve an employment rate of 75% by 2020. He proposed that labour law should be regionalised and that the Länder should be responsive. Minister, what do we want in the end? What will happen? Quid with the labor deal?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u18	Mr President, Minister, we naturally welcome your agreement to the twelve Flemish measures to get people to work. I tweeted that too, by the way. It is a step in the right direction. However, your vision of focusing rather strictly on the activation, guidance and training of the unemployed might prove that you are forgetting the bigger picture. Indeed, we need a thorough reform of our rigid labour law so that our labour market can develop as much as possible by, among other things, making benefit systems and labour law more active. However, your strict focus on regional powers must not lead us and you to lose sight of the federal government agreement. I have two questions. Firstly, what is the agreement with the Flemish measures? Secondly, what federal measures that have not yet been implemented in the field of labour law and the labour market will you still implement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the employment deal, I would like to make it clear what the purpose of the labour deal is. We are dealing, on the one hand, with many open vacancies and, on the other hand, with a low level of activity in Flanders and certainly in Brussels and Wallonia. How will we solve that? That has to do with talents, with the necessary skills and with activation. We have asked the regions whether measures can still be taken at federal level which they would like to see taken. That used to be called the Copernican philosophy. We received proposals from Wallonia as well as from Flanders. From Flanders we received twelve proposals on how to support and strengthen the Flemish activation policy, from a federal perspective. We have therefore asked, at federal level, whether we can do anything for them, because the focus of activation policy is on the regions. We have therefore received twelve proposals from Flanders, which are largely in line with Wallonia's proposals. In my capacity as Federal Minister for Work and taking into account the Copernicanic philosophy which focuses on the regions, I have replied that we will agree with it. It was agreed that on 11 July we would receive all the sheets, including the budgetary elements. I understand that not everyone worked yesterday, so I hope that we will receive all the sheets today, so that we know the total cost of the budget. Honestly, I'm surprised. We are carrying out the twelve points specifically asked for at the federal level, but it was said yesterday from the Flemish level that something more needs to be done. Why was this not included in the twelve proposals? We need to amend federal legislation, both by Mr De Block and by myself. That is why I find the remark strange that something must also be done at federal level. I assume that some things will happen at federal level, but that the 12 points requested by the regions will have to be implemented in the first instance! The reduction of unemployment benefits over time, productivity and seniority is now under discussion. I will take the right stand in that regard, which I will defend in the federal government. Still, I still find the following strange. There were twelve points of concern from the regions and, in the spirit of the Copernican philosophy, we say that we will carry them out, but for some it is not enough. Another possibility is, of course, that the regions forgot to ask for something. I hope that many are pleasantly surprised by my goodwill towards the regions to carry out everything they have asked for, but what they have not asked for, I cannot do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u20	Minister, I am absolutely not surprised, because I know that you are all positivism for an active labour market policy. Mr van der Donkt, you are indeed right that we need to make labour market policy even more active. It is true that the key role and focus for this are in the regions. There's still a lot of work to be done. For the work deal, let us focus on the essence, on filling out the vacancies in the bottleneck professions. Minister, do not allow political games to be played again in this dossier. No one will be better off, neither the unemployed nor the employers who are looking for the right workers to move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As a former Prime Minister of Flanders, it is to your credit that you say that the federal government is at the service of Flanders. I thought this was the intention at the beginning of this legislature. I have the impression this is first time in four years. Chapeau, Minister! "Jobs, jobs, jobs," that's the slogan of this government. There are a lot of jobs, but they need to be filled out. We must not get ahead of ourselves, because in terms of job creation we are only at 23rd place compared to 30 European countries. On July 21st a good news show usually follows. I'm curious about next week, because then a lot of balloons are always embarrassed, maybe again from a certain festival, but we know that they usually drain very quickly. One would think better about a state reform, and preferably not just think about it but also prepare them. I fully agree with Mr Fons Leroy, because if there is no deal, we can only see that the Community's standstill is very damaging to our prosperity. In order to fill in jobs, we need three things, Minister: state reform, state reform, state reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u22	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for your very short answer. However, the coalition agreement also contains a number of points for which it is already two to twelve and which must therefore be implemented urgently. Allow me to sum them up: the activation of the Renault Act, the remuneration according to competences rather than according to seniority or age, the compulsory registration with the regional mediation service within the month after dismissal, the further elimination of the tax pension trap, the adaptation of the category "adapted available" to "actively available" to strengthen the activation of older unemployed in SWT, the increase of the entry age SWT to 60 years, the introduction of the active availability of SWT to 65 years, the continuation of the strict degressivity and I can continue to do so. You say that this has already happened, but we have not yet seen any concrete elements of it. That leads me to suspect that not only did you celebrate your holiday on 11 July, but that you didn't work very hard on other days either. I had to return your sneer. The unfulfilled commitments of the coalition agreement constitute a whole laundry list and it is your responsibility to implement these points. It is precisely a matter of speeding up the implementation of the coalition agreement in order to get people, people, people to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u23	Minister, last Saturday another jeweller, this time in Oostakker near Ghent, was the victim of a particularly brutal robbery. Two young robbers, one of whom is known because he was killed, threatened the person concerned with a kalashnikov, a weapon of war, or a gun. The man got a gun to his head. Customers were beaten. The jeweler's 88-year-old father was pounded and beaten. At the moment he gave the impression of having a stroke, the other people present in the jewelry store were threatened with the words to let him die. Eventually, the jeweller grabbed a gun and shot one of the robbers who fled when he had the impression, if I may believe his lawyer, that the person concerned would still fire. We do not make the man's process here; let us respect the separation of powers in that area. Has the man acted in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Legal Self-Defense? No. Did the man do our society a favor? Yeah, he sure did. The only thing the population blames the jeweler is perhaps that he's just knocked down one and not both violent robbers. The culprit in the drama is not the jeweller in question; the culprits are not the people who defend themselves in such circumstances by the means they have, but the government. After all, the Justice Department does abandon the jewellers' profession. After all, it does not provide enough security and does not provide sufficient resources to prevent such robberies from happening. In addition, jewellers are hardly insured anymore and receive very high premiums and many conditions. What certainly needs to be done in the wake of the shocking fact is to ask you, Minister, that the government, the majority and yourself as Minister of Justice are considering extending the law on legitimate self-defense, so that the defence of property is also permitted, which unfortunately is not the case now. I would like to see an initiative from you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u24	Mr Dewinter, if I understand you correctly, your question is essentially whether we want to extend the definition of legitimate self-defense to crimes committed against property and not against the person. I believe that your question is difficult to reconcile with Article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which gives an exception when life is robbed. I do not think that the robbery of life is possible when one defends oneself against a capital crime. It's getting close to the direction of the head. I do not like to focus the debate on emotion, Mr Dewinter, however much I understand that there are very serious human feelings and that people are terribly angry. The monopoly of violence rests in our country with the government. Before we go back to that, we must think twice. Just look at the enormous number of deaths in the United States caused by this. That is all I would like to suggest to you at the end of the question and answer. I fully understand the anger of the people. I am not saying that this is self-direction, because legal self-defense will certainly be invoked and the conditions for it can be met. So I am not going to deal with the matter, but you yourself have made an advance on which I do not wish to say yes or no. If, however, one wishes to go further than legal self-defense at the moment, one should look at the American situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u25	You are right, Minister, that the monopoly is based on violence on the part of the government, but then the government must also do everything in its power to minimise the risk of such brutal and violent robbery. Unfortunately, that is not the case, because the list of such brutal robberies has been for too long. In this case, a kalashnikov, a weapon of war, was used. A 88-year-old man was beaten and abused. People were being threatened with a gun. Jewellers are already very threatened in their professional activities. They face all kinds of difficulties in securing and securing themselves. So let us not turn the world upside down and take the side of the victims instead of systematically taking the side of the perpetrators. In such circumstances, the perpetrators sometimes have more rights than the victims. That is why I not only understand, but also support the jeweller concerned in his appeal to self-defense and self-defense, because legal self-defense is ultimately if the government is not able to guarantee the safety of the citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u26	Minister, I have already had the opportunity to question the government about its strategy for the children of Belgian jihadists detained in Iraq or Syria. I didn't get a clear answer. A recent study by Rik Coolsaet and Thomas Renard, specialists in the field, highlights the fact that there would still be no clear strategy on the part of the government towards these Belgian minors, with consequences that can be very serious because most of these children are extremely young – they were born there. This may also be worrying for our safety, since many of these children are destined to return to Belgium. Mr Minister, you said that Belgium had an obligation to bring these children back, certainly the youngest of them. I hope we finally have a clear strategy. What is the government doing at this point? I am in contact with two or three families who have minors there, who know that I am questioning the government on this issue. They tell me that there is absolutely no initiative taken by the government, no contact, no visit to these very young children in detention centres. They wonder what the government is doing. Some families have been able to get in touch with children through the Red Cross; others, not at all, and do not know where these children are in Syria or Iraq. What is your strategy? What is the coordination in Belgium, since some competences depend on the federated entities? I hear there are different strategies in the north and south of the country. What is the coordination at European level? There are reportedly a thousand European children in detention centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u27	Mr Dallemagne, the question of whether children or even adults have a subjective right to return assistance from Syria is currently being debated in judicial proceedings. A decision could be made next week. The competent Belgian administrations consider that there is no legal obligation under international law in the head of our country because of the lack of Belgian control over the area concerned. However, the Government has decided that it will provide assistance to young children. This decision was taken by the National Security Council at the end of 2017 and was confirmed in February 2018. It is not a legal obligation but a moral obligation. I would point out that all known cases of Belgian children eligible for Belgian citizenship and located in Syria are cases of children under the age of 10. There is only one very recent case of an older minor, which is being checked. However, for children under ten years of age, our position is unambiguous: they receive assistance on their return. But this is in no way an obligation to achieve results. Given the situation on the ground, it is not certain that we will succeed. It is necessary to ensure transfers to countries from which returns are possible, to identify children and, for those born there – that is, for the majority of them – to be able to prove the relationship of kinship. The other difficulty is the situation of the adults accompanying these children. I say this without hesitation: the government has no sympathy for these people who have left their own will to join a terrorist group. Given the criminal proceedings or the convictions of some of these individuals, the situation is very difficult, in terms of the separation of powers and security issues, as well as the situation on the ground and the absence of State partners. Our European partners are also faced with difficult debates, as the Egmont Institute report published today points out. Belgium has the merit of having taken a position and having taken the decision to assist in the return of minors. I can assure you that the various services and strategic cells are working intensively on this issue and are looking for solutions. The matter will have to be discussed again in the National Security Council very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u28	Minister, I fully agree with your positions of principle. Majors will have to answer for justice in the country where they have committed their misdeeds. I also agree with your principled positions on minors. In practice, I see no movement, no initiative. That's what people in the field bring back to me. You're talking about moral obligation. Of course, this is one of the considerations, but it is also a matter of our security. Children who are destined to return to Belgium because they are Belgians or Belgian parents could become dangerous to our safety if they were to stay in these camps for too long, if they were to be manipulated, harassed or radicalised. I therefore ask you to adopt a proactive strategy. In contact with the European Union, we could place a diplomat in northern Iraq, in Erbil, since we know that this is the gateway to Iraqi Kurdistan and Syrian Kurdistan. Concrete steps could be taken from there. I understand the difficulties of political representation and contact in these camps, but we have an interest, beyond the principles that I agree with, in putting this strategy in place. We must do this for the protection of these children – in any case for those under the age of 10 – and for ours.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u29	Mr President, Minister, after Albania, Belgium is, as you know, the only country in Europe with no minimum service in prisons. Belgium has been repeatedly condemned for this and we want to do something about it. For this reason, the minimum service was included in the coalition agreement. You've been negotiating this with the guards' unions for a long time. In the end, you submitted a draft law, but a response was not long. The consequences are known to us: there was a quick strike by the guards. This results in miserable living conditions in prisons: no walk, no showers, toddlers in jail and hunger strikes. Complaints are again being made against the Belgian State, the Netherlands no longer makes extraditions, become suspects, even today, released and court cases are postponed. The police must invade, despite all the events and tasks that police officers are already carrying out. I would also like to mention that many people are willing to work and invade prison directories where necessary, sometimes even day and night. I don't want to deny you the reaction of the wife of one of those prison directors. I got the following message from her: "The minimum occupancy has been achieved... at my home." The husband worked day and night in prison to try to remedy the living conditions. We want to avoid all these consequences by introducing minimum services. You have negotiated this in recent weeks and, as I understand it, you have finally submitted a compromise text. The talks would have been constructive. Minister, is there or is there no agreement? That is not entirely clear to me from the press releases. For the time being, the actions have been suspended as of today, which I am pleased with. I read a few things about your proposal in the media, but I would have liked to have heard from you what your compromise text means. Does the minimum service remain in your proposal? How does it work out in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u30	Mr President, Minister, I can be very brief after Mrs De Wit's introduction. Since 19 June, almost three weeks, there has been unrest in prisons due to strikes with all possible consequences since then, as Mrs De Wit has already mentioned. I would like to make a very specific reference to the police zones. Like Mrs. De Wit, I am mayor of a city and also chairman of a police area. I think many fellow mayor knows how much policemen have moaned under the commitment they had to make because the guards were unwilling. So it was also very nice for the police to hear that last Tuesday, just after the football match in which the Belgian team participated, the strike was at least suspended. Judging by several signals and reports in the press, it seems that there is not only a suspension, but also an agreement. What is the content of that agreement, Minister? What measures will be necessary to further develop the minimum service provision?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u31	Mr President, Minister, not so long ago, on 21 June 2018, you were able to confirm here in the Chamber that there will be an effective guaranteed service for strikes in prisons. You also announced that there would be formal consultations at the end of June 2018 or the first week of July 2018. Minister, what we feared and what was to be expected happened. In the meantime, once again, with all the consequences of that, which Mrs De Wit has just quoted. Minister, I would also like to ask you a few questions about press coverage. Firstly, is it right that, and if so, why, even in the event of a hunger strike in inhumane living conditions in prisons, the personnel of the security corps seem unable to be deployed? Nor can the members of civil security intervene, if only to beg meals and medication and to provide shower facilities. Is the message correct? What's the reason for that? Secondly, Minister, we have already been asked about the state of the negotiations. I'd like to get some explanation of what I read in the press. Is it true, Minister, that the guaranteed service would have become a guaranteed service only in the event of strikes against the penitentiary system? In other words, would that mean that, when the consultation comes to what is on the table today, the guaranteed service would not be a fact, for example, in general strikes, strikes against other government drafts or political strikes? Do we therefore receive a hollowed-out guaranteed service? Thirdly, Minister, I understand that it is very difficult to negotiate when prisons are stopped and you are faced with hunger strikes and so on. Is there not the possibility of a split between the negotiations on the social status and, on the other hand, the submission to the Chamber of the draft guarantee service, so that we can move forward and the guaranteed service can become a reality as a matter of urgency?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course, in circumstances such as these, it is sometimes wiser to remain silent than to speak, but I do not want to withhold the necessary information. This negotiation is carried out in accordance with strict timing, which is inspired by social regulation. So I'm following it, as it should be. On 15 June, we adopted a text in the government which was submitted to the trade unions. They formally negotiated with me until Monday. Since then, a period of 15 days has run, ending on 26 July. They will then be able to submit their comments on the last text on 26 July. 26 July is then the time when a protocol is submitted for agreement or not agreement. Whether there is an agreement or not, each trade union will have to decide for its own benefit. In any case, this preliminary draft is continuing, because the formal negotiations have been completed and have ended with new proposals from the government, as should be the case in a good social dialogue. What is the content of the government's proposal, which I hope will at least lead to an agreement for some organisations? A distinction is made between long strikes and short strikes. Long strikes are announced for a period of more than 48 hours. The governor can then appoint people from the corps to ensure the minimum service, willing to work but also not willing to work if there are not enough willing to work. In the event of a short strike, we rely on the police and on civil security, but not at the moment on the security force, because the law of 25 February 2003 does not allow these tasks to be carried out. This does not prevent this from being a system whereby the number of posts to be filled during a short and long strike will be socially consulted per prison. Both will be looked at. I hope that you will be able to vote on this in Parliament in the autumn and that it will come into force next year. Personally, I am not a great liar of breaking up this law, which is a balance, which represents important innovations in terms of the statute of the prison system and of the prison staff, but it is a whole which can be endorsed by all parties. Social struggle, of course, has a long tradition in the prison system. Mr Terwingen, in practice, from 19 June to 10 July was stopped daily. A total of 22 days are concerned, but as there has been a change of pace, eight strike days are stricto sensu, from 9 to 26 June and ten strike days are covered by the alternance system applied by the syndicates from 27 June. During the weekends there was in principle no need for intervention from the police as a relatively large number of staff were present and in any case there was a reduced service table during the weekend. I cannot yet provide any further figures, but I am hopeful that we will be able to approve these texts in Parliament in the autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hope that further consultations will succeed. I am pleased that the distinction between strikes is short and long and not about the purpose of the strike. Mr Minister, three weeks ago I asked the question and I received a lot of reactions. There were reactions from guards and sometimes from citizens who say: they pay far too much attention to prisoners. There were also reactions from the prison staff, actually more of a cry: help us, do something about our working conditions. There were reactions from lawyers and responses from prison staff that it also disagrees with the unions. So it's very diverse. I would like to say very clearly that for our group, the conditions in prisons are not what they should be, not just living conditions but working conditions. We do believe that this security infrastructure should be invested. Even then, this will always have to be with a minimum service, with respect for everyone's rights and without any erosion of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Apparently July 26th is the new deadline. I think we're all gonna follow up on this. I almost wanted to say: the keeper wins, but that would not be appropriate here. I believe that, especially with the necessary empathy and understanding of each other's situation, good agreements can be obtained, which are good for the prisoners, for their families, for their lawyers, for the guards. I think this is very important in a rule of law. One can measure the civilisation of a society by the way one deals with one's prisoners. A balanced result is therefore very important in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for reassuring me that there will be guaranteed service for all long strikes. That's very important. It goes without saying that if you can come up with an integrated solution, it is even better. But if that does not work, at least take care of the guaranteed service. There's a real need for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u36	Mr President, Madam Minister, at the Forensic Psychiatric Centre (FPC) in Ghent it became known that interns who reside there are difficult to "successfully" flow to society or regular psychiatry, i.e. the institutions. A few months ago, that was only the case for 45 out of 260 interns in three years' time. This creates a bottleneck in the center and an additional problem in the prisons, as the interns who stay in prison cannot flow to those centres. The managers of the center point, among other things, with an accusing finger at the lack of places in the regular facilities, with which they apparently have less easy contacts as a private operator from the Netherlands. In fact, we have already pointed out this problem in the allocation of the operating licence. You understand that with regard to this limited flow to the regular sector, I come to you with my questions. You have already made a visit to the FPC in 2015 and I quote: "The aim of this institution is to receive and guide patients first and foremost in good, decent conditions, and then we want them to flow to institutions with medium security or to regular care, such as guided or individual living, so that these people can gradually function and integrate into society." You also said at that time that there would be support to provide more care and guidance for interned people outside prison and for initiatives that interned people with a double diagnosis. However, as I said, at the end of last year the people of the centre raised the alarm. They argued that interned persons who can transit are denied access by less secure facilities. One of the reasons for this would be the lack of cooperation within the healthcare sector to further address interned people. Psychiatric institutions have no obligation to record and the criteria they provide are often not adapted to interned persons. That was said last year, and today we are reading again in the press about this lack of flow. I come to my questions. Madam Minister, there are all kinds of figures in the press, but I wonder if you can see the actual number of people that could pass through, but that is not possible because of the problems quoted. Is the figure 85 accurate? Do you hold consultations with the Communities on this matter? After all, there's an overlap. What further steps will you take to solve the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u37	Mrs Jiroflée, thank you for your question. To clarify my powers and possibilities: together with the Minister of Justice, I do not foresee the necessary care for interns. However, what we do not regulate as ministers is the case law and the associated individual treatment, and possibly also the flow. The responsibilities we complete together are the start of additional FPCs, the creation of longstay departments where we have carried out several small-scale projects, the creation of departments for different target groups of internees, such as recently interned with mental illness, and also for people with disabilities. This is a significant enlargement which will only increase in the coming years. The flow from an FPC takes time, given the necessary customization about which care is needed and where it can be provided: preferably as close as possible to the environment of the interned. There are also wishes to do this as close to the family as possible. People and facilities that have worked separately for years must now work intensively together. That takes time, because one has to get to know one another. On the Flemish side, the effort has also been made to organise more reception in the regular circuit. That is ambitious and not easy, but it is the only way to get our interns to have proper treatment after all these years. When I paid a work visit to the FPC, there was no flow department yet. That is a question of logical follow-up: they are four stages of which the first two were populated and the natural process to the following stages continues afterwards. This is actually the first generation of interned people to be treated decently after years of policy failure. I have also been told that they have suffered considerable damage to detention. Our goal, mine and the Minister of Justice, remains the same: to take great steps and create a positive dynamic in the reception of prisoners. We will persevere in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u38	Madam Minister, I am sure that much has happened in that area, but we are now faced with this whole niche: there are interns who are ready to go to regular psychiatry, but they cannot do so because things go wrong on the ground, if I may call it that. Of course, it cannot be that a forensic psychiatric center cannot function properly because the care key is not present. Anyone who needs care should have it. That is one of the fundamental values of our society, and we are counting on you to do so, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u39	Mr President, Madam Minister, ENGIE wants to get rid of the nuclear slate. Madam Minister, I assume that, like me, you have read this testimony, which was published this morning in La Libre. This alarm signal is being fired, ladies and gentlemen, not by an environmentalist but by a former ENGIE official who, until December 2017, was negotiating the plan called "Bianca" at the time. That is to say, he is well informed of the undersides of the cards that are played in this negotiation. He explains how ENGIE Electrabel is organising the company's insolvency in Belgium and transferring the cost of managing the dismantling and management of nuclear waste to the Belgian citizen. Madam Minister, let us be very clear! For environmentalists, this is unacceptable. These costs are the exclusive responsibility of ENGIE Electrabel and the producers. The consumer, the Belgian citizen, has already paid out of his bills. There's no way he'll pay a second time. However, from our previous discussions, I know that the bill will explode because of the cost of waste management and dismantling. You talked about it in committee less than a month ago. That is why this senior official says that action is urgent and that a law must be passed. It is also very critical, as you have read, of your proposal to create a kind of guarantee for ENGIE to be the guarantor of Electrabel. It doesn't hold the road well enough. It therefore makes two counter-proposals, on which I would like to question you. It invites you, on the one hand, to ask the ONDRAF to calculate the worst case scenario and, on the other hand, to adopt a law quickly, so that ENGIE cannot lower its own funds below the estimated amount of this worst case scenario. Minister, do you intend to follow these proposals? We need to position you today. Today we must reassure you and reassure us, citizens and consumers. No, their bills won't be impacted! No, ENGIE will not make the law. No, it is not ENGIE that will decide the future of our energy security today!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u40	Mr President, honourable Member, I assure you right away: we have obviously not waited, as you yourself point out in your question, for the alarm of an old ENGIE to act. Indeed, it has been weeks since we have been working on this extremely important and sensitive issue that the government – I assure you a second time – takes very seriously. For a first text, we are at the IKW stage. I announced it in committee recently. Today, we are working on a text that provides for a framework enabling Belgium to guarantee the sufficiency and availability of provisions when necessary. This is an extremely difficult process to evaluate over time, as it will take decades to take action around 2040 and end around 2120. This uncertainty for the investor, as the person who expresses himself under the guise of anonymity in the article you quote and who appears today in the press, is very difficult to assess. The ONDRAF must try to frame a figure that allows everyone (the government and the operator) to know what the amount of the provisions for the future is. For the past, we know what is happening, but for the future, we want to have more precise figures. The ONDRAF is working on it. It is also under this government that Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters and I have repeatedly called on ONDRAF to obtain a step-by-step scenario to guarantee this path that leads us to correct encryption. We will surely have the opportunity to discuss this issue again. When I receive a response from ONDRAF to our last letter, we will discuss it in committee and see what successive steps we must take with this body for the exact, technically valid costing of the provision for nuclear supplies. In the near future, we will have an opportunity to debate the bill that will be before you by the government. It will be a structured text which, as you will see, guarantees the Belgian state well against a risk – which we absolutely do not want – of having the citizen pay for nuclear supplies a second time. We want the polluter pays principle to prevail; whether it is the operator who takes over the risk of nuclear supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u41	Madam Minister, I am dubious. You're talking about IKW, steps, paths. But what the person in charge is talking about is urgent. What ENGIE is talking about, who participated in the negotiations and who knows the secret plan of ENGIE Electrabel, is to put in place a mechanism to calculate the cost of the worst scenario. You do not mention this in your answer. You're saying you're going to provide a frame for the script. No! What is required is that the worst-case scenario, the one that costs the most, be evaluated by ONDRAF. Then ENGIE Electrabel would pay the necessary funds, even if they were repaid afterwards. On the contrary, you are referring to the fact that the difference will be billed to the citizen. It will be up to him to bear the cost once ENGIE is gone. This is unacceptable. That's why you have to work. I didn't hear from you the commitment to ask ONDRAF to work on the worst-case scenario, and I regret it. At that time, we would know the figures, and ENGIE will have to pay: not Belgian citizens or consumers!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u42	Madam Secretary, once upon a time there was a government with a great promise. That government was the N-VA government and its promise was that it would put things in order and ensure a balanced budget. That government is still there, unfortunately. But that promise really doesn't make any difference. Yesterday, the report of the Monitoring Committee, the budgetary watchdog, drew attention to the number of billions left to be searched for for the route you have set yourself and agreed to. We note that even in the most optimistic scenario of maintaining the budget and achieving that path, your government, which is still difficult to call a team, especially in view of the past debates today, will soon have to look for EUR 2.6 billion for 2019. I believe that it is now quite clear that the N-VA has brought anything but the power of change in this area. After four years under Charles Michel, we still have a budgetary mess, despite the index jump, despite the fact that people have to work longer, despite the fact that people's electricity bill is more expensive than ever before. Madam Minister, looking for EUR 2.6 billion is still the most optimistic scenario. It also seems to be a bit of a censored version. Colleagues, we should all be concerned about this, either left or right, majority or opposition. What we read in the Monitoring Committee's report is really unseen. In his report, the budgetary watchdog says in black and white that it cannot endorse the optimistic scenario that the government is forcing the committee to do. Madam Secretary, the Monitoring Committee has had it. It is all the creativity, all the half-truths of your government in terms of the budget, and it is now saying this in black and white for the first time in its report. That's a scoop. There seems to be political interference now, Madam Secretary. The Monitoring Committee does not seem to have the freedom to really make the forecasts it wants to make, and it must weaken the forecasts. In the most optimistic case, the effort is 2.6 billion. That amount would even double if the Monitoring Committee were to do its way. By 2024, it means that the government has to look for 10 billion. I understand that your government prefers to cover up such figures, Madam Secretary, but that does not fit in with a democracy. I would therefore like to hear your response to the conclusions that we can read in the report and in the press. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u43	Mr President, Madam Minister, what have we not heard that, thanks to this majority of government, budgetary rigour would finally be at hand, finally the fiscal trajectories of the Stability Pact would be respected, that this would undoubtedly be the great difference from previous budgetary lax majorities? And yet, after budget, after budget adjustment, after budget adjustment, the independent bodies responsible for verifying the credibility of the figures given by the government are constantly warning the government of the unreliability of the figures it provides. Even recently, the Court of Auditors, when examining the budgetary adjustment, recalled, not without concern, that, with a view to achieving structural balance in 2020, it was surprising that the government did not provide any concrete measures to meet this commitment. The Court had therefore not failed to observe that several tax revenues were either annulled as a result of judicial or judicial decisions or were the subject of appeals pending before the courts. The total amount of the loss of profits is estimated at nearly 500 million, plus 222 million and some related to the elimination of the excess profit rules, the 462 million under-financing of the tax shift, the shortfall of nearly 500 million euros of the Cayman tax, the problem of the slide in advance payments, also raised by the European Commission. In short, the budget gap would already amount to more than €2.5 billion. The Supreme Council of Finance did not fail to observe that a deterioration in the structural budgetary situation was to be feared in 2018. He called on the government to "take the necessary structural measures during the current and next fiscal years so that the path can be achieved in the stability programme". Then, the Federal Office of the Plan also gave alarmist forecasts. And today appears the report of the Monitoring Committee setting out the objectives to be achieved in order to comply with this Stability Pact. With no policy changes, the EESC estimates that €668 billion will have to be found in the run-up to 2020, of which €2.66 billion will be needed to meet the 2019 budget requirements. Madam Minister, your government can no longer deceive Parliament or public opinion for a long time in the light of the findings of the independent bodies. I therefore ask you two questions. Will you still resort to the subterfuge to eventually postpone the structural balance beyond 2020? Or will you stick to the commitment made in the Stability Pact 2018-2021? And what are, today, already on the table, the structural measures envisaged by the government to meet the objectives set by the agencies, whose alarms are more than worrying?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u44	Mr President, Madam Minister, the balance sheet of 14-18 – not the First World War, but the first four years of this legislature – translates into efforts of the order of 18 billion euros, imposed on the population in the name of austerity. All these measures have failed to achieve a balanced budget, as your government has multiplied the gifts to big capital, particularly through the tax shift. The Monitoring Committee is announcing another 8 billion efforts to ensure that the budget path is respected until 2021. Similarly, it foresees an effort of 2.6 billion for 2019. It should be noted, however, that a few weeks earlier, the Federal Office of the Plan was talking about $4.6 billion. There is cause for concern, given that this government has a habit of manipulating the figures. One therefore wonders, and this is not only the case of the PTB, since L'Echo – a newspaper that is not known as a leftist – says: "Michel twisted the arm of the Monitoring Committee". Previously, the government manipulated the latter's figures after receiving them; from now on, it does so even before they are known. In addition, the Monitoring Committee states that it has been obliged to take account of the return effect of several measures, such as starters jobs, e-commerce. The government is deceitful not only by manipulating the numbers, but also by engaging in the magical invocation of this return effect. Instead, we should talk about a boomerang effect. Belgium is, in fact, one of the countries with the lowest employment growth. You're a little the government of the negative return effect. Finally, is that not logical when we break the purchasing power of our fellow citizens? Madam Minister, the next government – but above all the population – will inherit what could be called the "Wilmès slate", that is several billion euros of efforts to be made once again. Aren't you embarrassed by the "gift" you give to future generations? Then, who are you going to charge in the next and last fiscal years? Will it be the population or will you target the rich? It is well known that 1% of the wealthiest holds 500 billion assets. Finally, do you not consider that sound budgetary functioning implies the genuine independence of bodies such as the Monitoring Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u45	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the 160 pages of the Monitoring Committee's report contain, in particular, these figures taken from the press, namely an effort to achieve nearly €3 billion for 2019 and almost €7 billion for 2020. These are figures that are less "worse" than those announced by the Plan Bureau, since the Monitoring Committee incorporates assumptions that are a little more favourable to the government but without really believing in them. In any case, making efforts to the tune of 3 or 4 billion, the figures are there and the slate is heavy! Your line of defense, Madam Minister, is to say that "it was planned." So it would be a little less serious than we thought. It was planned except that at the beginning of the legislature, what was planned was a return to fiscal balance for 2018 or 2019. This forecast has not been honoured, on the contrary! It is a record of failure that must be made against this objective, a finding of failure that is not due to your willingness to support growth or to stimulate recovery as growth forecasts are revised downwards. This finding of failure is simply due to the method followed by this government, which clearly did not produce the expected effects. Minister, at this stage, I would like to know what course of action you intend to follow in terms of methodology. Will you finally present us with a "truth" budget, including in the Finance Committee as soon as the government has agreed? Or do you intend to maintain the recipes you used from the beginning? Will you continue to inflate technical corrections as much as possible, to postpone, until later, the real efforts to be made? Will you continue to speculate on measures of more or less fictitious savings such as the famous "redesign" of the state? Will you continue to bet on random and, in any case, unverifiable recipes like the famous Cayman tax revenues? Will you continue to claim that the effects of the bounty you benefit from are structural in nature, such as the mention of advance payments by companies? If you maintain your course of action; Madam Minister, it will be a clear way to signify that you are handing over the hot potato to the next government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u46	Minister, the report of the Monitoring Committee has indeed come out. We were waiting for him. It's not a surprise at all. In order to meet the objectives of the Stability Pact, the Monitoring Committee has made the necessary efforts of 2.6 billion. Nor is this a surprise since the government had anticipated them in its multi-year budgets. With no policy changes, as Mr Maingain has said, the Monitoring Committee estimates that the nominal deficit will be 1.26%, while the structural deficit will be 1.13%. However, in 2014, we were 3.1% of GDP and 2.9% of the structural deficit. This means that improvement is proven and considerable. Several factors may explain the situation. There is, of course, a definitive determination of the autonomy factor. There is the tax shift, but it is an effect that has been achieved since we wanted to restore purchasing power to the population and citizens up to an additional 1.5 billion. So we take full responsibility. Support for purchasing power, support for work, reward for work are values that we defend. Reasoned fiscal consolidation as set by the government, i.e. an improvement in public finances while developing the economy, is quite consistent with the policy we support. We are already talking about specific issues when we are simply at the beginning of the budget work. So I'm not going to ask you a specific question, minister, except that I would like to know the timing of the budget work? And how does this work fit into the European framework? That is what is fundamental.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u47	Debacle and mischievous, this is what characterizes fiscal policy and the management of public finances by your government, Minister. Debacle, because here we are confronted with a problem that you yourself have created by the economic and budgetary inefficiency of the various measures adopted by your government which, supposedly, had to revive the economy: a blank cheque of more than €6 billion of reductions in social contributions to, you said, boost employment and investment. This is not the case; income tax reductions, financed by increases in consumption taxes, for at least EUR 3 billion; in total, a shift tax – this reform is supposed to upset our way of making economic policy with positive results, which are absent – a tax shift of which two thirds are not funded, or EUR 6 billion. It is this ball that makes us in this situation of budgetary failure today. Add to this, mischievous things, tricks and tricks, misconceptions, swellings of revenue, new measures decided by your government, which are not on the road and are criticized by the Court of Auditors' report in relation to the Court of Auditors. All of this, you've swept it away with a back of your hand every time, and we're faced with the realities! Realities that catch up with you and lead us to ask today the question of how you are going to do it in order to meet your commitments to achieve budgetary balance at some point in time. Are you going to saber again in public spending? As if this had not already been done, in a deplorable way for the population, but above all ineffective for the whole economic fabric: the SNCB, minus 3 billion! Are you going to cut back on social security spending again? As if you hadn't already put the sick people to good use? Or are you going to puncture again in the pocket of our fellow citizens with tax increases? The question today is how will you solve the problems that you yourself have created?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u48	Madam Secretary, last night the Monitoring Committee's report finally entered. Before we discuss this report, I would like to ask you, on behalf of the whole of Parliament, the following question: can you assure Parliament today that the Monitoring Committee can work, decide and report independently? That question has indeed been raised today in the light of various insinuations in the press and on the basis of certain elements of the Monitoring Committee's report. I would like to have a clear answer to that. As far as the report itself is concerned, we must conclude that the road to structural equilibrium is not an easy one. The report of the Monitoring Committee is, after all, worrying. You will therefore have to go the right way to reach the agreement reached in the majority and in Parliament to achieve a structural balance as quickly as possible. I would like to draw your particular attention to two elements, Madam Minister. Firstly, tax revenue will increase by more than 1.2 billion in 2019. Of these, 1 billion will automatically go to the Regions and the Communities through the Finance Act. Of course, this is a good thing for the Regions and the Communities, but a structural budget balance is not only an objective of the federal government, but also of the Regions and the Communities. So cooperation federalism must finally achieve results here today. In what way will you structure the consultations between the Federal Government and the Regions and the Communities in order to achieve a structural balance? Secondly, I am surprised that some ministers have already made a list of additional expenditures. For example, the main theme of EUR 410 million would be security. Of course security is a top priority, but, Madam Minister, we also call for special attention to be paid to other priorities in our country. In our country 65 000 people get cancer every year, which is 180 people per day or 8 people per hour. They all deserve the best care and every chance of healing. I hope that the entire government, along with Maggie De Block, will continue to make successful cancer treatments a top priority. I would therefore ask you to pay particular attention to these two points.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u49	Madam Minister, I have noticed two things in the reading of the Monitoring Committee report. The first relates to the figures. The report shows that the government still has 8 billion to go for the promised result of a budget balance, not by 2018, as we know by now, but by 2020. When the government took office, it was 10 billion and now it is 8 billion. So the government has caused a 2 billion drop, while it has the wind in the sails at economic growth and low interest rates. I can say that this is an embarrassing achievement. That brings me to my second point. The fact that this is shameful is also demonstrated by the fact that a number of members of the Monitoring Committee do not wish to sign the report on certain points. It is said that the President has come up with conclusions which are far too optimistic. It appears that those conclusions were written at the request of the government. I can only see that the government is ashamed of its results and is therefore trying to imagine it all a little more favourable and rosy than it really is. Madam Secretary, that is outrageous. You risk going down in history not only as the worst Minister of the Budget, but also as a minister trying to cover up the real figures and propose them better. My question is therefore very simple. Have you or any member of the government put pressure on the Monitoring Committee to propose the issues in the report much more favourable than is the case in reality?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u50	Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are always looking forward to the report of the Monitoring Committee. I have to admit that this time, even more than usual, the report is really very interesting. The final decision of the Monitoring Committee report is that we need to clean up EUR 2.66 billion for the 2019 budget in order to stay on the path we have agreed with Europe. I, too, noted that the Monitoring Committee included in its report on page 20 a passage in which it distanced itself from its own report. Apparently that's the first time in history. The Monitoring Committee therefore wrote a report with a conclusion which it disassociates itself at the same time. According to the Monitoring Committee, the effort to stay on the budget path for 2019 amounts to 2.66 billion if the government maintains its view on the advance payments and the tax shift and takes the necessary measures in medical care, for around 650 million euro, of which 150 this year and 500 next year, does not include the already known volume effects on asylum and migration. Mr Van Biesen, I agree with you that an independent report by the Monitoring Committee is a very important condition for a serious budgetary policy. Parliament must uphold transparency and demand a serious and transparent report. I also heard that the government is preparing a number of proposals for new policies. New policies are good, but there would already be a list of EUR 400 million. I am naturally optimistic, Madam Secretary. So are you, as Budget Minister. That is a credit to you, but we must also be realistic about the budget. The Monitoring Committee must first be able to play its role and do its job. It is then up to the government to start work on the Monitoring Committee's report. I have also advocated in the Chamber that the growth agenda should be fully supported. If we were to stop economic growth of 1.7%, the government's budgetary exercise would be even more difficult. We strongly support the Prime Minister's investment pact and the growth agenda he has launched. It is your ambition, Madam Minister, to combine this growth agenda with the realisation of the goal of balancing the budget by 2020. That's a difficult exercise. However, I am calling for serious and transparent budgetary work. Madam Secretary, first of all, what is your view of the Monitoring Committee's present report? Secondly, when and how will the current government start its budget work for 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u51	Colleagues, thank you for your many questions. I'll try to be as brief as possible. What does the Monitoring Committee say? He tells us that in order to achieve the 0.56% structural deficit target, in accordance with the stability programme, an effort of 2.6 billion must be made in 2019 with unchanged policy. It is a matter of taking account of the evolution of the fiscal trajectory, but also of continuing fiscal consolidation. These two objectives must be met in order to achieve this 2.6 billion effort. This has been explained to Parliament on several occasions, both during the debates on the initial 2018 budget and during the tabling of the stability programme. Discussions took place. The initial budget was voted in December. For those who have forgotten it – I have the document with me – it reports on budgetary developments with unchanged policy. So no one here will believe that this is a slip or a surprise. I have indeed explained on several occasions during these debates the reasons for this change in the unchanged political fiscal trajectory. I shall therefore not go back to this subject; I do, however, take note of the remark or qualification expressed by the Socialist Party, when it referred to our desire to reduce the tax on workers and particularly on the lowest wages as a "bulk". It is true that we are working on the basis of a monitoring committee. What is the Committee's report? It is a working tool that serves as the basis for budgetary discussions. The Committee is based on assumptions that must always be analysed, which we do systematically. That is why the line-by-line analysis of this report, which is being carried out by our experts, began this morning, in order to verify the accuracy of the information transmitted to the Monitoring Committee and the consistency between it. Mrs Smaers, the report of the Monitoring Committee does not take into account new applications. Efforts must be made regardless of a new application. As far as the European Commission is concerned, you know that in April we submitted the Belgian stability programme, which provides for a structural deficit of 0.56% in 2019, as I said, and a structural balance by 2020 with a relaxation of the effort by that time. This approach does indeed take into account the government's desire not to over-do the recovery of the economy by overly drastic budgetary measures. You want to know the outcome of the conclave. It's kind of like you're asking for the result of the game before the kickoff! It is the government as a whole that will determine the actions to be taken after analysis of the report and according to the objective pursued. With regard to relations between the government and the Monitoring Committee – I have read the press like you – it is normal that in the preparation of the Committee's report, the competent ministers should be in contact with their administrations. This report must indeed be a synthesis of the information provided by the latter. If you have read the report, you will have found that the Monitoring Committee has made maximum assumptions about risk analysis. For my part, at first reading, some of these assumptions seem to me at least questionable. You understand who if the government had written this report, it would not have written it that way. We received this report a few minutes before the other members of the Committee. Mr Laaouej, the analysis according to which the effort to be made would be the result of a budgetary inconclusiveness or a tendency to rely on non-existent returns cannot, frankly, be taken seriously because the government has anticipated and announced the trajectory as it now exists and results have been achieved so far at the budgetary level. I would point out that in three years we have divided the deficit by three and finally started debt reduction, while at the same time providing favourable conditions for job creation. These are not fantasies, they are not projections, they are the results observed and confirmed by an independent institution, namely the Institute of National Accounts. The repeated criticism of the reasons for this reorganisation also makes no sense. We cannot call for strict monitoring of the budget and at the same time explain that the reorganisation is the result of chance. The decline in the nominal deficit since the beginning of this government is mainly due to the increase in the primary balance, i.e. the balance excluding interest on debt. As regards the undoubtedly positive impact of the economic situation, we also note that the primary structural balance, i.e. the balance excluding interest on debt and the economic situation, has almost doubled since 2014. Only these two elements show that the results obtained are mainly the result of government policy. Mr Maingain, you spoke of the differences in forecasts between the government, the European Commission, the National Bank and the Federal Office of the Plan. It is true that there are differences from the beginning. To explain these differences, it is necessary to understand, without at all questioning the legitimacy of their work, that these independent institutions work differently, i.e. that they each use a particular model and work at different times when macroeconomic projections are not the same, taking into account different measures taken by the government. It goes without saying, by methodology alone, that the results are different. And, without calling into question the work done by these institutions, it must be noted that none of them is able to work with figures as detailed as those collected by the administrations, which are as close to the ground as possible. Here I give you an example of the latest forecast figures for the 2017 deficit. We had estimated this deficit at 1.2%. The European Commission had estimated it at 1.5 per cent and the Federal Office of the Plan at 1.9 per cent, while the National Bank estimated it at 2 per cent. And we closed the year with a deficit of 1%, a result that is much better and closer to the government's estimates. In conclusion, as usual, the beginning of budgetary work is the subject of interpretations, wishes and even fantasies. I assure you, for my part, that we will continue to work with thoroughness and serenity. It is obvious that we will come back to this Parliament in due course with more concrete elements, namely a budget proposal for 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u52	Mr President, Minister, it is with some understanding that I am replicating. If there is good news, the Prime Minister will tell us. When there's bad news, Mrs. Wilmès has to show up. I repeat, therefore, that we may add your appeal to the list of heavy-duty professions. [[Nevertheless, I can only go against a number of points.]] There are three points. Firstly, you say that the budgetary results are the result of a political choice and that the government wants to make the economic engine run. Madam Secretary, neither does the economic engine. So you do not have a budget in balance or an economic engine running. This is noticeable today in Europe's growth rates, where we are among the lowest in the whole European class. So we have neither a budget in balance nor an economy in full swing. Secondly, Madam Minister, with regard to the Monitoring Committee, it may have fallen a bit between the folds, but you are going even further. You have also said here today that you disagree with the Monitoring Committee on a number of points and that the report, if you had written it, would have looked different. So there are doubts today about the independence of the Monitoring Committee. Instead of reassuring Parliament about the independence of the Monitoring Committee, you are attacking the committee further at its work, on its hypothesis and on its estimates. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, that is unacceptable. We need a budgetary watchdog to inform you and us. I am looking at the chairman of the Finance Commission following the Minister's statements and following what is written in black and white in the report, in particular that the Monitoring Committee is apparently unable to do its work completely autonomously, must restrain itself and dose its assessment. I would therefore very much like to take this opportunity to look at the chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, who is the chairman of the Monitoring Committee in the Finance Committee in the very near future. After all, I want to know what happened there. Madam Secretary, I understand that the assessments of the Monitoring Committee are not pleasant for you. In this case, however, you must adjust your own policies instead of attacking and censoring the authors of the reports. Thirdly, we did not hear the N-VA in the debate today. However, we know what will happen in the coming days and weeks. Soon another big interview from the Great Leader will follow to report that these budgetary results will have to be cut into social security. I would ask the members of the CD&V, perhaps also the members of the Open Vld and the members of the MR not to give in to that message. It is not because Johan Van Overtveldt does not make up his homework that the sick, the pensioners and the working people have to pay the price for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u53	Minister, because the disaster was announced, should it be excused? That is the reasoning: because we announced it, we are not surprised. By definition, independent bodies are working on unverifiable and questionable assumptions. Our administrations - that's what you said - are better aware of the reality of the budget than the independent bodies. Is it understandable that your administrations are not working frankly with the Court of Auditors, with the Monitoring Committee, with the Federal Bureau of the Plan to make known the realities experienced by the administrations in terms of the commitment of appropriations, the expenses assumed, the budgetary forecasts? One may wonder whether the government itself is not instructing its administrations not to allow full transparency for independent oversight bodies, which would be serious! Now we need to clarify things. Indeed, there is a constant in all forecasts regardless of the independent body: there are overestimated revenues for a number of taxes which you have said would bring back dizzying sums that are never checked. On the other hand, all consider that there are a number of government projects that are not funded, as is the case with the tax shift. No more fakes, no more loopholes by telling us that, in the end, we will make adjustments to the margin because we will discover some credits that have not been used by the administrations. The truth is that your economic policy leads us to record the lowest rates of GDP growth and employment in Europe because you have made counterproductive choices in terms of economic policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u54	Minister, your answer is doubly disturbing. First of all, you justify interference in the Monitoring Committee, since you tell us and I quote you: "It is normal for the competent ministers to be in contact with their administration when the Monitoring Committee's report is drawn up". No, it's not normal, minister! The Monitoring Committee should be completely free from the government, at the time of writing, in order for the basis to be objective. Obviously, they are not yet sufficiently submissive, to hear you, since you would have liked them to go even further in their submission. What is also challenging is your justification for maintaining the deficit, which I called the "Wilmès slate" that you leave to the next government. You justify it to us by saying that we must not stifle the revival. But we know what recovery policies are for you. These are policies of giving to capital and which you have already carried out widely. If we are still in deficit with the 18 billion efforts imposed on the population during these four years, that is precisely why. You've multiplied the gifts. With your tax shift, finally, the workers and the population are completely losing. The taxes they paid on less than one side, they paid them in addition to the other. It's balanced. But where does the hole come from? It comes from the billions that have been given to employers in the form of reductions in social contributions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u55	Mr President, I did not expect much from this question-and-answer session, but the least I can say is that I am not reassured by what has been said in this rostrum. I want to say that it starts badly, even if we are only at the beginning of the process. In your remarks, Madam Minister, I have found no evidence of voluntarism in relation to this budget-truth that I call for. You detail the procedural problems, the method problems, the scheduling problems, but on the substance, we will have to wait for the government to pronounce itself. There's not much voluntarism in your head. Then I heard, on the part of the parties of the majority, some form of overbidding. This is not reassuring with regard to the cohesion of the majority. The N-VA had already spoken in the press. The Open Vld gives the reply now: do not touch social security! Health is becoming a priority. Clearly, it is anticipated that a pre-electoral trophy will be required for each of the majority parties. I don't think that's a good omen. Above all, I have heard doubts in the majority about the independence of the Monitoring Committee. Your answer, objectively, is hardly reassuring with regard to these doubts. I do not express my opinion, but at any rate I would like to turn to the Chairman of the Finance Committee to invite him very clearly to convene the Monitoring Committee. It may never have happened. But I think, Mr President, that you would be well inspired to do so so that we can lift the doubt about this form of independence, or this form of suspicion that might mislead our future debates. It's really important that we leave an assaine base. So I agree with that call. I hope you will be able to act on it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u56	Mr President, I think the Monitoring Committee has done its job very well. He did it independently. However, he did not note the following: in 2016, opposition to Parliament claimed that before the communal elections, 9.8 billion would have to be found. The Monitoring Committee is putting forward the figure of 2.6 billion. The opposition had announced a budgetary disaster. Every time, this disaster is not true. You make us paintings that evoke The Medusa Radeau, but you're the one on it. Go on like this, minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u57	Minister, the conclusion to be drawn is that your government is unable to manage public finances. We can see it. You have increased consumption taxes for almost 3 billion euros. You cut the railway budget by more than 3 billion euros. Justice has its budget cut by hundreds of millions. You have carried out cuts without thinking, out of pure brutality, out of pure ideology, in the departments of state, especially in those which are indispensable to all users, therefore of the population. Should we call him back? As far as your economic policy is concerned, you have imposed a wage bill of 12.5 billion in five years. All this for what result? A budgetary hole of 8.4 billion by 2019. That is the reality of the figures, minister. What are you going to do? Again send the bill back to our fellow citizens? Watching pensioners? Decreasing the means of all our public services? What are you going to do? Increase taxes? This is today's debate. Madam Minister, you have not answered any questions, for a simple reason: you are in a hurry! The alternative is as follows. Either you continue to make budgetary lies, or you plunge your hand into the pockets of our fellow citizens. However, one thing is clear: we will not let you do it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say something. I did not see this report by the Monitoring Committee as a reason for a discussion such as it has been held over the last few minutes by the colleagues of the opposition, who are suddenly trying to say with fundamental lies that the current budget is one big lie. It is not by lying that you can show that something is a lie, colleagues of the opposition. There has been a great deal of progress in the budgetary effort that this government must make. However, the road is clearly not finished. A very great effort will have to be made. Madam Minister, I would therefore ask you once again, after the employment deal with the Regions, to pay particular attention to a budget deal, with more clear agreements on the stability plan for achieving that balance. Especially when there are 1.2 billion more receipts in 2019, these should be fairly distributed between Regions, Communities and the federal entity and ensure a reduction of the deficit. Madam Secretary, the Monitoring Committee must be able to work in complete independence. The government is not obliged to take over the figures of the Monitoring Committee. It is the government that decides on the budget. The Monitoring Committee shall produce figures. However, intervening when the Monitoring Committee has yet to deliver its figures is fundamentally incorrect. In other words, I would ask you to ensure that there is no more interference in the Monitoring Committee as it has done.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u59	Mr President, Minister, it is always a special spectacle to see how the majority parties keep trying to imagine that the budget is a fantastic celebration and that everything is in order. National and international observers say other things about this, but I do not want to talk about it today. Madam Secretary, I have not received an answer from you as to whether the government has interfered with the Monitoring Committee. You said you read it in the press. I would expect that, if you learn that from the press and if you read the quotes in the Monitoring Committee report, where a number of Members suggest that there is interference and they do not want to sign, you would at least want clarification on this. That's something that has to weigh heavily. I hear colleagues from the majority here telling you that such interference is unacceptable. This is absolutely unacceptable, but you are answering alongside the issue today. I understand that you yourself have not taken any initiative to go to the Monitoring Committee to clarify it, perhaps because the suggestion is correct. Madam Minister, I can only conclude that the government has fallen deeply if we try to manipulate the budgetary work in this way. I can only support the request of a number of colleagues to have the chairman of the Monitoring Committee explain this in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u60	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Firstly, the Monitoring Committee must be able to do its work transparently and optimally with a view to a serious budgetary policy. I hope that this will be possible in the future and that the government will allow it. It is after that that the government must do its job and have every right to take action. Secondly, you're still very optimistic, which I respect. You're an optimistic, passionate budget minister. The fact that you remain optimistic is sometimes necessary as a budget minister, especially in this government. It is true that this government has taken important structural measures. We fully support the measures on pensions, the tax shift, the reform of corporate taxation and the modernisation and reform of justice. These are all important measures and packages that this government has taken, but the final part of the budget and ensuring that all these measures are effectively financed must follow. It has always been an important point of our group not to lose sight of the budgetary vacuum either. Finally, I ask you to be realistic as well as optimistic. We know it will not be easy for 2019, but I believe that election years should not be lost years, not even in terms of budget. If we can do a favor for our next generation, it is sure to do solid budgetary work for 2019 in the summer of 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u61	Mr President, as chairman of the Finance Committee, I can only propose that the chairman of the Monitoring Committee be heard in committee on Tuesday morning. It is now printed that there is a minority and a majority. I think that this should be clarified before the discussion begins next week. The Committee on Finance and the Budget always takes all these reports very seriously and also from the European Commission, the Planning Bureau and the High Council for Finance. The figures are now being confirmed. After what has been said here, as chairman of the committee, I take the initiative to ask the chairman of the monitoring committee to come to committee on Tuesday morning to know his position.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u62	Mr Van Rompuy, I thank you for that proposal, but since the Chair of the Monitoring Committee itself is an actor in this discussion, as the quote in the report shows, it is important to invite other members of the Monitoring Committee as well. I would ask you to make that effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u63	Mr President, I support this request because, when we read the report of the Monitoring Committee, it is clear that there have been clear disagreements within it. Indeed, the Chairman of the Monitoring Committee clearly defended a different view from that of the other members of the Committee. This information can be found in Table 4 of the Monitoring Committee's report. It therefore seems essential to me to hear, perhaps all the members of the Monitoring Committee or in any case, a representative palette. What is wrong is to receive the only word from the Chairman of the Monitoring Committee. I welcome your initiative, Mr. Chairman, but receiving the Chairman of the Monitoring Committee alone will not be enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u64	We shall leave it to the wisdom of the chairman of the committee to decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u65	Mr President, Minister, after hearing so many horrible things, a few minutes ago, I would like to congratulate the minister on his speed and efficiency. When things go well, you have to be able to say it. We're not saying it enough in politics. I congratulate him for his speed, as the bill on guaranteed or minimum service was introduced on August 25, 2017. It was adopted on 28 October 2017 in committee and 16 November 2017 in plenary. And here we are now in practice. I will then turn to the effectiveness aspect. Yet what had not been heard in committee and plenary? The red breakers had expressed themselves on the accidents that would occur, on the impossibility of organizing the service, on the commuters who were going to rush. We had even seen on television practical exercises showing false commuters returning with great difficulty to the trains. It had also been mentioned that morning trips would not be followed by evening trips. All this has been said by your colleague, Mrs Grovonius.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u66	I'll tell Mrs. Grovonius. It's the bottom of the basket!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u67	It is not nice for your colleague to say that about her.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u68	I'm talking about you!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u69	I repeat what she said texting. And, icing on the cake, the guaranteed or minimum service would break the right to strike or break the railroads, according to the PTB. My arms are falling! Without caricature, according to these birds of bad augurs, in fact we were going to find ourselves in a situation as serious as that of the bombings on London during the Blitzkrieg of 1940. Well, no! Everything's going right!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u70	Your question!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u71	The trains are rolling.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u72	Your question, Mr. Flahaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u73	The system works, and it bothers you. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u74	Come on, ask your question! [[Brouhahaha]] Let Mr. Flahaux speak! What is this! [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u75	You interrupted him. So he can't ask his question. He'll do it if everyone shuts up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u76	Beyond the congratulations to the Minister, I would like to ask him what his conclusions are. Minister, can you inform us of the first assessment to be made of the guaranteed service? Can this be further improved? Finally, I would like to know if there have been any failures in the procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u77	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u78	You're not interested, obviously... Some had announced that the right to strike would be violated. But I didn't notice anything like that. Last night, I took the train. All passengers travelling to the Dour festival were very happy that the trains were travelling.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u79	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, the Guaranteed Service Act, which provides for the continuity of rail service in the event of a strike, has been tested twice. The main objective, I would point out, is to allow passengers to know in advance the situation of the rail and to organise themselves accordingly, according to the transport offer possible on the days of strike announced. As required by law, the trains were operated according to an adapted transportation plan, which was announced to the passengers twenty-four hours before. The first notice had been filed by the socialist unions and related to the difficult trades file. The second trade union action was carried out by the independent SIC union and supported by SAC and METISP Protect and concerned the plan to upgrade the train driver function. I can provide you with the following information about the strike of 29 and 30 June. On Friday, 40 per cent of the trains were in normal traffic. On Saturdays, 50% of them rolled. With regard to the strike on 10 and 11 July, the SNCB tells me that it has operated one train in three. On Infrabel's side, all signal booths remained operational. This means that it has been able to guarantee rail operators traffic. By the way, all freight trains were able to drive. Numerous testimonies indicate that the proposed service is a concrete alternative for those who have no choice but to take the train on a strike day. Overall, the returns of commuters and their associations were positive. It was an idea we've been talking about for a long time. Already when I was a Member of Parliament, I had tried, along with others, to make such a proposal. Today, as a minister, with this government, I am pleased that I have been able to pass this legislation. Moreover, while some in this assembly reported chaos, this was not the case. The situation is better than in the past, when it was impossible to know which train would operate during the strike. I wanted to favour a balanced approach between the right to strike and the right to move and the continuity of service. The traveller, the worker, the student, the commuter must remain at the centre of our concerns. The guaranteed rail service exists in different forms throughout Europe. Today, thanks to this government, this is also the case in Belgium. The device has shown its effectiveness.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u80	Minister, as you yourself pointed out, it has been a priority for our party, the MR, for many years. Unfortunately, conservative parties prevented us from implementing it. She is now. Mr Burton and Mr Foret, my two colleagues from the MR, and myself, have fought for the adoption of this text, for a balance between freedom of movement and the right to strike. We have achieved this, and I am very pleased with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u81	Mr. Secretary, becoming a mom is actually the most beautiful thing there is. I think all the mommies here can vouch for that. The first few weeks with the baby should be carefree. Unfortunately, that is not the case for all moms today. Self-employed moms have to work extra hard. This government has already made sure that the maternity leave they were given in the past, 8 weeks, has now been increased to 12 weeks. This has almost bridged the gap with the 15 weeks of labourers and civil servants who have given birth. However, self-employed moms get their benefits very often only after 3 months. At least with some health insurance funds. It was a Studio Brussels hostess who was ringing the bell this week. Legally, that period is not wrong, Minister, but it feels unacceptable. That allowance should be available at least every month in the Mommy's account. Mommies with a newborn baby in their arms should not be concerned with their financial situation. My question to you is very simple, Minister. Are you willing to change the royal decision in this sense so that Mommy's can enjoy their baby carefree?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u82	Mrs Lijnen, as you know, this government has made great efforts in this legislature to support the self-employed. For example, an amount of EUR 1.5 billion was invested in their social status. These efforts have made it possible to eliminate some differences between the social rights of self-employed workers and those of other categories of workers. For example, we have extended the maternity leave of female self-employed workers to 12 weeks. We must continue to correct the inequalities of the past that still affect our self-employed people. Today, the benefit of female workers is paid every month during their maternity leave. The self-employed women must wait 4 months. That's not normal. That's not fair. That is why my colleague Maggie De Block and I are currently working on a draft royal decree that will ensure that independent mothers can also be paid every month. I have established that you agree with us and I thank you for your support. I also know that, like us, you are very attentive to the needs of the self-employed, both for women and men. Mrs Lijnen, I hope you will also support my approach to paternity leave for the self-employed. In turn, this measure will eliminate a difference facing independent fathers to this day.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u83	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We will be delighted to accept your outstretched hand, because fathers also have an important contribution to make today in family life. Equality between men and women is very important to our party. That is what we will promote. We also want to encourage entrepreneurship. The combination of family life and entrepreneurship is facilitated by you, together with Minister De Block and your other fellow ministers, so we support that. We also believe that it should be possible, in the long term, to grant such rights automatically, without the need for a large administration. Technology will help us in this and I ask for your help in achieving this for the self-employed and in a broad sense for everyone who is entitled to social rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u84	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u85	On 1 July, Marcel Decoster, a former member of the Chamber of Representatives, died in Torhout, at the age of 91. Marcel Decoster was a PVV senator for the Arrondissement of Veurne-Diksmuide Oostende from December 1978 to September 1985 and MP from October 1985 to November 1991. He was mayor of Vladslo from 1971 to 1976 and member of the provincial council of West Flanders from 1974 to 1978. In the name of the Chamber of Representatives, I have offered my sincere condolences to his wife and his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u86	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Dedry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u87	Mr President, I refer to the written report. I would like to make a few comments and explain our voting behaviour. Madam Minister, you had the support of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance for the principle of low-variable care. Standardizing the low variable care is good for various reasons. It will increase transparency in hospital funding, it should promote multidisciplinary cooperation and it should be budget-neutral. The introduction of a global prospective amount per hospitalisation is therefore a first cautious step in the necessary reform of hospital funding. Then I come to my critical edge remarks. This is a very cautious and very modest step. It will be only 9% of hospital facilities for 54 pathologies and only 10% of hospital funding if everything goes as it pleases. In other countries we are further on. I think you should have shown a little more ambition and raised the bar. An important criticism of this draft is that you are dealing with funding here, when we only know the broad lines of the content and not the whole content. You do delegate a great deal to the King, including in Articles 5 and 6, where the detailed rules are laid down for the inclusion of the budget of the financial resources in this global prospective amount. It also concerns the establishment of the list of patient groups. The argument that you are using is that you will be able to take into account the evolution of medical practice more quickly, but this can also result in a minimalist, inhibiting interpretation. Finally, I would like to express some reservations and concerns about the field of work. There is still a lot of uncertainty about low variable childbirth care and one is asking to provide a separate code for the baby absolutely in case of complications. A second concern is that this is a major change and that there are no additional resources to support this logistics and administrative support in hospitals. The main concern is that the explanatory statement we have heard at the moment has been calculated on the basis of figures from 2014. However, the results should first be looked at, at least with the 2016 figures and hopefully from 2017. After all, there is no guarantee that a low variable health care funding will land in 2019, based on the 2014 figures. That would be a long way from reality. For all these reasons, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will abstain from the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u88	Minister, the reform of hospital funding is essential – there is no doubt – for the sustainability of our system, its quality, efficiency and accessibility for the benefit of all patients, but also for a fair distribution of the resources available between the various hospitals and the various hospital stakeholders. For our group, this reform of hospital funding is intimately linked to other important reforms, such as those of the hospital landscape and networks, those of the healthcare professions and those of the nomenclature. The text before us today is therefore, in our view, only a first small element of this far-reaching reform, which is proudly announced in your government agreement but which is difficult to achieve. We do not dispute the difficulty and complexity of the manoeuvre. We regret, however, the lack of a global vision on this very important issue! It is therefore difficult to say when you have only one small piece of the puzzle in front of you, you will agree. With this text, you regulate the financing of care with low variability. This is the simplest part, let us say, since it concerns the treatment of treatments that differ little between patients and between hospitals. Funding for medium- and high-variability care will therefore remain to be addressed. What is the term? It's not like there's nothing in it. For many years, there has been a well-known system of reference amounts. This leads to reimbursement of hospitals when they exceed the national average for a series of care also with low variability. Reimbursement takes place only a posteriori and therefore results in some budgetary unpredictability for hospitals. With the new future-oriented global admission amounts that you are putting in place, there are more reimbursements for hospitals that will know what they will receive for a particular benefit from the outset. This is a small step forward since hospitals will be able to have better control of their budget. That said, this will continue to be a step forward in the long term since, for a fairly long transitional period, hospitals will see both systems co-exist and will therefore continue to repay if the reference amounts are exceeded. You will understand that in terms of simplification, it is not won. In any event, minister, we have been talking about this lump sum funding for a long time. As such, we could fully accept and even support this idea. But your text only sets out this principle and nothing else. All practical arrangements are systematically referred to the King. This project does look like an empty shell. Despite the many questions asked in committee and the answers given, it continues to raise many concerns and questions for our group. No details, for example, on the patient groups involved in these packages. Of course, we have learned that the amounts currently covered by the reference amounts will not be the same as those covered by the new forward-looking global amounts. Beyond that, it remains very vague. We have very few concrete examples and no projections available. Nor are there any details of the various elements that will be included in the package or that are or could be excluded from the package. Many health care professionals have expressed concern in this regard. I am thinking of some pediatricians or clinician biologists who fear under-consumption. According to them, some additional examinations could be avoided in order to fit into the specific budgets; this, of course, to the detriment of the quality of care for patients, which is finally very little discussed in this text. We deplore him. In line with what I have just said, we also have no information on the real financial impact of this new system on hospitals and patients. You were talking about stability, but in our discussions you ended up saying that, in reality, it prevented over-consumption in some hospitals and that it could not therefore be regarded as an economy. Comprehensive who can. But you will allow me to have doubts about the real stakes of this reform part. The aim of the reform of hospital funding was to improve the functioning of the system, to ensure fairer funding for hospitals, through greater transparency. KCE itself felt in 2015 that the readability of the system is also an aspect that should not be overlooked if we want it to receive sufficient support on the ground. Madam Minister, as already said in committee, for our group, we are really not there. For this reason, we will not support this text today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u89	Madam Minister, it has been difficult to tackle the complex reform of hospital funding. One of the projects that has received your attention and why you are now submitting a draft law concerns low-variable care. You deserve my personal respect and that of our group for the long and patient work in this area. In 2015, when you launched your plans, we pointed out a number of possible cliffs, namely the bundled payments and supplemental issues. We realize that they have not been completely eliminated, but it is a start and you deserve at least a plume. Moreover, the debate on bundled payments is certainly not closed. It is not easy to put a bag of money on the table and some of the players think they should get a piece of it. That can generate quite a bit of negative energy. At the moment, the final details have not yet been worked out, but we look forward to the follow-up. Another problem that you clearly want to solve is that of supplements. The issue is very close to our party, especially because we, as a regional party, identify important regional differences. After all, it is less of a Flemish or a Brussels and Walloon problem. The draft law before us offers a solution and you deserve our appreciation and support for it. I hear a few critical remarks from colleagues, for example that this is only 10% of hospital funding. However, you did get an important door open today. I also hear the concern that there would be too little concern, but I do not think that Belgium is a country of too little concern. In many areas, Belgium is rather a country of too much concern, and the cheese-shave, which has been used for many years, has certainly not done any good. There are many lice in the fur of the reform of hospital funding. Fortunately, you have a thick skin and an elephant patience. I wish you every success at the long quest, which you are still waiting for. We will support you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u90	Mr. Speaker, Minister, the bill before us is a first step in the approach plan for reforming hospital funding. It concerns, as has already been said, the so-called care of low variability. The aim is for interventions that have become standard, i.e. for which there is little variation, to be reimbursed by the public authorities in the same way throughout our country. The new system therefore presents a substantial difference from the current system, since it becomes forward-looking rather than retrospective. Caregivers will now know in advance the total amount of fees that will be charged and the patient will know in advance what to pay. This also allows providers to adapt and move closer to the median practice of national medical care. Such an evolution requires time to adapt. The project was the subject of a series of reactions, but there was also a lot of consultation, adaptation and maturation. Madam Minister, we will have to be vigilant and react if we perceive, at some point, difficulties, whether technical or computer, but I have no doubt that this will indeed be the case. It is a framework bill and therefore many decrees, which will be the subject of consultation with the actors, will have to be taken. The reform has several positive aspects: to increase transparency for providers, for the hospital, but also for patients; to remove inexplicable cost differences and to identify the respective remuneration of the various providers, as clearly requested by the medical profession. Our country is now joining policies that have been implemented for a number of years in other European countries. We will support this bill by asking you, minister, to be attentive to its implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u91	Mr President, Madam Minister, as far as hospital funding reform is concerned, I believe that three things should be guaranteed: firstly, quality and excellence; secondly, transparency, security and financial stability for both hospitals and patients; and thirdly, partnership and collaboration on front and post hospital issues. Does your project guarantee quality and excellence? No! For me, this is an original mistake, since you decided to use existing funding to calculate the future-oriented global amount on media amounts. In my view, a median amount does not necessarily guarantee the quality of care. You should have proceeded in a completely different way, that is, turning to evidence based medicine. You often talk about it, but you only apply it when it suits you! What about transparency, stability and financial security for hospitals and patients? On transparency, and that's quite enlightening, you are developing a law that refers everything to the King. Everything! At this stage, therefore, transparency is zero! While the reform avoids certain waste, there is no mechanism in the law to ensure that these resources remain in hospitals, even though other projects - and above all, even more important, that a stable multi-year framework be guaranteed - have been the subject of repeated savings in recent years, the impact of which is quite negligible, not only on the healthcare staff but also on the patient. I have always said, in the chapter "Transparency, stability and financial security", that your formula, seen today through the possible plans of royal decrees or through lists of patients, of which you cannot tell us but who have been sent to hospitals, seems to be a real gas factory. And we are once again wondering how we can, in a clear and stable way, with financial security for hospitals and patients, obtain sufficient guarantees. In my opinion, that is not the case! On the other hand, you did not make any projections, modelling, simulations to ensure that hospitals would not be directly penalized. On the contrary, with your reform today, we are already able to translate the fact that some hospitals - all concerned by structural underfunding - will find themselves in great financial difficulty and will have to provide for substantial repayments to INAMI in the years to come. Clearly, we can already see today the major difficulties that will affect several hospitals. The "Transparency and financial security/financial stability" component is also a problem, since your project risks in-house hospitals leading to intensely tense discussions between the manager and the doctors as well as between the major specialties themselves, which is all the more delicate. Indeed, while your reform should have been coordinated with the nomenclature reform, you did not take it into account at all. This also applies to the reform of Royal Decree 78. Finally, it was, in my view, fundamental to work in a logic of partnership and collaboration on the front and after hospital. Again, it is not! However, I had previously proposed different avenues, since we have been discussing this reform of hospital funding for some time now. You left the door open, but all this was royally left out. Finally, this reform should have been linked with the reform on networks, including funding, a crucial issue in networking. Again, there is no consultation or coordination in this area. For all these reasons, I think this is a missed opportunity. Many uncertainties remain. The choices made are absolutely unclear, in any case today. We'll see what happens to the royal decrees you're going to have to draw up. Minister, the least we can say is that where I expected you – on quality, excellence, transparency, security, financial stability and pre- and post-hospital work – I can't find these major issues in your bill. For this reason, we will vote against.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u92	Mr. Speaker, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, we were looking forward to this bill. According to the ecologists' vision of hospital care funding, in the organization they are considering, proposing and advocating, the lump-sum payment of benefits for pathologies and patient groups is really important. It allows for transparency, objectivation, and should help to avoid over-consumption of acts, in particular acts in general which are the most expensive or best reimbursed by INAMI, without necessarily being more costly than they seem, or the most necessary acts. This lump sum funding, starting with groups of patients receiving low variability care, met one of our expectations. That is why in committee, as well as today, we express our disappointment at the way this bill is drafted. We are also disappointed that, after discussing it, we do not have access to the elements that would allow us to understand and verify the relevance of the elements included in this package. We have waited until now for this bill to succeed. Since we had waited until now, nothing prevented us from waiting another month or two, until the Insurance Committee had validated all the elements. Indeed, you tell us that, in relation to the benefits and the different disciplines of caregivers, different elements are still in concert. At least, at the level of the Committee on Public Health, we would like to know exactly what we are talking about. We share your goal and support starting with groups of patients receiving low variability care. But, of course, we cannot decide what this really will represent in fact. We can do it all the less because elements are missing. It would also have been interesting to wait for them, as well as those who are lacking in other legislation, to come and present us with a coherent whole. Among these elements necessary to verify the accuracy, transparency and applicability of this type of funding, we stress the revision of the method of calculating the nomenclature and remuneration of the provider of care. In your bill, only the benefits of the various stakeholders are involved. They will, as they usually do, distribute the money of the envelope among themselves, between disciplines and between specializations. It is known that difficult power relations exist within hospitals. It is known that some specializations receive excessive remuneration while others receive too low remuneration. It'll stay. In our view, the dimension of regulation and fair and equitable distribution among providers should be part of this bill. In this way, it could have worked properly. In the same way, you continue to allow supplements that, of course, you limit to 115%, but these are also possibilities that are not necessarily justified or justifiable. It's the same for patient groups. You tell us that, in order to define them, consultations are under way in the Insurance Committee and you refuse to give us a list. You were not necessarily asked to release this list, but at least you could allow us to read it and explain to us the reasons for these 57 groups. You gave us some examples. You did not tell us what the different identification factors on which this distribution and group identification is based meant. You told us that it was logical, and that we should know as parliamentarians, to first pass a law before its orders. We know that. We're not stupid! At the same time, when a law is composed solely of decrees, it makes sense for the parliamentarian to ask his minister to clarify what the decrees will contain to know what he is voting for. Finally, Madam Minister, there is still work to be done, particularly in the organisation of hospitals. This bill comes a little in isolation as we await a bill on network reform. It would also have been good to be able to have all these texts at the same time and to have a comprehensive view of the reforms under way to see how they are organised between them. A bill on continuity, quality and multidisciplinarity of care is also expected, which is a framework law linked to the reform of the health professions. Here too, we know that elements are ready. Here too, it would have been interesting to have all these texts in order to be able to work on them, think about them and adopt them as a coherent whole. This is a first step, you say it yourself. This is a first step which, in order to benefit from our positive vote, should have been accompanied by the content of the decrees and also by other provisions so that we know exactly what we were going to vote for. As my colleague Anne Dedry said, we really support this principle of lump-sum payments. We regret that it is not possible to know exactly what the scope of these measures is and how they will fit into more comprehensive reforms. That is why we will abstain from the vote proposed at this plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u93	Mr President, Minister, many health professionals have long been waiting for envelope funding. It is therefore a good thing that we can begin to do so, especially in order to combat over-consumption, to achieve greater transparency and efficiency, and thereby increase the resources available to fund hospitals. That's finality. I must tell you that the disappointment is great. The present regime is still very unclear and we feel that few bold choices have been made. It is really not clear to what extent increasing efficiency will provide more resources to better finance the operation of hospitals. We also have the impression that little is being done about the role and power of the doctors. That is precisely why there is a great deal of mistrust about the functioning of the system. How will envelope financing be distributed internally? Where will efficiency gains go? To the hospital or to the doctors, to work better? The supplements were not arranged either. There is transparency, but absolutely not about the supplements. As has just been said, there is also no list of the different treatments and their envelopes. What I fear most is this. Much time has been devoted to preparing the new way of working, but in fact too little has been invested in promoting the new regime, motivating people to deal with it, clarity and transparency. I fear that in the long term many actors will be disliked or very suspicious of change and of envelope financing in general. However, that is the only way we can follow, because making everything refundable and affordable for everyone and everywhere is an impossible task.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u94	Mr President, I would like to thank the members of the Health Committee, including for their speeches at committee meetings, and, of course, the rapporteur, Mrs Dedry. It has been said many times, but I want to repeat it, this is an important step. The approach was always planned in stages. This was also clearly explained on 28 April, when presenting the plan of approach with regard to the three yards of hospital funding. We really didn't go ice cream in one night. Studies have been requested from the Centre of Knowledge and there have been several consultations with all possible actors. We have therefore used a good methodology. As a result, it has taken longer, but while we originally only wanted to finish phase 1, two phases are now being combined. So that's what bought us time back. Mrs. Dedry, you asked what would happen if the baby was in trouble. The low variable care applies to a healthy mother who gives birth to a healthy baby. There is another difference as it happens with or without an epidural anesthesia. Well, that baby is, if necessary, hospitalized separately; that is still possible. You asked for extra resources. A one-off injection of €7 million will be made for hospitals to finance their changes in accounting, ICT and so on. We used the 2014 figures for the simulations. Of course, the 2016 figures are now in. That deadline is over and wasn't extended, unlike Tax-on-web today. The committee can therefore rely on these figures. It was also said that there will be an update every year. Mr Senesael, you regret the global vision. You are often present in committee and therefore know very well that we have a clear overall vision but that involves different bills. In addition to the funding of hospitals, we must also consider Royal Decree No. 78 and the nomenclature which is being revised for fee supplements in the medico-mut agreement. It is true that many royal decrees are required, but it is also because we have had the introduction of the law. So what is the real stake? For quality care, anywhere in the country, the patient must pay the same amounts. It's obvious, but it's new in our country. Yes, this will be interesting for the patient. Mr Vercammen, thank you for your support. The radical change in the financing of hospitals is indeed a titanic task. In a first step we introduce the low variable care. The supplements are a topic of discussion for the Medicomut, where I am aware that it will be quite a struggle, but the Medicomut is working on it. I believe that the various actors have responded to the concerns expressed. I understand that concern, because we are making real changes to improve the system. There are always people who prefer to keep everything as it exists. However, if we implement a reform without anyone saying anything about it, then it probably doesn't weigh heavily. Mr. Piedboeuf, the bill does have positive aspects for the players, but it will benefit the patients in particular. Mrs Fonck, you asked me three questions, to which you yourself answered. I obviously do not agree with you. First of all, the key to the distribution of the amount of the paying third party is clear and known in advance by each pathological group. This was not the case so far, since the reference amounts were only known after several years. Secondly, this system will encourage greater cooperation between the different doctors. It is indeed necessary that they come into contact regularly, for the greater benefit of the patient. In addition, the bill he will receive will be better understood. Pre- and post-hospital benefits are not yet included in the calculation of the amount. When you read the report, you may have found that further studies on the journey of patients before and after their stay in hospital are still needed. That is why the bill provides for a delegation to the King, so that he can complete the regulatory framework if the studies have to demonstrate the need for it. Mrs Gerkens, with regard to the question of the royal decrees, as chairman of the Committee on Public Health, and given your parliamentary experience, you know very well that the bill must first be voted on. As he still has to go before the Insurance Committee, it would be disrespectful if I now took the royal orders. A minister must respect such bodies. The bundled payment includes all fees. Several simulations have been carried out and are known to the field players. The calculation will be based on 2016 fees and indexation will be taken into account. As far as supplements are concerned, I have already answered. You say you will abstain. It's not very brave. Indeed, you have always said that you were waiting for funding reform and that a bundled payment was needed. Now that the bill is here, you are abstaining. That disappoints me. Mrs De Coninck, I have already indicated that the wage supplement is currently the debate in the Medicomut. The syndical elections for the doctors are, of course, oil on the fire. However, I am sure that everyone will accept their responsibilities. If, as I have said before, the pay supplements continue to rise, the doctors also know that they cut off the branch on which they sit. You've been asking about efficiency gains. They can, I hope, be used for the benefit of the patient, for example by placing more nursing staff with the patient again. However, the profits can be used differently by hospitals. It has been pointed out on several occasions that this is not a saving story. There is no saving amount on it. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the best care at the same price, regardless of where the patient is in our country, is a very good step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u95	Who's asking for the floor for a reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u96	Madam Minister, you find that we are not brave in not voting for a text that meets the direction and objective of a package. Recognize that when you read the text, you don't know what's really going to happen! Everything is still to be determined through royal decrees. The lack of courage is your lack of transparency for not waiting until, for example, the Insurance Committee has given its opinions – and you would be more comfortable presenting things to us – or for not having communicated to us the criteria that you submit to it, so that we know better what we are talking about. It is also a disappointment for us not to be able to vote for your project because we are not aware of all the elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u97	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u98	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3189/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3189/3) The draft law contains 17 articles. The bill has 17 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u99	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u100	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u101	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u102	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my group had supported, under the previous legislature, the creation of the BDL statute to rejuvenate the armed forces and restore a healthier age pyramid. In the meantime, the current majority has assessed this status with a view to adapting it, in particular to ease regulation at the end of the eight-year period, which is considered somewhat abrupt. The objective is therefore clearly to encourage the rejuvenation of our army. This objective is reflected in the strategic vision. In addition to those who wish to have a full military career, others prefer a more limited career (8 years) with now four times an additional year. This will allow the Defence to open its range of statutes to candidates who will be able to choose a career corresponding to their aspirations and to respond to the challenge of recruiting soldiers that our army desperately needs. This point has been sufficiently discussed in committee. I will discuss this during the discussion of the second bill on the framework of the reserve, which is quite dear to me. Here I would like to thank the minister who is looking for and is testing different avenues to attract new candidates to his department. His successor will also face the same difficulty. It will be necessary to accompany the member who, upon completion of his contract, legitimately wishes to leave National Defence. Like what is happening in the private sector, this is about the outsourcing principle. This is a new element that needs to be drawn to attention. As you pointed out in committee, Minister, the measures contained in this bill will optimize the performance of the BDL member, who will also have access to functions that can evolve, while, of course, maintaining the necessary skills of National Defence at a high level. The military will be able, through this bill, to improve its possibilities for reintegration into the civilian sector. With regard to this last point, I welcome the fact that the maximum reclassification bonus is increased from 12 to 14 months and that the BDL member who has completed 84 months of active service will have the opportunity to benefit from a personalized vocational retraining programme. Honourable senators, these are the reasons why we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u103	The limited term contract is a statute with which we try to attract young people for Defence. Last year the possibility was offered to extend that contract for 8 years to a maximum of 12 years of service. However, we must ensure that the Statute continues to serve the same purpose, namely to attract young people by offering short-term careers. There is a danger that the BDL Statute will become more and more the rule. In practice, however, recruitment in this statute is not working at all well. The number of vacancies will be filled out with difficulty. With the design, the parole fee is adjusted, but this does not happen with the same coefficient as during the first 8 years. I think it makes more sense to do so. Anyone who remains useful to the Defense after 8 years can stay one, two, three or four years longer. In this case, the premium that is being proposed does not offer sufficient benefits and security. In order to meet this, our group has tabled two amendments. Unfortunately, they were rejected by the majority in committee. For this reason, we wish to abstain from voting on the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u104	Mr President, I believe that we have already dealt with these questions in committee. In connection with recruitment, there are always complaints that there are difficulties in attracting young people and that the framework is not being filled in. Mr Top, I would like to remind you that today we received as many applications as we received last year. I propose to you, Mr Top, that you do not continue to give false information, which no one is served by. We all say that we need a young army and we must be able to attract young and enthusiastic people; we all agree on that. At the same time, we do not stop complaining about how bad everything is. Well, the facts prove otherwise. I therefore propose, Mr Top, that I ask a written question on recruitment rates. This way I can provide you with the right information on paper, in black and white, after which you will also be able to communicate correctly. In the past, we have seen that it may happen to your party that you obtain information that does not exactly correspond to reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u105	Minister, it is not just about applications, but also about the career, about success and about the military who remain in service. It would be a good idea to conduct the discussion on the basis of all the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u106	I would like to refer again to what I also explained in committee. Our intention is precisely to give soldiers a chance to parole at the Defense Department in order to connect to a new career after Defense. The draft law also gives them the possibility of social promotion after a number of years, which I strongly support, for example by abolishing age conditions. In this way, those who join the army as volunteers can become a petty officer by means of social promotion and thus develop a career in which they can live. Let us be honest, the army needs young soldiers; the army needs soldiers who are involved in Defence; we also need to find a balance so that we keep the knowledge we have acquired in house. These are all very important aspects. The rule is indeed that we start from a short career. If so, they may be renewed, either at the request of the person concerned or at the request of the Defence Department as an employer, in order to ensure continuity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u107	This is my last word, otherwise we will repeat the discussion from the committee. I would like to say once again that the underlying idea of the design is good for us. However, we have tabled two amendments in order to respond to our concern that the proposed amendments will have sufficient content and that the military will indeed request an extension. That is why, first of all, we want to increase the parole premium by the same coefficient as applied during the first 8 years. Our second amendment aims to allow, instead of an extension of one year each year, the possibility of an extension in one block to four years. It is a pity that the amendments were not adopted, otherwise the text would certainly have been supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u108	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u109	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3124/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3224/4) The draft law has 20 articles. The bill has 20 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u110	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u111	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Buysrogge, who refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u112	Mr President, Mr President, I am particularly interested in this subject and, in the debates on this draft in committee, we have seen your interest and your willingness to deal with what is at stake today, including that of the various political groups, which I also welcome. We know that the Defence Staff is exploring the possibility of making the reserve member's status attractive. As far as we are concerned - which is why I wanted to speak today - we held a hearing in June, for a day, bringing together a broad panel of specialists in the context of the discussion of my motion for a resolution (document No 2683) concerning the development and modernisation of the reserve framework of the armed forces. I propose that each of my colleagues in the committee co-sign it. The hearing revealed that reserve members felt the need to be recognized and to receive status equivalent to that of the active cadre. That will have to be taken into account. There was evidence to suggest that we should engage in discussions with employers who tend not to always leave reserve members on standby for reasons of their own. This is a question of information that must be provided to them. The concerns of the private sector should be taken into account and efforts should be made to create a more positive culture or image of the reserve, as can be seen in neighbouring countries where there is a recognized reservist status. Minister, in my view, reservists are a vehicle for bringing the army closer to the nation. They promote national cohesion, an important element that must be emphasized on the eve of our national holiday. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a dossier on which we can still work together in perfect intelligence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u113	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Thiéry for the work he has already done on reserves. This could help us to have soldiers, non-commissioned officers and officers who are flexible and have specific skills that are useful to Defence. The purpose of this legislation is to eliminate some of the current problems that prevent some interested parties from providing us with their services. That is why I thank Mr Thiéry and the rest of the committee for their work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u114	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u115	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3125/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3125/3) The title was amended by the Committee in draft law amending various provisions relating to the status of the military in the reserve framework of the Armed Forces." The title has been amended by the Commission into a bill amending various provisions relating to the status of military personnel in the Reserve Framework of the Armed Forces." The draft law has 82 articles. The bill has 82 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u116	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u117	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Christoph D'Haese, Brecht Vermeulen, Katja Gabriels, Egbert Lachaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u118	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u119	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u120	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u121	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3084/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3084/6) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u122	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u123	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Veli Yüksel.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u124	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu is the rapporteur and refers to the written report. I give the floor to the author of the legislative proposal, Mr Yüksel.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u125	Mr President, since this is an important issue, I would like to say a few things. The present bill is part of the fight against parental child abductions, abductions by parents. Figures from Child Focus show that there were 390 cases of child abductions in 2016. In addition, an increase can be observed year after year. In 2017, the foundation dealt with 10% more files than the year before. Within the European Union, there are around 1 800 cases of child abductions every year. The holiday period is at hand and it is particularly during this period that we are faced with such cases, where one of the parents takes the child abroad and never returns. The contact between the child and the other parent is broken and in many cases the parent never sees the child again. This creates distressing situations. Parental child abductions occur mainly within the European Union France remains the frontrunner in this respect, but also outside the EU Member States. In such cases, it is sometimes a long and very complex procedure to bring the child back to Belgium and in many cases it never even succeeds. Over the last few days and weeks, a lot of people have contacted me and described their situation. Often these are very poignant situations. The bill provides for a number of changes. Very concrete work is being done on the delivery and/or invalidation of the child's identity cards. For example, the amendment of Article 374/1 of the Civil Code will allow the family court to impose travel restrictions on that child in the event of serious fear of parental child abduction by intervening on Belgian passports, travel documents and identity cards. This can be done by preventing the distribution or preventing the usability of documents and identity cards already delivered by declaring them invalid and withdrawing them, in particular passports, travel documents for non-calls, and also by signaling them in the central file of the identity cards. The measure provided for in Article 374/1 (1) does not, of course, apply to the issue of identity cards for minors over 12 years of age, as these identity cards must be issued under the legislation on the basis of registration in the population register. Whether or not a parent expressly agrees with this is therefore not applicable. However, the validity of that identity card may be limited to the territory of Belgium, as provided for in paragraph 2. After a judge's decision, in particular the family judge, the Registrar will deliver the decision to the municipality where the child is registered, to the Home Office and also to the Foreign Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to stress that it is not intended that a one-sided or unforeseen response from a parent should jeopardise the travel plans of the other parent with the child or the travel plans of the child alone. It is up to the family court to decide whether the objection of one of the parents in question is justified. There must therefore be a serious fear before a minor is admitted to travel abroad. Mr President, I think I have explained the substance of the legislative proposal. We held a very constructive discussion in committee. I hope that the vote will be very constructive in the near future and that all the groups will support this proposal so that the kidnapping of children by parents can be removed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the text before us this afternoon responds to a unfortunately frequent situation, namely the abduction of a child unlawfully taken abroad by one of his two parents. If we cannot do much to prevent the deterioration of human relations to the point where one of the parents wants to have exclusive custody of the children as he pleases, and illegitimately – I recall – we can, however, and we must do everything in our power to prevent this intention from being realized. I think it is important to recall that this type of abuse, committed by one of the parents, does not limit its disastrous effects to children and the other parent. It also extends to the entourage of the child: his friends, classmates, neighbours, grandparents; this not to mention the violation of the values of our rule of law and the judicial decisions that constitute such acts. I will not go back to the details of the proposal, since my colleague Mr Yüksel has just done so. For the MR Group, we are pleased that the new law allows the competent authorities to intervene either on the passport, on the travel document, on the Belgian identity card of the minor child, or in a preventive manner by refusing to issue the document, but also in a curative manner, by allowing the family court to order the invalidation and withdrawal of the passport or travel document or to limit the validity of the Belgian identity document. For us, it is a balanced text, which is feasible in practice and which finally reaffirms two obvious points. First, the right of both parents to the upbringing of their children and the right of the child himself not to be merely an instrument of the abusive will of one of his or her parents. Secondly, the importance of respect for the substance of decisions taken by courts and tribunals, particularly with regard to family matters. Therefore, for us, this text is welcome. Thank you! We supported it in committee, as amended. We will therefore support him in plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u127	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u128	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1234/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1234/5) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending various provisions relating to an exit ban, the delivery, invalidation and withdrawal of travel documents and identity documents for unaccompanied minors." The title has been amended by the committee to propose a law amending various provisions relating to a ban on leaving the territory, the issue, invalidation and withdrawal of travel documents and identity documents for non-emancipated minors." The bill has 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u129	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u130	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, rapporteur, referred to his written report. The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u131	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3153/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3153/3) The draft law has 36 articles. The bill has 36 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u132	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u133	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 July 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Vincent Van Quickenborne, Mr David Clarinval, Mr Wim Van der Donkt and Mr Stefaan Vercamer) amending the law of... on the economic revival and strengthening of social cohesion and the Code of Income Tax 1992, No. 3223/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u134	- the bill (Mrs Inez De Coninck, Mr David Clarinval, Servais Verherstraeten and Patrick Dewael) amending the law of 22 May 2014 on the transfer by the Federal Planning Bureau of the electoral programme of political parties to the election of the Chamber of Representatives, No. 3227/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u135	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Vincent Van Peteghem cs) on a reduced VAT rate on infrastructure works, No. 3228/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u136	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 July 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (MM. Vincent Van Quickenborne, David Clarinval, Wim Van der Donckt and Stefaan Vercamer) amending the Law of... on Economic Recovery and Strengthening Social Cohesion and the Income Tax Code 1992, No. 3223/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u137	- the bill (Ms. Inez De Coninck, MM. David Clarinval, Servais Verherstraeten and Patrick Dewael) amending the Act of 22 May 2014 on the costing by the Federal Office of the Plan of Electoral Programmes presented by political parties during the election for the House of Representatives, No. 3227/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u138	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Vincent Van Peteghem et al.) on a reduction in the rate of VAT on infrastructure works, No 3228/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u139	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u140	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 3220, tabled by Mrs Wouters and myself. It's about the language laws in court cases. The 1935 language law was a monument. It was probably one of the very best of language laws. On 17 May this was modified here. If I have to believe some members of the majority, it seems to have been mistaken. As a result, that language law is no longer of public order. The court can therefore no longer invoke the infringement of this language law of its own motion. Moreover, it is necessary to prove an interest loss in order to obtain an annulment on the basis of this language law. It is therefore a monument, which is transformed into a monumental decline. So it is not a Community stand, ladies and gentlemen, but a huge decline. It is a pity that such a thing happens in times of Community silence. Yesterday, on 11 July, I heard Prime Minister Bourgeois say that speaking Dutch is an assignment or duty for everyone living in Flanders. Well, I'm even finding now that subpoenas in Dutch don't actually have to be done anymore. After all, there are all kinds of tricks to do this in a different way from now on. Subpoenas in another language, in French, is a disaster, especially for Flemish-Brabant, for the area of Halle-Vilvoorde, where there have been split courts since the sixth state reform, but where there are both French and Dutch-speaking courts. So now the French speakers from that area have been given the opportunity to subpoena in French. That was a concession which the French-speaking people did not obtain under the Di Rupo government. Only the voluntary appearance in French could then. I see Mr Verherstraeten nodding. Now you can also subpoena in French. So you have made a concession that the Flemish parties had still refused to accept in the sixth state reform. In the meantime, I've heard that they're trying to fix this. It is, of course, a pity that so much funding is given to study services and group staff and that they do not see it, know it or realise it, and that they approve it. I'd like to fix that. In fact, I have already read Mrs Van Vaerenbergh's statements in committee, which also says that we would best return to the old version of the language law in court cases. I fully agree with that and support it. Colleagues of the N-VA and CD&V, I would like to address you in particular: yesterday it was 11 July, yesterday you were allowed to sing the Flemish Lion. Four Flanders not only on July 11th, but also on July 12th and restore the famous camel you shot on May 17th. Fix it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u141	Mr President, when I hear these alarming words from Mr Vuye, I am particularly sorry that he has remained completely absent from the committee, that he has kept his mouth shut at the part-session and apparently did not see what terrible disaster was taking place here. His late reaction certainly does not impress my group and I catalog them while playing political games. We do not wish to participate in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u142	We shall now proceed to the vote on urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u143	These inquiries were developed in a public meeting of the Joint External Relations and National Defence Commissions on July 4, 2018. These interviews were held at the public meeting of the United Committees for External Relations and for the Defence of the Netherlands of 4 July 2018. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 273/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Dirk Van der Maelen; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Stéphane Crusnière; - a simple motion was tabled by Rita Bellens and Karolien Grosemans and MM. Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Richard Miller, Dirk Van Mechelen, Tim Vandenput et Veli Yüksel. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 273/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by the Dirk Van der Maelen; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Stéphane Crusnière; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Rita Bellens and Mrs Karolien Grosemans and Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Richard Miller, Dirk Van Mechelen, Tim Vandenput and Veli Yüksel. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u144	Mr President, I would like to ask colleagues, especially the majority, not to approve the simple motion. Our reasoned motion makes two proposals, of which each Member has no choice but to approve them. The first proposal is that we want an objectification of the research of the three slopes, by the appointment of independent experts, for example foreign experts. Secondly, in view of the importance of the dossier, after the detailed investigation promised by the Prime Minister, we ask the government to examine the results of the investigations with the Chamber before taking a decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u145	Mr President, it is true that, as part of the presentation of the issues at the NATO summit that ends today, a debate took place in the debate, again on the procedure for the renewal of our combat air fleet. The Prime Minister recalled the various stages of the procedure and addressed the issue of the extension of the F-16s – until 2029 for the last F-16s. For the rest, an expert report collates all the arguments. As you know, Belgium has opened a transparent public market for which five state agencies have submitted offers. Three withdrew. For the time being, the remaining two offers are considered in the utmost discretion by some 30 experts. The document was also the subject of an opinion of the Finance Inspectorate. One of the offers should come out winning. On the other hand, the French have voluntarily exited the public market. They made an offer. The Prime Minister is still studying how to take the French proposal into account legally, with a sufficient legal basis, without any ambiguity, in particular by taking into account the status of confidentiality clauses. Finally, the government has a report on societal returns. These are the five documents that are on the government table. The last phase concerns him. A decision should be made. Should it be before the NATO summit? This idea circulated but was not based on any legal basis. Should it intervene in October? This could be assumed since the U.S. offer is valid until that date. Is this binding on Belgium? No. Therefore, our group has full confidence in the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence to ensure that all the legal elements of this issue are respected, that all political, military and economic elements are taken into account. Therefore, the motions are irrelevant to us, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u146	Mr President, I will be very brief. Everything Mr. Miller just said is true. What is unfortunate is that all the Prime Minister said was the opposite of what the Minister of Defence had told us in committee the previous week!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u147	Mr President, I hear a lot of words in the mouth of my honourable colleague Richard Miller and, on several occasions, the terms legal arguments, legalism, etc. In fact, everyone knows that the decision is political. There is a summit that has demonstrated how disdainful and arrogant and brutal the American President is today. Above all, it has become difficult to trust the very issue of security alliances. He is waging an unprecedented trade war as few other countries have done. I am really asking whether Belgium is about to make the choice of buying an airplane from a power that imposes such competition and a commercial war on us and which is so contemptuous to us. Mr Miller, this is the question for Belgium today!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u148	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u149	Yes 79 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 138 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u150	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 79 Yes No. 31 No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3189/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3189/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u151	Mr. President, I have been with Mr. Bart De Wever.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u152	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u153	Mr President, as in committee, my group will abstain. This bill on the military career for a limited period of time (BDL) is making a number of improvements. However, through this vote, we wish to denounce the government's decision to commit all volunteers, some non-commissioned officers and a few officers under this fixed-term status. The noble objective of the strategic vision of a rejuvenated army cannot under any circumstances be achieved on the backs of the military, whose special status derives quite logically from their regal function, which is itself particular. In our view, the total end to employment stability for new soldiers is not the response to the attrition of the Defence. The four additional years provided for here are therefore a form of wealth to hide a loss of expertise that is automatically involved in the systematic use of this fixed-term status. This project is a missed new opportunity to offer those who wish a transition to the normal career environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u154	Thank you, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 88 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 50 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3124/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3124/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u155	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3125/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3125/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u156	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 103 Yes No. [[8]] No Abstentions 27 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3084/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3084/7) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u157	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1234/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1234/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u158	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3153/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3153/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-12-54-plenair-ip239x.u159	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's meetings. We need to approve the agenda for next week's sittings. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Tuesday 17 July 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Tuesday, 17 July 2018, at 2.15 p.m.
