ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u1	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say at the outset that our timing is quite tight. We will conclude our work at 2:00 p.m. on the understanding that the Infrastructure Committee will invest the premises this afternoon. I invite members who have tabled several questions to put them in a row, so that we do not have to give the floor several times to the same person. I would add that groups that did not write a question will be able to speak if they wish. Mr. Nollet, you are the first speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u2	Mr President, are we going to pretend that this is just a little Question Time? For weeks now, we have been promised an exchange of views with the Minister. Everyone expects the Minister to clarify the Energy Pact today. Now we're gonna deal with that here as some kind of classic Question Time. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u3	Mr Calvo, the agenda provides for a topical debate with ministers, based on questions put by parliamentarians. This does not prevent the Minister from taking into account the content of the studies in her responses.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u4	Mr President, the minister is doing everything to sabotage the debate! It has already been postponed for weeks, and now we are only asking oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u5	The questions will in any case address the content. We were informed by the experts who presented their work, who are part of the general subject matter of the dossier. Everyone can use what they heard this morning in the exchange we will have with the minister. Whether she speaks before or after, we expect her to give us her vision of the file, both based on the studies but also on the questions posed by each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u6	Mr President, Madam Minister, what are you going to do with all the information collected? You have everything in hand: studies and their complements. The government policy statement invited you to set up an energy pact by December 2015, since 2015 was the reference point. It's March 2018. What's your timing? What is the main conclusion you draw from all these studies that you have commissioned? When and how are you going to propose concretely to get out of the current impasse? It is not by assaulting your parliamentary colleagues, including those of the majority, that you will succeed. But everyone has his technique: this can be your choice. Today, by answering the various questions, you should clearly state your intention, your timetable and your position in relation to the current blockage within your majority. I would like you to assume your political responsibilities today. Are you going to decouple the timetable for setting up the CRM mechanism - I use the generic term - to quickly finalize the Energy Pact and finally progress on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u7	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, we really have the impression that this more than sensitive issue is being handled in the most disorderly way. That's really disturbing. I met Mr. Lachaert who left earlier and said, "I don't ask smart questions anyway, so it's not worth me staying." I think there's a little tension in the majority. While I have understood the statements made by each one, Madam Minister, I note that the debate is only about the future of two reactors: Tihange 3 and Doel 4. On the one hand, Mr. Wollants, we know that the N-VA wants to extend these two reactors. On the other hand, all parties – although by hearing Mr Friart, I am still not convinced that the MR has a unanimous position on this issue – want to get out of nuclear power in 2025, as your government agreement provides. As Mr Vercruysse said this morning, it is no less one, but it seems that the deadline is almost already exceeded. Madam Minister, Professor Albrecht has said that leaving nuclear power would cost between 150 and 900 million euros a year. At worst, leaving nuclear power would cost only 900 million euros per year. Madam Minister, 900 million is a very large sum. But it must be put in perspective in the face of the nuclear cost and all the costs that have not been considered in this analysis. I asked a question that was not answered – but I did not want to prolong the debate. The cost of managing nuclear waste is now estimated at EUR 15.1 billion. I do not have the impression that this cost was taken into account in Mr Albrecht's study. Anyway, he didn't confirm it to me. Many press articles related the doubts related to the great unknown about the availability of nuclear supplies on D-Day. I do not think that has been taken into account. As I said, 900 million euros is a lot of money. But what would be the cost of a nuclear accident? It's about $500 billion for Fukushima, minister. At a time when the federal government is distributing iodine pellets, is it not intellectually sensible to consider the possibility of a nuclear disaster when evaluating scenarios? It should also be made clear, and this is a question I asked Mr Albrecht, that Doel and Tihange are not eternal. It will sooner or later be necessary to invest in gas and renewable energy. As he said in relation to the economic advantage of not getting out of nuclear power, it is not up to him to decide, it is a political decision that must be taken. What is clear is that extending the two reactors will not and will not save the consumer a single euro from a long-term perspective, but simply postpones the problem to future generations. Of course, it is also possible that nuclear power and the exit of nuclear power will have less impact on the consumer's bill. I say it and I repeat it since 2015, Madam Minister, the year in which this government increased VAT on electricity from 6 % to 21 %: every year, this increase in VAT costs 700 million euros. Seven hundred million euros to the consumer, Mr Wollants! So, if we actually deduct the 700 million out of the 900 million, there is only 200 million left of the cost of exiting nuclear energy, in any case as far as consumers are concerned. Reducing VAT is a government decision. If you really want to protect consumers, as is always your guideline, minister, a reduction in VAT can already be made. I will not be longer in these developments and my questions will be short. When we read Professor Albrecht's report – I also asked him the question – we do not find the extra cost of 15 euros per household that you announced to the press. On what basis is this calculation based? Mr Albrecht repeated it here, a few moments ago, in his study and in all those that have been exposed to us today, there is nothing new. Everything was public and already on the table in relation to the requests. So it's not a surprise. It must be decided, since the government has had all the documents on file for many months. However, he systematically recedes his decision-making because, on the wrong pretexts, no agreement is reached. What is he going to do in this case that has dragged too much? Like all of us, you heard Mr. Vercruysse. You know that it takes at least six years, Madam Minister, if you choose the CRM mechanism. It's March 2018. As Mr Vercruysse has told us, it will not be easy to proceed, both at our different levels of power and at the international level. Minister, what is your real timing for the Energy Pact? I'm worried. At the last plenary session, the Prime Minister, who took over the matter, informed us that a decision would be taken at the end of the year. You know it'll be too late. Like pro-nuclears, you know the more we wait, the more nuclear will be maintained after 2025. I have the impression that that is what this government wants.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u8	I was now supposed to give the floor to Mr. Van Hees. But, unless I'm mistaken, he's not with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u9	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have now been briefed on the studies, which was one of my questions. Today we know what the cost of a complete exit is versus a partial exit where two nuclear power stations remain open during a transitional period. The answer is quite clear: it is about EUR 900 million per year in 2030. That amount's gonna end up somewhere. We cannot claim that this should not be paid by consumers or businesses or the public authorities. It is quite clear: somewhere the price has to be paid. A political discussion will determine where and by whom it will be paid. That's the big discussion. From time to time it is suggested that the cost is between EUR 150 and 900 million. It is quite clear, according to Mr Albrecht's statement and his answers in the newspaper, that in the case of EUR 150 million, this is a what-as-scenario: let's say that the extension costs are twice as expensive as those for Objectives 1 and 2; let's say that the CO2 costs are only EUR 15 per tonne in 2030; let's say that the gas price goes down. A few weeks ago we received a report from the CREG showing that between 2016 and 2017, the gas price did not go down by two percent, but went up. Moreover, the price would rise again in the coming year, as is predicted. I cannot look into the future and say what the gas price will be in 30 years' time, in 20 years' time, in 10 years' time, but the assumptions that Mr Albrecht rightly referred to as determining factors, which would only cost the pact EUR 150 million, cannot be considered as the lower limit of his scenario. For this reason, he also specifically chose not to propose scenarios. He only used one number for that. That's not in his table. That is not in his official results in the annex. So we need to go into that. A number of colleagues warn that the extension of a nuclear power plant's life does not pay off and that no one, except Electrabel, has anything to do with it. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to remind you of the discussions that we held on the other side of the street on the extension of the life span of Tihange 1. I was a member of the opposition at the time and we did not approve the draft law at the time. In any event, the message was that the extension of Tihange 1's lifetime would pay for our energy policy, which would reduce the cost of offshore operations and increase competition on the market. Mr Calvo will remember, I have already mentioned the example of three times that we supported his proposal that the two funds, which had been created, should be renamed the Wathelet Fund and the Vande Lanotte Fund to those who found money in it to shape our energy policy. Now, in the event of an extension of life, it must be ensured that if the market price or marginal system costs increase, as stated in the Plan Bureau's proposal, everyone will have to benefit from it. If we do that in the right way, that will be the case. Furthermore, Professor Albrecht concludes that the energy pact scenario will be €1 billion more expensive than the reference scenario from 2040 onwards. This raises the question of whether we should reconsider the reference scenario and the pact scenario in order to determine whether that latter scenario is the ideal one. In the short term, that makes little difference, so we have some time to look at what we are aiming for in the longer term. We must look at this if a pact scenario of EUR 0 gigawatt nuclear costs EUR 1 billion more than the reference scenario with the same 0 gigawatt and similar data for keeping the two nuclear power stations open. I come to the issue of the CRM system. That is not entirely true, as Mr Nollet has said, but it is a name for the child. The way in which this will happen will indeed have to be considered. I believe that PWC's input is a good input, but we have to make choices in this respect and see how we set it up. I hear a lot of different arguments. For example, I hear parliamentarians arguing that we should be completely removed from the strategic reserve. Is that a wise choice? Should we also use all the places where gas plants now operate in the strategic reserve for new gas plants? What's the trajectory for that? Is it wise to develop a CRM mechanism that fixes only one method, while I believe that there are other capacity mechanisms that can reduce costs? I would like to have an exchange of views with other colleagues on all these questions. The debate will undoubtedly take place to a large extent within the government, with all the elements on the table, but it is absolutely necessary to follow the coalition agreement properly. There is a balance between four elements, namely security, which always comes first, sustainability, affordability and security of supply. Every proposal will have to comply with this before it can be continued. In this sense, it is always interesting to know when the figures from the climate administration will be available on the assessment of the CO2 impact of shutting down the power plants and how to proceed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not put my questions in detail in order to give the Minister more time for her presentation. And since this meeting is due to end at 2 p.m., we do not have much time. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, where we are now, we should have been there by 2015. Then the decision should have been made. What we are absolutely expecting now is clarity. So there's another study now. The people who spoke this morning confirmed that the new study did not actually add anything new. We had almost all possible calculations, here and there in detail and here and there with a different interpretation, but in fact the new study was superfluous, as it confirms what we already knew. Madam Minister, it is clear to those who are in favour of extending the life of nuclear power stations that nuclear power is an outdated and dangerous energy source, which is not even reliable anymore. If we look at how many times our nuclear power stations have stopped in recent years, we are at a capacity of 30%. So nuclear energy isn't even reliable anymore. So the discussion is no longer about whether or not to shut down the power stations. They simply need to be closed down if we are to take the future into account, and we want to put security first for future generations, which, incidentally, was your first point, Mr Wollants. It has already become clear that nuclear power stations cannot be safe at 100%. Perhaps no plant can be completely safe, but the consequences of a nuclear power plant problem are, of course, a thousand times greater than in another power station. If we put this first, then we simply have to apply the adopted law and close the nuclear power stations by 2025. All studies also show that postponement will cost us much more. Delays will not make the situation safer and, moreover, a number of things will be shifted to the future and costs will increase again. So the question is no longer whether we are going to close the nuclear power stations, but how we are going to do that, Madam Minister. That is my only question to you today. What's the status? What's the timing? You have heard that at the end of this year is too late. We need six years. In six years it'll be 2024, so it'll be over five to twelve. My question is quite clear: what is your timing? How will you handle things? In what way will you convince some fellow Members of the majority? If you cannot give a clear answer to that today, Madam Minister, that means that you are choosing the scenario to keep the nuclear power stations open. If you do that, you must be fair and say so, and no longer say that there is still a need for consultation, studies and that. It is clear that some people in the government are insisting on keeping the nuclear power stations open. If you step into that scenario, I have the feeling that you are gradually doing so effectively, then you must say so today. If you do not get involved in that scenario, I expect you today to have a very clear timing for the final conclusion of this Energy Pact and a clear view of the closure of nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u11	Mr President, Minister, you have made every effort to postpone this debate for a number of weeks. I therefore believed that you came to Parliament this week and stopped your protest because an agreement is within reach. If you have heard Mr Wollants, it is obvious that there is anything but an agreement within reach. The colleagues from the Open Vld are not here right now, but Mrs Dierick is still here. You have heard Mr Wollants' statement. He even called for additional analyses and studies. It is clear that the N-VA has not yet deployed the landing. Madam Secretary, I am very concerned about that. A number of colleagues have rightly said that it is now really time to make a decision. I think you should make a clear choice. Either you run the file in a serious way, or you pull your hands off this file. Indeed, as you are currently working, you are a mortgage for the Energy Pact rather than a solution, a facilitator. Instead of building political support, you have attacked colleagues from the majority in recent weeks. I don't think anyone understands that. A politician like you with 15 to 16 years of experience knows that one cannot attack colleagues if one wants to reach an agreement. Besides, you're not even attacking the N-VA. You attack the parties that basically share the views of your own party and the Prime Minister. No one understands that! At the moment the problem is not just called N-VA, Jan Jambon, Bart De Wever or Bert Wollants. The problem is also called Marie-Christine Marghem. You're helping sabotage that nuclear trip today. Either you turn that switch, or you better not have anything to do with that Energy Pact and stay off it in the country's interest and the importance of our energy future. That's the choice you have to make. Either you do it in a serious way and build bridges, also politically. Either you say you don't touch it. I have one more technical question for you. We saw the statement of ENGIE last week. ENGIE says it's only going to extend that, that it's only going to make those investments if there's a state guarantee, if there's an investment guarantee. A mechanism other than that for Tihange 1 is therefore called for, but not for Objective 1 and Objective 2. I have seen, among other things, the reaction of the N-VA, who said that she is not jumping for that. And that's a good thing. I'd like to know how you feel about that. Is such a mechanism, such a guarantee for you an option yes or no? After last week's statements, that is very important. It would be crazy to invest in theoretical scenarios, to still opt for an extension, while the government may not be willing to deal with the modalities outlined by ENGIE. I would like that question answered. Madam Secretary, I would particularly like to make an appeal to you to deal with it in a very different way or otherwise simply to stay away from it. The file is too important to be mismastered in that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u12	Mr President, Madam Minister, I will not be long because all the questions have already been asked. I join my colleagues in talking about the numbers, about the costs of extending the power plants or not, and for whom? Minister, in addition to the studies that have been mentioned and those that were again asked of your administration a few days ago, decisions must now be made. These are global decisions that commit to the future. Everyone is well aware of that. It is no longer a matter of backwards, because it is already almost too late, as was mentioned in this morning's debate. Minister, the time has come for you, for the government, to choose the process that will be used to ensure security of supply in a sustainable manner and at an acceptable price for businesses, communities and individuals. I therefore look forward to your proposals, those of the government, in full clarity, and I would also like to know the timing of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u13	Madam Minister, I will not say much about the content of the Energy Pact itself. I just want to say that I would have preferred to have this discussion in 2015. That was the original date in the coalition agreement. There's a delay. If one is critical of this as a Member of Parliament, the Minister in the press says that one is a seeker of attention. I absolutely cannot appreciate that statement. I will continue to do my job as a Member of Parliament. I still hope that we will have an Energy Pact as soon as possible. Now that the file is in the hands of the Prime Minister, I have confidence that it will come to a successful conclusion. There's a lot of studies on the table. They're all pointing in the same direction. Yes, a nuclear trip can if we take action now to build more gas plants. We can discuss these studies for hours, the system costs, how high the gas price should be. There are so many uncertainties, but we just have to decide. Yeah, we're also worried about affordability. CD&V has therefore always argued for an energy standard. That too is an important part of the Energy Pact. Yes, we also need to focus on energy efficiency, because that is still the best way to keep the invoice under control. The Energy Pact means so much more than the core exit. Only now the focus is so strongly placed on that. It's very clear. The way forward is just deciding, cutting the buttons. At least waiting isn't an option anymore. We can only stress that we want what is in the coalition agreement to be implemented in this way. Everything must be done to ensure that the core exit is realised according to the legal calendar. At the same time, a monitoring and correction mechanism must be put in place to ensure security of supply, security, sustainability and long-term affordability. That's all we're asking. We hope that there will be an early conclusion. Madam Secretary, I have one more question. I would have liked to have seen your calculation of the 15 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u14	As no group that had not tabled a question wants to intervene, minister, I turn to you for the answers to the various colleagues. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have already had the opportunity to talk about this on many occasions and at a time when things are becoming more and more concrete, I would like to tell you this. First of all, you say: "The Energy Pact, we have been waiting for it since 2015". You're not the only ones. As I have said on several occasions, you know that an inter-federal energy pact is not conceived without the intervention and agreement of the Regions. It was precisely the intervention and agreement of the Regions that took all this time, since it was only in 2017 that we were able to put into practice a joint work on an energy vision and that we were able to draft a document that we were going to forward to our respective Executives. We did this from December onwards. The Walloon Region and the Brussels Region have adopted the energy vision of the four energy ministers, making the energy vision become a pact for them through their intervention. As far as the Federal Republic and the Flemish Region are concerned, of course, I can only talk about the Federal Republic of Germany. We were asked to encrypt different scenarios, which we did. The authors of the studies here have explained to you that the reference scenarios were discussed in consultation with the firm, knowing that these reference scenarios were chosen in consultation with the majority members, in order to be able to test them precisely and to have more precise elements than what existed in the previous studies. It was also a question of being able to discuss, in particular at the request of a party of this majority, which, before committing itself and adopting the vision of the four energy ministers, wanted all the parameters related to security of supply, the cost of leaving nuclear power, the safety of installations and CO2 to be circumscribed and reflected in specific studies. It is in this context that we, at the request of the government, mandated Dr.Albrecht and the Planning Office, and added to our reflections on the capacity compensation mechanism that we had already launched for a long time. I've told you several times. This is a study carried out by PwC in a first phase – Phase 1 – on the cost of a capacity compensation mechanism for Belgium, which is also derived from previous studies commissioned in 2015 and already carried out by Elia in 2016. This means that already in 2015, my firm and I imagined that the only way to get out of nuclear power, and thus replace more than half of the electricity generation in our country, was gas. It makes quite sense, even if we can talk about it for hours. This is the least polluting energy, unlike coal, which is widely used in other European countries. It is also a flexible energy, capable of reacting in an energy mix in which the share of renewable energy is increased. It is in this context, by imagining such solutions, that I, together with my regional colleagues, have come to establish this vision. We'll need gas power plants. We will have to install them in our territory and support them through certain mechanisms. The Plan Bureau recalled earlier: electricity accounts for just over 20% of our energy consumption. Next to this, there is heating and movement. This energy is produced and consumed in vehicles other than electricity, and represents the remaining 80%. This vision, now regionalized, concerns all vectors and has been established with the other energy ministers. It is the federal government that is responsible for the major power plants linked to the Elia transmission system. Today, the only problem is that of electricity. The studies commissioned at the request of the government, and especially at the request of a member of that government, were intended to clarify and test a series of electricity scenarios for nuclear release. What do we see in these studies? I won't dwell on it for long. This is not unusual and could be intuitively deduced, from other studies and from a knowledge of the sector. If you install new power plants on the territory, as long as they produce without having covered the depreciation related to their existence, they will necessarily cost more than fully amortized power plants, even beyond the quality of the energy in question. Second element: the gas produced in the absolute more CO2 than nuclear. However, we have always come back to the same issue, from which we have gone out with the regional energy ministers. We are betting on getting out of nuclear power, because we are complying with the 2003 law of exit from nuclear power, which provides for the release in 2025. And in this context, we are experiencing our vision of a proactive and proactive scenario for the installation of gas-fired power plants. It is in this context that the CRM study, which was discussed today on costs, will shortly be completed with a legal study, which I will present to the European Commission in order to allow further work. The examination of different systems took time in other countries such as France, Italy, England and Ireland. Thus, we believe that if we choose a system that has already been adopted by the European Commission, it could take less time. Indeed, the examination is very thorough and it is necessary that this system be ready to operate at the time of the invitation to tender – especially at that time, knowing that the system cannot be reduced to a single energy, in this case gas power plants. The timing of the federal government cannot be communicated to you as I do not know it yet. The last DAB meeting, between the heads of cabinets of the various parties of the majority, reviewed again all the studies available. I agree with you – and that is without harm because I have done so with the regional ministers – that the decision is a political decision. We need to make a political decision on how our country will conceive the future of our energy production and consumption in the context of an evolution, an energy transition that we call for. This political stance is not without regard for the realities. That is why, Mr. Chairman, I will speak to one of my colleagues to illustrate this reality through an examination that we have done in our cabinet. Taking into account the technical data proposed by the various authors of the studies, we arrived at a cost of 15 euros per household per year for the pure and circumscribed segment of the construction of the gas plants necessary for the exit from nuclear power stations. This does not take into account the cost of the offshore. I would like to draw your attention to this point, but you know that we have drastically reduced the support provided to this sector for the construction of the last parks in the North Sea until 2020. This does not take into account the costs of the central grid or all that is regionalized, such as the distribution network, onshore wind turbine, green certificates, regional solar panels, etc. This cost was used to show the direction and to show that the exit of nuclear power is tenable, that it is financially bearable for households and that it can be considered without difficulty in order to be able to move on to our energy transition. I will pass the floor to my colleague Ruben Laleman, who will explain how we arrived at this figure of 15 euros excluding VAT per year and per household. It's pretty simple. As Mrs Dierick said, we can discuss the numbers as far as we can, but what matters is to make a decision. The numbers that are delivered to you today are by people who have the experience and the technical models that allow us to see where we are going. On the basis of these figures, we have been able to develop, at least for the consumer, a direction, an order of magnitude, which makes it clear that the energy vision proposed by the four energy ministers is tenable and that it can be envisaged for tomorrow's energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u16	The big question was how the amount of EUR 15 per family was achieved. We have not taken just one figure out of one study, as has already been shown in the previous debate. We have thought about the specific impact on the invoice for the replacement of nuclear power plants by gas plants. After analysing the studies, we have come to the conclusion that there are two important aspects to this. Firstly, there is the evolution of electricity prices or the marginal system costs, such as the study by the Planning Bureau that calculated them. Secondly, there is the price of the construction of the gas plants, for which some aid is needed according, inter alia, to the PwC study. On the basis of an average estimate.... because the estimates of both parameters vary between pessimistic and optimistic...................................................................................................................................................... The sum of these two amounts to about 5 euros per megawatt hour, and this brings us to 15 euros per year per family.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u17	As regards the cost to businesses, it is obviously significant since they consume much more annually than the average household. If you multiply this assessment by the consumption of companies, you lead to figures that they will have to agree to in the context of the energy transition. This will be more difficult for those with very high electricity consumption or very high intensity, which is a matter of two distinct situations. Our country has developed an offshore system based on degression. In this way, part of the company's bill is covered by more than a certain amount. This mechanism has been under consideration for months by the European Commission, which, having studied our strategic reserve, will now receive a document dealing with the same model, namely the Belgian capacity compensation mechanism, of which I have spoken to you. She will then discuss it with us, as will the issue of the possible maintenance of the strategic reserve. According to the Commission, it will not be able to last for more than five years. Finally, we will talk about the degression, which I have just mentioned. The European Commission will work at its own pace. It is very difficult to give you a timing about this. However, this should not prevent us from continuing our work, given the results of other countries which have obtained from the Commission the mechanisms necessary for the operation of gas-fired power stations, which do not naturally find their place in a liberalised market, since we are in a transitional phase. The work will have to continue after the political decision that will have to be taken as soon as possible, as I repeat regularly in Kern, even if we are currently in DAB. I do not know at the moment when we will discuss it again in the Council of Restricted Ministers. I fully agree with Professor Albrecht and Mrs Lalieux: we must bear in mind that one day or another our nuclear power plants will have to be shut down, because they are not eternal. A transition must therefore be considered. As I have already had the opportunity to discuss this with you on several occasions, the problem of a transition lies in the speed with which it is made and the ability of our economy to absorb it or not. The question is, therefore, what is the timing of the government's energy transition in our country, taking into account a range of parameters, including economic ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u18	Mr. Chairman, would I dare say that I am disappointed with the little information, with the few answers that the minister has given? There is one possible interpretation, namely that it is completely stuck because it is the Prime Minister who has the file in hand and that, in doing so, it can no longer act and move forward. I hope that this is the right interpretation and that the good news will be brought by the Prime Minister. There is another possible interpretation: there will be no Energy Pact and the majority will no longer be able to agree. After hearing the speech of our colleague from the N-VA, I must tell you that I am not entirely reassured. In any event, what is not acceptable in your speech, Madam Minister, is the hindsight, the delay, the extra time from what was provided for in the government agreement and that you are now imputing to the Regions. In your opinion, they are responsible for the impossibility of a common agreement. Minister, you have not learned from the difficulties you have encountered in the past as a result of your positions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u19	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u20	Minister Nollet has the floor as part of her reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u21	I have no problem with that, Madam Minister. But attacking members of the majority or the Regions is of no interest. I think you're locking yourself up by insisting on believing that your method is the right one.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u22	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u23	Madam Minister, Mr Nollet has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u24	We're used to it! It always happens in this way with the minister and it is unfortunate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u25	As chairman of this committee, it is my responsibility to uphold the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u26	Madam Minister, you will come to the end of the legislature with no progress of one millimetre in this matter. You've got everything in your hand, but you're screwing it up! In any case, if we consider this Parliament, at this stage, nothing emerges; nothing, until now, is the subject of real progress in terms of energy transition, except the extension of nuclear power. This suggests that this is your choice, which we obviously cannot accept; all the more so, it is contradictory to what you have announced and, above all, to what the Prime Minister has announced. Mr President, I conclude because I do not think there is any point in continuing a dialogue of the deaf. My hope is that the Prime Minister will come to an end within a relatively short time frame and that there will be a firm and definitive agreement on this matter. Some talk about Easter – I dare hope this can be good news, you never know. Indeed, the actors are waiting. The actors in the transition are ready. Studies confirm that it is feasible. They even say it's within reach. It is only a matter of political choice. But I think you're not in a position to move the matter forward, unfortunately. We have been moving towards this conclusion for quite some time now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u27	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, that was a bit of a non-response. No response on timing. Nothing. No response to the method. Nothing. We're still in a stalemate. I think we're even more deadlocked than a few months ago. We note today, Madam Minister, that the N-VA is saying that it will not comply with the law or the government declaration. At the same time, you have no alternative majority in this Parliament to amend the law on the exit from nuclear power. If I hear correctly, neither the Open Vld nor the CD&V want to change the law; and in the MR, it's half in half, Mr. President. The impasse is total. This blockage will bring chaos. Since 2015, you have not made any decisions. If the law does not change – which I hope – and nothing is in preparation, we will close the entire nuclear reactor fleet without having planned anything. We have heard that preparations for this energy transition should have already started a few years ago. Madam Minister, either you decide – but I don't think you're still in a position to decide, your partners don't give you a choice – or this government, and especially the Prime Minister, decides tomorrow; or this country will face enormous difficulties. You've had everything in your hands for a very long time and there's nothing to do, you don't want to put this country in the energy transition. Today, that is what we have heard again from you, Madam Minister. Therefore, we will ask the Prime Minister how he intends to get out of this situation because you are leaving us in a complete impasse today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u28	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is a very interesting slope to calculate the things, as they are now calculated for the 15 euros, in this way. I believe that, as you rightly point out, a lot of factors need to be taken into account in the exercise. You are right to refer to the degressivity, which already exists. However, we know that when degressivity is applied, one pays more and the other pays less. That's the concept of degressivity. There is also reference to the energy standard, but that is the same story. If it is decided that someone does not have to pay something, someone else has to pay it and they also have to pay the part that one did not have to pay. That will be the major political debate, namely the question of who pays. I note that there is still work to be done in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u29	Madam Secretary, I'm very disappointed. However, we could not expect anything else. Indeed, over and over again during such discussions there is no answer to the questions at all. What worries me very much here is that you have not even expressed the will to land the dossier. You've told me a lot of things. It is now evidently the fault of the regions and regions that they are standing where they are today. Madam Secretary, it's your responsibility. What we and the majority of those here today expected is that you would have taken a clear position and, secondly, made a clear decision. We still don't have that. You forget that there is a majority here in Parliament, but also in almost all the other parliaments in this country, in order to bring the Energy Pact down and get out of nuclear energy. You do not, however, use it. On the contrary, you keep going around the hot stuff and stretching things out for you. In the end, however, it will have to be established that it is too late. That will, I fear, be the result of the way you deal with this dossier. I hope that the Prime Minister will make another attempt to speed up the process and make a decision. However, I fear that, as some of you and some of the members of the government say, Mr Wollants, there is already a scenario whereby the use of two power stations will be permanently extended. It is unlikely that the government will simply set aside a law that we have all approved. Mr Wollants, it is also unlikely that we will risk the safety of all the citizens of the country in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are delivering world news. Indeed, after four years in office, our Energy Minister has discovered that the core step is a political decision. In fact, that is the only sensible thing we have heard today. Hooray! Madam Minister, the worst of all, in your case, is that we should also congratulate you on that. That says a lot about the rest of your insights and your impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u31	Your n'attends rien de vous. Eat your ne vous entends pass.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u32	Madam Secretary, it is very strange that you do not hear but still respond. However, your personality is complex and, in my opinion, material for a PhD in psychology rather than in political sciences. The analysis of your personality requires more work than the analysis of your policy, because your policy is a white sheet. If the issue were not so bad, I would not be so interested in it, but you are placing a mortgage on our economic fabric, on our social cohesion and on the sustainability of our society. And not only until 2019, I am sure that we will be rid of you in 2019 and we will not be burdened by you anymore; Prime Minister Michel will not be stupid enough to refer to you as Minister for Foreign Affairs, but also after that, because we will still suffer from your dawdling. That is what makes me angry, and I am indignant about it. In this way, you will play the game of the N-VA by waiting as long as possible to sabotage the core exit. You have to stay away from that dossier, and we will ask the Prime Minister on Thursday. Mr President, I would ask you to put our resolution on the Energy Pact on the agenda as soon as possible. This resolution has been on the agenda several times, but the majority has taken it off each time. Following today's disappointing hearing, I would like to ask you to put that discussion on the agenda next week. This discussion, in which everyone will have to confess colour, will lead to a political decision. Of course, we believe that the principle of the core step and the text of the Energy Pact should be the starting point. This text needs to be made case-by-case and supported by the regions, who have been accused of everything, but who have already done so to a large extent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u33	You like to choose a consistently derogatory formulation. I have the shell to bear this kind of consideration and have been very patient since the beginning, for three and a half years. Two or three actions have been carried out for the energy transition: we have allowed the offshore to develop in the North Sea, at an affordable cost for the citizen. However, renewable energy has not been dealt with brilliantly in the Regions, in the head of former Walloon regional ministers present here, since a financial bubble is still outstanding in Wallonia and will fill its finances for many years. I like to receive advice from wise people, who have held important positions and have left a legacy, which must now be managed. The second initiative for the energy transition is the Law on Storage and Demand Management. None of the regions has yet implemented such legislation. We have made it possible, in our country, to make demand management and storage at the central level and to allow a mechanism to be based on the increasing implementation of renewable energy in our energy mix. Renewable energy, for the federal state, is the offshore that I have just mentioned. Finally, I am not going to invent specific timings for the Energy Pact in three or four days, but, I assure you, we are working tirelessly - the Prime Minister and I - to ensure that the meetings succeed at a high pace and that we can make the political decision, which is complex, mature. When you observe the complexity of the subject and the studies, it is quite normal that we should be able to deepen certain aspects. If you consider that, in the end, the Energy Pact only concerns the federal government, you have forgotten the responsibility you have had to exercise at the regional level. In fact, increasingly, since the last state reform, the Regions have enormous responsibilities for the energy transition and, above all, for energy production. The aim is for the Regions to commit themselves in 2030 to making 40% renewable on their soil, whether in wind, solar panels or other renewable energies. So it's not a big deal. This will obviously have an impact on the consumer's bill. It will also have an impact on security of supply, and that is why it is imperative that this Pact really be an agreement with the regions, so that we know what they are committed to and what the residual power generation capacity we have to develop on our territory. I understand you're impatient. I am also quite anxious to see this Pact come to fruition. We're halfway. Just a little more patience. The Brussels Region and the Walloon Region have already adopted the vision. I hope that the Flemish Region will also develop proactivity in relation to this. The federal government will ensure that a decision is made as quickly as possible. You will, of course, be informed of the subsequent meetings and the foreseeable timing of our landing at the federal level, whether by me in committee or by the Prime Minister, if you wish to question him on this subject, which I have no doubt.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u34	Madam Minister, I am the last to defend Mr Bourgeois, but you have the nerve to say that it is up to Flanders to decide proactively. Ladies and gentlemen, that only highlights the extent of the Marghem problem in this debate. Now that it is a politically sensitive and sensitive issue, after the majority members of parliament, the Flemish Region must also believe in it. If you had already gotten your government on the line, you would have credibility if you had said so. The problem today is not Geert Bourgeois, the problem is your majority. The whole of Parliament is eager to decide. Mr President, I repeat my question. Our resolution should be on the agenda next week. They have been kept off the agenda long enough. So we absolutely want our resolution to be discussed here next week. The Minister has merely motivated us to engage in this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u35	Mr President, I will be so quick because I do not see what could be added. Before the meeting, I was waiting. After the meeting, I'm still waiting. The vacuum succeeds the vacuum. In terms of timing, methodology, decisions made, it's appalling! Fifteen days ago, I was telling you about a hidden agenda. This one is becoming more and more precise. We will also question the Prime Minister about this non-decision decision. We are very disappointed with your intervention, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u36	Mr President, Minister, I have just asked you one question, namely about the EUR 15. You said the explanation was very simple, but you had to ask that your cabinet employee gave it to you, so he wouldn't have been that simple, or too difficult for you. In any case, I remain confident that the Prime Minister will implement the coalition agreement and I hope that he will give us news soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u37	The minister's final intervention gives me the vertigo of platitudes. When you have nothing to say, it is better not to speak again. If I could give you some advice, minister, that would be the next one. Try to keep on working rather than saying things that are not right in this debate! If you want something else in your balance sheet than the simple extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, you don't have much time left.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic841x.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your interventions.
