ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u1	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for my delay. I had an appointment with the Prime Minister's office to discuss a case. As long as I am in the mood of this committee, I propose that you start with Mrs Dedry's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u2	Madam President, Minister, I have a few questions about the veterinarians who are responsible for the FAW's inspection of our food in the meat industry. Firstly, what is the specific status of these DMOs? How do these people get paid? Are there specific commitments for this? With what resources does the BFSA finance this? How does the BFSA obtain these resources? Secondly, can you explain in detail what the specific mission of a DMO is and how it is implemented in practice? What should a DMO do if it discovers non-conformitys or infringements? Where does he give this to? What else will happen to those reported infringements? Which path do they take within the BFSA? If non-conformitys or infringements are identified, how will this happen and what consequences will it have? Is there a rotation of DMOs at the various farms in the meat industry? Thirdly, in the case of animal abuse by the slaughterhouse in Tielt, animal abuse was not reported by the DMOs. How is this possible? What steps can you take to ensure that this does not happen again? Fourthly, is it true that when there are blockages of companies in the meat or food industry, such as at the time of the fipronil crisis, DMOs are temporarily out of commission? Finally, do you think that the DMOs carry out their mission independently? Why is that? Why is that? How do you guarantee that independence?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u3	Madam President, in view of the fact that you were retained by the Prime Minister's office, I will not allow you to make a comment about your delay. Mrs. Dedry, first of all I would like to draw your attention to the fact that on 16 March 2018, the Council of Ministers decided on my initiative to instruct the Federal Internal Audit Service to carry out 2 external audits of the BFSA. Various themes related to the DMOs to which the BFSA refers will be addressed in the context of these audits. You have a lot of questions. I'll try to be as complete as possible, considering the time I'm getting. An independent veterinarian in charge of a DMO mission shall have an independent status. The implementation agreement signed annually by the DMO sets out its fees. These implementing agreements are available on the website of the BFSA. The fees of the DMOs are paid with funds from the fees. These fees are due by the operators for services provided such as the delivery of certificates, controls or audits. For certifications and inspections in cutting plants, the DMOs draw up a performance certificate and encode it in the AdminLight CDMO application. In the case of inspections at the slaughterhouse, operators shall pay fees determined, for example, for the species. The assignments of the DMOs are described in notebooks that can be found on the website of the BFSA. The total volume of contracts is determined on the basis of the total volume of contracts awarded to the local control unit. Contracts shall also be awarded on the basis of the specifications. The head of the local control unit divides the tasks among the DMOs, depending on the skills, experience, availability and distances to be travelled. Where a DMO veterinarian working in a slaughterhouse detects non-conformitys or irregularities, he shall immediately take the necessary measures on the spot. He then informs the LCE about this, which then analyses the problem and then takes appropriate action. An annual rotation of 20 percent of the performance of the LCE's DMOs is foreseen. This means that over a period of five years all DMOs have been replaced. Since 1 July 2014, the checks on animal welfare are no longer the responsibility of the BFSA, but they are the responsibility of the Regions, even though the BFSA, of course, cooperates with the regional authorities. In order to avoid any conflict of interest, when signing the framework agreement, the DMO declares that it has no direct or indirect interest in one or more undertakings to which the agreement in question applies. Under the same agreement, it also undertakes not to carry out tasks on animals, plants or producers with which it would have directly or indirectly committed an act in its other professional or private activities. Finally, the DMO undertakes to report immediately to the client any form of conflict of interest in its own right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u4	Minister, I have two reservations about your reply. Firstly, it is very important that you come quickly with the results of the two audits, because you always refer to them in many answers to many questions. So I would very much like to know when we can expect these audits, because different dates have already been circulating. Will it be before or after recess? A second brief remark is that it does not seem to me to be a successful example of state reform that animal welfare and what has to do with it have been split in terms of competence. I wonder whether the matter is not being re-federalised better.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u5	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, I have always said that the two audits would be completed before the end of summer 2018. I've always said that. The date remains unchanged. Indeed, it has always been said that the audits will be ready by the end of the summer. And as you know, the end of summer falls on September 21.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u6	We will therefore hold a meeting after that date to discuss these audits.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u7	Madam President, from a methodological point of view, I do not understand very well why the questions relating to the Old Abbey are mixed with those relating to Baltus. These are two different files. As far as I am concerned, these are very different questions. I understand that it is the cabinet that wants to mix everything into a single debate, which will prevent us from having specific answers. That's a problem. Of course, I have no problem with the Baltus questions being grouped together. There are several questions about the Old Abbey, it does not cause me any problem either that they are grouped together. But I don't understand why we are bringing together the lot of questions about the Old Abbey and the lot about Baltus, except in a desire to drown the answer that the minister will give us. A second methodological problem is the following. It's obviously not your fault, Madam President. These questions were tabled in April. It's late June. It is therefore more than two and a half months from the time these questions were asked to the time when they were dealt with. For such important matters concerning consumer protection, I believe that this is not the case and that there is a problem of the minister's availability to Parliament. Remember, you asked for these files to be dealt with quickly. If "rapidly" means two and a half months later, then I understand that there are several problems in crisis management at the AFSCA level. I would like, at the very least, on this second methodological point, to agree that the issues will be dealt with within a month. The solution is simple: in the absence of a faster operating modality, all questions will be transformed into questions which must be dealt with within 15 days. This is obviously not practical because it amplifies the work of the services. However, I must regret - I suppose I am not the only one - that questions on such important issues will only be dealt with after two and a half months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u8	Mr Nollet, it is up to the firm to group together certain questions. If the answers are not precise enough, I therefore count on your vigilance to reply and re-examine the minister. I think, however, that he will have to give answers about both the Old Abbey and Baltus or Derwa. With regard to the agenda, the availability and organisation of work depends on the agenda and current events. Mr Ducarme was available for the Veviba problems. We have met on several urgent occasions, as a matter of priority on the other subjects. We tried to convene the commission more quickly on the Old Abbey and Derwa affairs, at times other than the scheduled commission times. We did not agree, and it is therefore a pity that these questions are only being asked now, when they were tabled more than two months ago. We cannot repeat the story, but perhaps we have to organize our work differently according to the theme. We can think about it for the new year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u9	Madam President, I know that Mr Nollet is intoxicating in a rather disgusting way. I therefore need to clarify the facts again. Thank you, Madam President, for your objectivity. Every time you requested my presence in committee, I came here and, every time, I communicated dates to you. Over the past two months, I have gone to committee four times to answer your questions. We have always agreed on dates. I never refused to come and answer you. Therefore, Mr. Nollet, you can take note of this. It seems to me that initially it was the committee that decided not to meet on these dossiers; it was not me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u10	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u11	Look, Mr. Nollet, what you like is to manipulate the facts! But they went as I just recalled. When you asked me to come and answer questions - and I hope, Madam Chair, that you can confirm it - I came before you. If you want to compare the ministers from their presence in committee, you will see that I am still responding. For the rest, the organization of meetings is naturally the responsibility of the committee. In this case, it seems to me that, in this case, it had decided sovereignly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u12	Madam President, I am going to ask my question, but I cannot, of course, leave the Minister's speech unanswered. Minister, you want to make the facts speak, and I can join you in this. The filing date of the question is...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u13	I told you that...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u14	Wait, would you mind? I think I have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u15	Mr Nollet, you said that my availability for Parliament was not at the meeting!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u16	I'll ask you both to shut up. I will give you the floor in turn, so that we can move forward. One speaks; the other reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u17	Madam President, I do believe that you have given me the floor. Mr. Ducrame, you're calling on the facts. It's not because you're upset that I'm gonna get mad. I remind you of the facts. The filing date of the questions is a fact. It's April 10 for the first and April 12 for the second. The fact is that we can only deal with it today, at the end of June. I think that in terms of parliamentary control, this is a problem. Of course, the majority did not want to deal with the issue earlier. With this vote, the majority refused to deal with this issue when we asked for urgency. Nevertheless, the President is right: we must prepare for the future. We are not going to repeat the past, we can only see the facts of the past. It is possible to organize things so that in the future we should not systematically resort to an inquiry, which must be dealt with within two weeks. But if that's what you're inviting us to do, we will, of course. I come back to my two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u18	I give the floor to the minister for a brief answer before you ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u19	Madam President, I agree with all the formulas that allow parliamentary scrutiny to be exercised. Mr Nollet, what I do not accept is that you indicated that I would not have been available for Parliament. That is not true, given the contacts and the agreements following the invitations of your President, Mrs Gerkens, to come and answer the questions. That you have a number of comments on that, I can admit. I've been a parliamentarian long enough. But it is not true that the minister is not available for Parliament. That's a lie. It's intoxicated. I'm sorry. I have to tell you that the relationship with your president, who is also Ecolo, is going very well. We are always trying to follow up on his requests to come and answer questions. I think we'll be back on 10 July. Do not say that the minister would not be available for this commission, please - simply because that is not true. That's absolutely not true!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u20	However, we will all agree that the time between the submission of a question and the answer is sometimes too long. In this case, it's more than two months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u21	Thank you, Madam President, for that conclusion. I fully agree with her because, indeed, the problem is there and that is what I was seeing. With regard to La Vieille Abbaye's case, the RTBF news newspaper of 10 April last revealed that the AFSCA had carried out various checks in the last few months within the company and that it had found serious infringements and breaches. I quote a part of it: outdated meat, mouldy and spoiled meat, missing or falsified labels, more than 400 kg of which we do not know the end use, traceability problems, and I pass by. These shortcomings led the administration to initiate a procedure for the withdrawal of authorisation and authorisation of that undertaking. Minister, I would like to know why, despite the important elements of the file that I have just recalled, you have ordered your administration – and, it seems, contrary to the latter's opinion – not to go on appeal from a decision of the court that had suspended the decision to withdraw the AFSCA. We know very well that we do not win every time on appeal, but in the face of this kind of situation, in the face of what was pointed out, and in the face of the fact that your administration proposes to appeal, since it is aware of the evolution of the case law in this field, should the precautionary principle not apply in this kind of situation at least? To try to understand your attitude, I would need access to the information contained in the various AFSCA reports. What do the AFSCA reports contain, which the various workers anonymously expressed their suspicions about La Vieille Abbaye? I'm not going to give you a full press review, minister. We're not going to go back in time. We said it earlier. Nevertheless, I believe that you remember what was mentioned at the time. Has the firm deceived the consumer by hiding out-of-date meat falls in its ham sausage? If so, how long? Beyond these facts, I also want to know what is the justification for the lack of recourse because when the documents that have been made public, notably by the RTBF, tell us that it is simply an e-mail from your office that says "the minister does not want to go on appeal", without any other form of explanation in relation to his own administration, we are entitled to ask many questions even if a posteriori, a reconstruction of the answer is always possible. Finally, beyond the facts, I would like to know what lessons you learn from this potential new problem we have experienced in the food sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u22	That was the first question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u23	Indeed, the minister did not answer the question as to why he was mixing the two files. He just intervened on the other side.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u24	You will have the answer in the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u25	So I come to my second question on the other subject. This time, it is the newspaper Le Soir of April 12 that again shares testimonies. This is a testimony from an AFSCA worker who said that "Minister Ducrame's bizarre interference in the fipronil crisis in managing the case of wholesaler Denis Baltus". These are the terms that this worker used. I repeat the excerpts from the newspaper; excuse me, minister, for quoting the facts. According to this testimony, "Minister Ducrame has given wood to this company three times". In particular, you would have changed the wording of the usual procedures so as to have the last word. Can you tell us in detail what your interventions in this case were, and explain them to us each time with justifications? What were your contacts in managing this file? Why did you want to impose the fact of keeping your hand on the file? Why did you extend the procedure and offer additional time at the end of the procedure, contrary to what you yourself had written to the company concerned? I have the documents in connection with this case. I hope that despite the fact that you have mixed the two questions into one and the same point, you will be very precise in your answers. As the Chair has said, I will take care of this as part of the continuation of our work today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u26	Madam President, Minister, it is pleased that we can finally have a debate in Parliament on the Derwa and Baltus cases. As has already been recalled, the first revelations in the press date back to April 11. So it's been a little over two months. In the last committee in which you answered the questions, I asked myself when we could deal with this subject. You said you'd come back to us as soon as possible. I have three questions, Mr. Minister. Minister, first of all, I would like you to shed light on the suspicions of conflict of interest in your office. I would like to know your answer to the elements that were read in the press. In the Derwa case, you are accused of not following the advice of the AFSCA and of appealing a judicial decision to the detriment of public health, but perhaps also to favour a party colleague, who is also active in the meat sector. A few months after your intervention, Derwa, on the brink of bankruptcy, was taken over by a consortium, Belgium Meat Partners, composed of 5 companies, one of which, Sobemax, is managed by one of your parliamentary colleagues. Are these elements correct? Is there a bond between them? In the Denis Baltus case, you are accused of having intervened to protect an operator who had been caught in flagrante delicto with false information on the traceability of eggs, while we were in the midst of a fipronil crisis. One source reported in the press that an advisor to Minister Jeholet had worked for both the Liberal and Baltus. Here again, what is the part of truth in these assertions? Minister, this is an opportunity for you to tell us your truth. Finally, the press was surprised at the eviction of your office, in the midst of the Veviba scandal, of Benoit Cassart, a relative of the administrator of Sobemax. I don't make an ad hominem attack, but Benoît Cassart is Secretary General of the National Livestock Trade Federation. He normally defends his sector with the authorities, which is his role, which is normal. But what may be its added value within the framework of your AFSCA competence, with, moreover, a risk of conflict of interest since the person concerned is himself an operator subject to AFSCA controls? In short, can you shed light on the suspicions of conflict of interest in the Baltus and Derwa cases? Why did you hire and then thank Mr. Cassart? How many members of your firm, advisors and experts, have structural links with the production sector? Can you guarantee the independence of your advisors and experts? My second question concerns discriminatory treatment. To all appearances, we're here in double standards. For Veviba: intransigence and immediate withdrawal, as requested by the AFSCA. For Derwa, on the contrary: tolerance regime and Minister's intervention not to follow the advice of the AFSCA. How do you justify this two-speed approach to consumer health protection, which reinforces the idea that a Minister of Health is needed to manage this matter? How do you justify this approach to agri-food companies – for which knowledge of the legal environment in which they operate is essential – not only in terms of legal certainty, but also – more generally – in order to assess investment opportunities? Finally, Minister, my third question concerns the future. For my group, the Derwa file demonstrates the relevance of the PS proposal, which is to replace the oversight exercised by the Department of Agriculture on AFSCA with that of Public Health. This new case, which follows on from those of fipronil and Veviba, also proves that the recurring and significant problem lies not only within the AFSCA – that is, the subject of the audits that you have ordered – but also in the articulation between the decision-making level and the work of the Agency. This new case is a new example of the state of relations between the PSAB and the Minister. Minister, you have reduced the Agency's budgets and re-oriented some of its workforce to trade missions. Then you did not always apply the communication protocol, at least to my knowledge, announced in the wake of the fipronil case. You're promulgating reforms. What steps are you going to take for the future? And how do you intend to carry them out?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u27	Madam President, allow me to say that I find this a very strange aggregation of questions. I need to ask a question that I don't think fits the other one. However, I shall make them. Mr Minister, the majority of the federal government did not, in the end, accept a proposal to organise a joint meeting of the Chambers of Health and Business. The meeting would deal with the findings made by the Federal Food Agency with charcuterie specialist La Vieille Abbaye. However, there was no objection at the Conference of Presidents to a joint committee meeting following new revelations by the Federal Food Agency. Mr Minister, first of all, what is the government's motivation not to go into the proposal to organise a joint meeting of the Chambers of Health and Business Committees on the findings made by the Federal Food Agency with charcuterie specialist La Vieille Abbaye? Secondly, how and when will Parliament receive the report on these findings and how will the report be made public?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u28	Mr Minister, of course I am not going to repeat all the questions that have already been raised by my colleagues. I would like to focus on two elements. If you have gathered the questions on these two cases, it is because they both have concerns about the findings of the AFSCA. Lack of traceability and non-compliance with hygiene rules have sometimes been mentioned for several months or years. However, your position is different from that of the AFSCA with respect to the choice of a withdrawal of approval or the agreement of a time limit to be put in order. It is difficult to understand how, in such important and suspicious cases in terms of hygiene and traceability, solutions such as these are preferred, while they may have health consequences. The second element that I also want to identify is the need for real independence from the sector and from the minister and his cabinet in relation to the sector. There is real independence, and then there is formal independence, which is as important as real independence, since at no time can one suggest that there could be conflicts of interest or that arrangements would be made because there would be links between certain actors. It is on these two dimensions that I am interested in having your answer and lighting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u29	Madam President, I would like to thank Members for these questions, which give me the opportunity to give an update on certain elements raised during the Easter holiday. Following the disclosure of the serious fraud committed by the company Veviba, I announced two audits. The aim of this démarche was to reform the BFSA. I wanted to improve an instrument that is important for the protection of consumers, for the support of our small producers and for the support of our exports that are more vital to the agricultural sector than ever before. It is obvious that I had a little doubt, after deciding to set up these audits, that these measures would not please everyone and would generate a number of reactions, here anonymous. If these two files are attached, it is because they emerged suddenly after the decision on audits in full paschal leave from anonymous sources. Some wanted to inflate a polemic that was based only on sand. If that had not been the case, we would have had to respond to Parliament earlier. I am not going to turn this old case back on, but I am going to go back to the facts, I am going to owe it to Parliament. This will clarify a number of things, although a number of elements have been clarified through the media. So what are the facts? As far as Derwa, the Old Abbey, is concerned, this is a case that dates back to December 2016. This case is part of a "P15" procedure. In concrete terms, this means that the non-conformities alleged against these companies do not pose any imminent danger to the health of the consumer. That's the first element. If we look at the file objectively, we have to say it first. Mr Senesael, I am not going to compare with the situation in Bastogne, where you had Category 3 meat waste re-launched in the human consumption chain. Here, we're in a P15 procedure. If we had been in a more risky procedure, it would have been a P0 procedure, resulting in the immediate withdrawal of the approval. One could have gone even higher in the reaction with a temporary closure procedure. This is a P15 procedure. When we look back at the facts and on this basis, it already allows us to understand the situation in a few words and in a more objective way than we could have done. Procedures like this are extremely frequent. For example, there are often instances of non-conformities, including favourable reports, found by the PSAB. The rigour of these files requires nuances such as this, namely that non-compliance can go hand in hand with a favourable relationship. As a precautionary measure, AFSCA had made a recall of goods. It had also prohibited the company from marketing its products without any evidence of traceability. In addition, it had seized a number of goods for destruction. The rumour about the use of outdated meat in the manufacture of sausage or ham has never been proven. We have to call him back. Nevertheless, I had confirmed the withdrawal of accreditation given by the AFSCA in August 2017. We kept pressure on the operator in view of the non-compliances. We are in a P15 procedure, I remind you. Non-compliance does not necessarily mean an imminent danger to the consumer. If you have to express yourself on this type of file, both of you, let's do it rigorously! Non-compliance does not mean an imminent danger to the health of the consumer! It's the regulatory terminology. The operator then brought an action for interim relief before the Court of First Instance of Liège. The Court found that there was a violation of the rights of the defence in the proceedings before the AFSCA Appeals Committee. He then decided to suspend our decision. The judgement was extremely substantiated and it quickly became clear that it was highly probable that the appellate court would confirm the decision of the first instance court of Liège. Therefore, since there was no imminent danger to public health, I repeat, we decided not to produce this call. This is a logical, perfectly rational solution. In addition, in addition to the fact that there was no imminent risk to public health, a new screening of the AFSCA conducted in March 2018 demonstrated that no further non-compliance remained in the head of the company. I have therefore acted strictly in my role as minister and in strict compliance with the rules in force. However, I have asked the PSAB to have more legal support for the decisions. Indeed, this is not the first time that decisions of the AFSCA, and of DG Control in particular, have been quashed in appeals. In this context, I have forwarded to the Audit Monitoring Committee the elements that enable them to take stock of the number of decisions that have been broken and to give us the opportunity to see where the damage is in these audits. We want to know how to ensure that the AFSCA can better protect us from these successful remedies for operators. We would like AFSCA to further support its decisions in the future. As far as the Baltus file is concerned, I must tell you that it is part of a similar dynamic. It started in February 2016. In strict compliance with the legislation in force, of course, I have decided to grant this company an additional nineteen days to regularise its situation and correct anomalies which then pose no danger to the health of the consumer. Why did I do it? Because the egg sector had already suffered enormously. Naturally, we must make decisions that respond to such a situation. I would remind you that this file began in February 2016. It has therefore been followed by the AFSCA for a long time. So I gave this company an additional 19 days to give it a last chance. The file took place between February 2016 and January 2018. After two years, Mr. Nollet comes out of his box and scandalizes that I have consented to such a delay. Look, it's almost laughable. Mr Nollet, a dossier on food safety needs to be studied. This reminds me of your last move on pesticides, when you claimed that Belgium was a sieve and that these products were not tested there. However, millions of tests have been carried out! So, you're only looking for buzz. Your only goal is to highlight yourself, by surfing on fears in the field of health security; as others do in the field of safety. Please, look at your files, whether it's pesticides or this one, before you make any statements. Everyone will win. It's not about surfing to do adimating. This can have dramatic consequences, also for operators. I've been a parliamentarian long enough to know that we need to move a little forward. But if, in the area of health and food security, one could have at least an objective presentation of the dossiers, that would be valuable. I would like to point out that the newspaper Le Soir was quite regular in this matter, indicating that all this was based on rumours. That's not the case with all of us! Some have made the connection to the fipronil case. However, I would like to recall that after the fipronil crisis, I demanded that the tests continue through monitoring and cover the entire egg industry in our country. This phase has only just ended. This allows me to tell you today that we have, in Belgium, some of the safest eggs in Europe, given the checks carried out. And we will continue on this path. When we see what is happening in Germany or the Netherlands – this is the subject of another question – we must naturally continue and guarantee consumer guarantees at this level. When, in January 2018, I decide to grant, on a two-year file, an additional nineteen days to this small business, which has already suffered in the context of the crisis and which is only the subject of a finding of minor non-compliance, this has nothing to do with fipronil. I must not remind you that the fipronil crisis dates from the summer of 2017 and not from January 2018! There is no fipronil in this company in January 2018, when it is given an additional 19 days. Again, we are in a P15 procedure and not a P0 procedure or a temporary closure procedure. This P15 procedure does not imply an imminent danger to the health of the consumer. So stop your shortcuts! What are you looking for? Scared? I saw on the RTBF site that we were "freeing eggs in a company where there was still fipronil". You have to be careful! The fipronil crisis has passed and there is probably still an effort of rigour to produce. Everyone has the right to error, including journalists and public services. After 12 hours, changes were made to the RTBF site: there was no fipronil in this company. It is good to recognize his mistakes but, in the meantime, the operator was marked with the fipronil in January 2018, when there were no more! I am asking no better than to give explanations that can allow an objective approach to the files! Mr. Senesael, you've pointed the cabinet staff. You know that food safety regulations are very complex. It is essential to have a team that has a good knowledge of the structure, organisation, functioning of the AFSCA and knowledge of the sectors active in the food chain. For example, I just joined part-time someone who works at the Walloon Federation of Agriculture, the FWA. I am not going to quote the profile of all the employees of our firm, but we are trying to be as close to the realities as possible, both in terms of agriculture and in terms of consumer safety. A number of people in the field are being raised. Some officers are also seconded from the administration, as is the case in many firms, regardless of the level of authority, including in the Brussels Region or the French Community. Mr Senesael, I know that you do not ignore it. As for the fact that Mr. Cassart is no longer part of the team, you know that I replaced Willy Borsus and gradually composed a firm that is my own. You are still referring to the tutelage of the Federal Minister of Agriculture on the AFSCA. There are currently 21 out of 28 agriculture ministers in the European Union who have oversight over their national food security agencies. In addition, at the Councils of European Ministers of Agriculture, most agricultural and economic points take place on the same day as the points on food security. The vast majority of agriculture ministers are responsible for food security. I believe that this is an unconditional asset for Belgium in the context of bilateral meetings with foreign ministers from third countries in order to remove health barriers and promote our exports. Agriculture is the first link in the food chain and it is legitimate and consistent for the Minister of Agriculture to retain this competence, on the understanding that the priority for food safety remains the health of the consumer. As I have told you on several occasions, I am well aware of the request for change concerning guardianship. Sorry to disappoint you, it won't happen! Mrs Lambrecht, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the decision not to organise a united committee was taken by your committee. It remains free to organise its work. Mr Senesael, I would also like to point out that you have referred to the budget that I obtained in the context of the March budgetary decisions, namely an additional EUR 2 million for the AFSCA, for additional checks in the meat sector but also for additional inspectors and inspectors. This budget will be recurrent in 2019 and will allow for the hiring of many additional auditors, particularly for the national investigation unit. It's important. As far as the communication protocol is concerned, I do not think you have followed the file. It seems to me, however, that I had already referred to it many months ago here in committee. We have given AFSCA clear guidance on communication. The ongoing audits, at both the operational and the control policy levels, will certainly also allow us to have recommendations on the internal and external communication of the AFSCA. These will enable us to make this agency even more effective, although it is one of the best European agencies today. We must work together, as I do with the number one AFSCA and the various directorates, to make it even more effective. The crises we are going through in this country - fipronil, Veviba - call on us to produce reforms that will give the AFSCA even more means to prevent difficulties and ensure that the products offered to consumers are fully compliant.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u30	I therefore give the floor to the members of the committee for reply. We are well placed in the context of oral questions, so we will limit ourselves in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u31	Since we have several oral questions, the advantage is that we can have two replicas for the price of one! You explain, Minister, that you have linked the two files, because everything that is going out right now is directed against you on the grounds that you initiated the audit. I don't think so and I invite you not to fall into paranoia in relation to anything that has come out or could come out in this matter. Everyone has an interest in these audits, to see clearly where the problems are, and to improve the system of protection and control today. It is also in everyone's interest, beyond audits, that justice should be clear. Moreover, the searches that took place are certainly linked to this desire to know exactly what the AFSCA knew or did not know in the various files. So there's the audit on the one hand, there's the work of justice on the other, and for me it's all in my interest that the reforms can be launched as quickly as possible and go to the bottom of things. Seeing behind it a bad intention of either one or the other? Keep your thoughts and focus on the substance rather than become somewhat paranoid about it. It's a small invitation from me on this matter. Now, as far as the Old Abbey case is concerned, you insist that this is a P15 procedure. That is correct, but I urge you not to minimize the facts when looking at the P15 file and when you see the content. First, you shut it down and then there was the reverse as a result of the elements of justice. It's not for nothing! I guess you're not just closing for paper issues, but behind that there were serious enough elements. I quoted the official records. [[...]] [[Without microphone]] But then you'll have to explain why you initially closed it. You say "no," but I know why you finally...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u32	You want me to give you a clarification?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u33	Of course! Please, if the president pleases.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u34	I'd love to. So we are in a P15 procedure, I repeat: not P0, nor temporary closure. We are in a procedure that does not imply an imminent danger to the health of the consumer. As I told you, this is a case that dates back to 2016. The AFSCA works in this framework through plans that it puts in place with the operators. It is indeed common for the Commission to carry out a number of checks in this type of case and to see whether the plans it has planned with the operators are being complied with. The idea is really to accompany the operator to the maximum. If, at some point, we go so far as to make a decision to close, withdraw authorisation or otherwise, it is also to keep pressure on the operator, even if the finding is that there are non-conformities which are safe for the consumer. The idea is to accompany and keep a form of pressure. But in this case, I repeat, in this case, there is no danger to the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u35	Minister, that's interesting, since you're bringing completely new, complementary elements to your first answer. It is therefore to maintain the pressure, because the company did not put in place what was needed. I think it was not for nothing that you forced the closure; because the company was not putting in place the necessary measures. That is why I invite you never to minimize, even in a P15 procedure, because the risk is there. You say, we didn't go on appeal because we could lose. That's right. That's true very often. I am also interested in your figures, since you mentioned that you had compiled a statistical record of the number of appeals. I feel like you already have those numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u36	This is a sample. I'm not going to insult you with a sample, Mr. Nollet. It is clear that I ask, within the framework of the audit follow-up committee, that the committee should also be able to look at this aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u37	Minister, in this case, we were taking the risk of losing on appeal. In view of the documents in the file, it was an eventuality. With regard to my question about Baltus, Minister, you are rebuilding history. I have your letter of January 18 in front of me; it is no coincidence that I asked you what the exact date was. I guess you remember that mail. You sent it to the company Baltus, stating: "In exceptional cases, we offer you the possibility of having a final check before the possible withdrawal of approval and authorization. This check will take place within ten days." Let me remind you that your letter dates back to January 18th. It is therefore not at all a question of an additional 19 days. You're talking about a check within ten days. Moreover, it was carried out very quickly. And you seem to be upset about this, since you are still giving a new deadline, contrary to what appears in your mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u38	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u39	Minister, we're going to let Mr. Nollet finish his reply, otherwise we won't get away with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u40	Mr Nollet, I would like to ask you a question so that you can complete your remarks. After the 19 days, have there been any anomalies in this company? No, Mr. Nollet!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u41	Madam Chair, if the minister makes the questions and answers to better circumvent my questions, we will not get away with it. I simply note that the Minister's reply, which invokes the 19 days, does not accurately reflect the content of the official mail that the RTBF was able to obtain and then posted on its website. Indeed, at that time, the minister announced to the company a control within ten days. In addition, it was carried out very quickly after the letter had been sent. The company was not in order yet. How did the minister react? Contrary to what he announced - namely, that it was a last reminder - he granted a new deadline. All questions therefore remain. Why, systematically - and in this case on three occasions - has the minister granted time limits? Why is it not the same in other cases, for small entrepreneurs who are also in difficulty? There, he refuses any delay. That is what we are concerned about in this dossier, and that is why we wish to examine it further. Some have made assumptions; not me. I just want to understand what it's about. I regret to tell you this, but your answer, Minister, does not provide me with any factual evidence to explain this situation, while the letters provide other information. I'd like to say one more word about pesticides, since you've talked about it. Mr. Minister, you're making a mistake talking about a million checks, and so on. I never questioned the fact that there were controls.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u42	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u43	Let Mr. Nollet reply! Otherwise, we can't make it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u44	That's right, Madam President. Mr Ducrame, I said that Belgium is a sieve in winter. I guess you read it. I assume you know how to read the paper. The latter stated that, on the basis of an answer you gave to one of my written questions, there was no control over pesticides in winter because there was a three-month gap between the invitation to tender for public contracts and the timing of such controls. That is your own answer to my parliamentary question. You will remember the table showing the figures 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015. For these four years, there was zero control in the three winter months. The best proof that this was right and that we did well to update it is that you decided to intervene and change things – and you're right. I can only support you on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u45	Your questions are out of the question, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u46	Mr Ducarme, you mentioned that. It's too easy not to let me answer now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u47	At the same time, we sum up his point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u48	During the winter, too, there were millions of tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u49	I never said otherwise! But from January to March, in the winter, there were no such million controls. There was simply not that control. Read the answer you gave to my written question. Read the numbers you gave. The decision you made is the best evidence that we were right about the fact that there was no control during the winter months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u50	Yes, there are, Mr. Nollet!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u51	That is your parliamentary response, but it is also the fact that you demanded it for 2019. For next year, you demanded that there be again...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u52	Don't be paranoid, Mr. Nollet!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u53	We'll let Mr. Nollet finish. Then the other parliamentarians will be able to reply and, after that, Mr.Minister, I will give you the opportunity to add a word. Otherwise, we can't make it. I would also remind everyone that we are in the context of oral questions and not in the context of endless questioning and debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u54	And, not to be displeased by the minister, the parliamentarian always has the last word, the last reply. He knows that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u55	That's what I'm worried about now!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u56	Minister, I repeat that there were no controls in winter. This is a real problem. The best evidence is that you required AFSCA to change its shoulder rifle in 2019 and introduce pesticide controls during the winter months. And that's a good thing. Accept the compliment, but also accept the criticism! Although you did not hold office for four years and there were others before you, we say there were no controls in winter, and these facts are based on the answer to my parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u57	We do all the replicas in a row, because elements will be similar.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. To the point of saying that you bring precise elements in answer to some of my questions, but that for the other part, you remain rather evasive. I will respect what the Chair has legitimately requested and will not abuse my reply time. However, I will point out three elements. We're for Derwa and Baltus in a P15 procedure. You treat these two procedures differently. I repeat your words: "There is no imminent danger to the health of the consumer." This does not mean that there is no danger. "Not imminent" means that this danger is not close and violent. But the potential danger exists. I still draw attention to the fact that you found irregularities. When consumers feel uncertain about the products they can consume, they must be reassured. Not going to appeal does not reassure him, even if I concede to you, you are asking the AFSCA for more legal support for his decisions. This will only go in the right direction in the future to respond in detail to the legitimate wishes of consumers. I come to my second element, Minister. Both are under P15 procedure but you are granting additional time to the Baltus company to get in order. We do not understand the difference in case processing for both companies. Finally, here's my third element. You have spoken about conflicts of interest and your willingness to gradually separate yourself from some members of your cabinet because they do not correspond to the vision you have of the matter that you are dealing with, and I thank you for that. However, you did not answer my specific questions about certain members of your firm and potential conflicts of interest. You've been pretty mute about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u59	Minister, I really have great respect for you in your capacity as Minister, but I would like it to be mutual. I have tabled a very short question which does not really fit in with the questions with which it was merged. The only thing that matches is the name "La Vieille Abbaye', which is not even the subject of the question. I only have one request. The Conference of Presidents does not object to the organisation of a joint meeting of the Health and Business Committees, but the government does not allow us to do so. From your reply, I believe I understand that the committee itself has decided not to hold a joint meeting. Is that right? Who can answer my question? Do you agree to that as a minister? A joint meeting would put you out of the wind, too. Was there a vote on whether or not to organise a joint meeting? If it doesn't happen, I find it detrimental to you. I don't want to put you in a bad light. By the way, I have mentioned your actions several times constructively. I cannot imagine that my fellow MEPs voted against organising a joint meeting of the Health and Business Committees on La Vieille Abbaye. Who can answer me this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u60	As chairman of the committee, I will answer that question. It was indeed requested that the item be put on the agenda in the Committee on Public Health and the Committee on the Economy. The parliamentarians of the majority refused to have a committee attached to this matter. There was, therefore, a parliamentary self-attack.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u61	Can I say something else? So that is the same majority that the minister in plenary dares to attack on his policy. I find this scandalous to you too, Minister. You are part of the majority, but you do not support it by approving it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u62	Minister, I would like to make a brief link with a part of your answer that the AFSCA would remain under the control of Agriculture, that it would not fall under the authority of Health, because everywhere else it is the ministers of agriculture who have food security in their responsibilities. And to link again with our export needs within the European Union. I really think, minister, that questioning this is also a question of everything that has just been said. If the concern is the health of consumers, the way in which controls and production patterns are organised must be reviewed. When one is in an economic logic – because it has nothing to do with agriculture in this case – and when one is aiming at export, one necessarily organizes the control and the link with the control bodies in another way. This is what we are doing here, by granting deadlines or by failing to intervene sufficiently quickly and firmly vis-à-vis producers, on the grounds of economic development and exports.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u63	Minister, in a forum published in the newspaper Libération, a group of French researchers and doctors warned against the danger to human health of SDHI fungicides, which are widely used in Belgium in most wheat and barley crops. According to these scientists, these fungicides tend to block the SDH enzyme, which is essential in the breathing mechanism of our cells, which can lead to cell death by causing serious encephalopathy or, on the contrary, uncontrolled cell proliferation and being at the origin of cancers. Minister, I have no doubt that you have had the opportunity to read this rostrum. What is your view on this? Do you confirm, like the signatories of this forum, that no laboratory specializing in human pathologies has been consulted prior to the placing on the market of the fungicides in question? Although the findings of French scientists do not seem to be shared by all, do you not feel that it would be necessary to conduct an in-depth study on the subject? Would you be inclined to have such a study done? Finally, are you considering suspending the sale of IHDS until an assessment of the hazards and risks has been made by independent bodies? If not, taking into account the fact that we cannot play with consumer health, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u64	Mr Senesael, since taking up my duties, my priority in food safety is obviously consumer protection. With the pesticide reduction plan 2018-2022, we have deepened the efforts initiated in recent years in this area. As a reminder, on my proposal, this plan was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2017. The Council of Ministers also approved a draft royal decree which, inter alia, seeks to prohibit the sale of glyphosate to individuals. As I know that you are also following the file, I am in contact with my European counterparts who had opposed the extension of the authorisation of glyphosate for professionals, in order to better coordinate us for a global release of glyphosate. I have indeed read the gallery published by the daily Libération. This newspaper, as you may know, is one of my favorite readings. It was signed by a collective of researchers, not least. I also hear statements from other scientists. I am thinking, for example, of Professor Bernard of the UCL, whom you know. He is astonished by the findings of these researchers, which he considers to be poorly nuanced in the absence of data on the potential impact of these products on human beings. We must also respect other opinions. EFSA, the European Food Safety Authority, is based on the current scientific literature and always takes into account important safety margins in the development of its recommendations on standards for these products, as well as for all other plant protection products. In Belgium, as elsewhere in Europe, the type of fungicide mentioned by French researchers is among the most controlled. The AFSCA has been able to inform me that the rates found in Belgium do not present any risk today, given the European regulations in force. That said, the points raised by French researchers obviously deserve special attention. I have therefore instructed my administration to carry out an analysis of these incriminating molecules in order to assess the level of exposure in Belgium and to take stock of any public health impacts. Mr Senesael, I agree with you at least on the need to move forward, to clarify the matter. I hope that this report will be available quickly. I will of course not fail to inform the committee, and you yourself as a matter of priority, as soon as these elements are received. On the basis of this report, I do not rule out, where appropriate, furthering these measures by using, as I have already done, the Scientific Committee of the AFSCA, in the event that certain elements corroborate elements advanced in the forum that you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which is more than satisfactory. Indeed, you take into consideration the problem, you do not reject it with a backhand. Then you have asked for follow-up and will take appropriate action based on the findings of the report you are about to obtain. I can only thank you for that, as well as the results of this study.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u66	Mr. Secretary, the Order of Veterinarians is incredibly messy. I have already put this question to your fellow Minister De Block. MEPs are getting a lot of signals that the workings of the Order of Veterinarians would not go well. There are many problems, such as internal conflicts between elected members, violation of the rights of accused veterinarians, there are judgments of the Joint Appeals Board and of the Council of State which critically question the current way of working of this Order. I have the following brief questions, Minister. Did you know about the complaints already received on both the De Block and the Genens cabinet? Do you think these complaints are well founded? Why is that? Why is that? If so, what steps have you taken in connection with these complaints? What is your opinion on the operation of the Order? What do you think should be changed? What steps will you take to achieve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u67	Mrs Dedry, first of all I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the veterinary medicine law of 28 August 1991 currently shares the competence of the Minister for Agriculture, the Minister for Health and, specifically for the subject of your question, the Minister for Justice. I have regular contacts with the Supreme Court of the Order of Veterinarians. For example, I recently called on it in the framework of the Royal Decree on vaccination against bluetongue, to allow the delegation of vaccination to the keepers of animals. As in other cases, cooperation with this body in this dossier is proceeding optimally. Indeed, I have received several letters about the authorities of the Order. I am therefore aware of the appeal before the section of the Council of State to which you refer. However, the Belgian State is not a party to this action. So you will understand that I cannot take a stand because of the separation of powers. The Council of the Order of Veterinarians is therefore completely autonomous. For the rest, I invite you to ask my colleagues, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health. They will undoubtedly be better placed to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In any event, Minister De Block said in reply to my oral question that she considered it necessary to intercede. It says that this would be a good thing for all the ministers concerned. I hope that you too will take on the role of mediation. I know, strictly speaking, you can say that you have nothing to do with it legally, but it's so furious that someone has to try to intercede.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u69	Minister, on May 14, the newspaper Gazet van Antwerpen and RTL revealed a new scandal in the meat sector following the arrest of two officials of the company Smits. Under arrest warrant, they were presented to the investigating judge on Saturday, 12 May. Several searches were carried out in the company and at their homes. The frauds identified include labelling with falsified storage dates and packaging. The company reportedly used organic meat packaging when it was normal chicken. The judicial police and the AFSCA went down to the scene and deplored enormous hygiene problems. The workers were interviewed. The survey is ongoing but it is a particularly important actor in Flanders since it provides most of the butcheries in the province of Antwerp. Minister, what is the schedule for the next steps? What are the results of the AFSCA inspections in this slaughterhouse now and for the last three years? Indeed, significant dysfunctions rarely occur overnight. What were the sanctions and/or deadlines with recommendations addressed to this slaughterhouse by the AFSCA and with what follow-up? What measures have been taken to protect consumers as a result of these findings?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u70	Minister, on 12 May, detectives of the federal judicial police and the BFSA invaded Smits poultry products in Heist-op-den-Berg. Also at the home addresses of the managers, house searches were carried out at the same time. There was evidence that the labels on the shelf life data on the meat would have been tampered with. There were also questions about hygiene in the farm and ordinary chickens would be packaged and sold as organic chickens. Last year in August salmonella was detected by the producer in chickenchipolata of Smits. It had to be removed from the shelves. Minister, I have four questions on this matter. Firstly, when has the BFSA been informed of such abuses? Secondly, what exactly was established? Third, was the company shut down? Fourthly, is there a danger to food safety, to the people who have consumed products from this supplier? I would also like to point out that it is very unfortunate that we know that there were problems on 12 May but that there is not a committee meeting until 26 June to answer our questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u71	Minister, I will skip the introduction. The facts I cite are the same as those of the other colleagues. I'll go straight to my questions. First of all, how did the BFSA find out about this fraud? Secondly, could the BFSA have established this fraud before? Thirdly, do you believe that the chance for food fraudsters by the BFSA and the police is large or small? Fourthly, what were the consequences of the raid? Fifthly, what measures will you take to ensure that such fraud is no longer possible? Sixthly, when tampering with shelf life data, I immediately think of the spoiled meat and the dangers to public health. Can you guarantee that public health has never been compromised? You have already answered my seventh question. It was about the results of the audit and about its timing. So it's going to expire.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u72	First of all, I would like to clarify that the Antwerp court opened an investigation into the activities of the company Smits in Heist-op-den-Berg. This investigation has been carried out on the basis of a suspicion of fraud in billing, but also at the level of traceability. The holding has been registered with the BFSA as a cutting plant, a producer of meat products and for the marketing of poultry meat. So it's not about a slaughterhouse as such. I understand that there has never been any infringement of hygiene regulations in that file. In the judicial file, which is still under investigation, the cooperation of the BFSA was requested, in support of the judicial authorities. I would like to stress that information on problems in billing the company's outgoing meat was the basis of the judicial investigation. This is therefore primarily a tax-related investigation, in which the AFSCA was requested to cooperate, since the establishment concerned is an actor in the food chain. The findings made during the searches carried out concerned defects in the traceability of outgoing products, in connection with the alleged fraud at the level of invoices. On the other hand, poor hygiene practices have not been identified in the establishment at this stage. The AFSCA imposed the temporary closure of the facility. This measure was intended to freeze the situation on the spot. The Agency then initiated the procedure for withdrawing the authorisation. The products present on site were seized. AFSCA informed us that during the period from January 2015 to May 2018, eleven inspections had taken place with a favourable result. Therefore, no formal warnings or reports have been issued. As part of the judicial investigation, I am reminded that to date no product has been identified as involving a potential risk to food security.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u73	Thank you, Minister. We therefore find ourselves in the context of inspections for suspected or detected frauds of a nature other than those affecting food security. Perhaps that's why I didn't find anything on the Agency's website related to this company, such as a last check or a final announcement. It is important to give this type of information quickly to citizens, as they read in the press that there is a problem with storage dates, organic packaging for normal chicken, as well as hygiene concerns, although this would not be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u74	Madam President, I have no reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u75	Minister, I agree with Mr Gerkens. The problem is indeed that it takes so long between the time when the consumer is alerted via the media and when the results show that it is not so bad. That period is not only long for Parliament, between the moment we put a question and the moment we get an answer, but certainly also for the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u76	I can hear your request. In this case, the policy of the AFSCA is to communicate only in the event of a food safety problem. Having said that, I would like to put this question to the follow-up committee. However, I fear some kind of confusion. There are frauds of this kind, but if the AFSCA is to begin communicating on issues unrelated to food security, I feel that it would be tantamount to getting it out of its role. On the other hand, when clues help to cast doubt, for example by means of the press, it is possible to reflect on the need for clarification. In any case, I will submit your suggestion to the Monitoring Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u77	Minister, I follow you in the first part of your story, where you say you will think about how to improve the communication of the Federal Food Agency. However, one must not only communicate when one wants to say something about food safety itself, but also communicate when confusion is caused in the press. That's what happened here. It has been said that ordinary chickens were sold as organic chickens and that hygiene was not in order. So, Minister, I urge you to ask at the head of the Food Agency that if wrong information is launched that misleads people, he says that this is not true. In this dossier he should have said immediately that no ordinary chickens were sold as organic chickens and that there is no problem with public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u78	I agree, Minister. It is very important to communicate and to put things right. We all know that the media does not always accurately reflect the facts. We have all experienced this with what we said ourselves. It's up to the food agency to get rid of unrest. To say that there was no danger to public health and therefore no need to communicate is certainly not an argument. That can change in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u79	We're loading the boat from the audit report. That's good!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u80	Minister, you recently announced that you will ask the European Union for a derogation for the use of neonicotinoids in sugar beet cultivation. At the end of April, the ban on neonicotinoids was approved by a qualified majority of the Member States of the European Union. So you made that decision despite the decision to ban Europe completely, despite all the scientific reports that prove that these products have a catastrophic impact on, among other things, the bee stock and despite all the warnings and supplications to do something about the dramatic decline of bees, butterflies and other insects. Mr Minister, that is a blow to nature policy and the scientific studies that show what disasters these products can cause. Mr. Secretary, why do you take all these advice from scientists next to you? On the basis of what expertise and of what advice have you requested this derogation? Are you not convinced of the danger to bees of these products and the great importance of bees for the fertilization of many agricultural crops?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u81	Mrs Lambrecht, Belgium is of course very concerned about the problem of pollinating and useful insects, especially bees. The importance of their role in biodiversity should no longer be demonstrated. For these various reasons, the federal government had already approved a bee plan in 2017, which was supported by the ministers of the Environment, Public Health and Agriculture. Belgium has always supported the proposal to step out of the neonicotinoids, with a very short phase-out for the beet and witloof sector. That position is mainly pragmatic. It is based in particular on scientific advice. That advice was given on my question by the agricultural faculty of Gemblooms. According to that opinion, drawn up by Professor Bernard Bodson, the existing alternatives are not sufficiently credible. In a certain number of cases they are also worse in terms of impact. After all, they imply repeated treatment with leaf insecticides that have become inefficient against aphids. These leaf treatments pose more risks not only to pollinating insects but also to users and the environment. An outing without taking the alternatives into account thus runs counter to the objectives of protecting pollinating insects. It's even a step back. The ban also seems premature for the beet and white-loof sector. After all, it completely ignores the fact that the zones affected by the yellowing disease can be faced with a 40% reduction in efficiency. As stated in the opinion of the Gembloux Agricultural Faculty, the measure clearly condemns the beet sector. In our country, we are talking about 8 400 jobs, not to mention the jobs linked to the sector. If tomorrow a company of 8 400 employees were to close, everyone would stand trial, but because this is about jobs in agriculture, wouldn't that be the case? I do not agree: these jobs are as valuable as other jobs. In this context, it is essential to provide for a transitional period. That period should allow the development of alternatives that are good for the environment and for our biodiversity. The derogation provided for by European law may be granted following opinions of the Recognition Committee for Pesticides for Agricultural Use. To this end, guarantees will first have to be given that there will be no flourishing full crops after sugar beet and witloof. The sector, which has to submit its own application, is currently examining whether it will be able to provide these guarantees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u82	So, Minister, the deviation from what Europe is imposing has to do with jobs that you want to protect. You think these jobs are as important as other jobs. We do not distinguish between jobs, but you should be able to tell us how long the transition period would be in which alternatives are sought. Are you talking about a number of months here or are we talking about a number of years here?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u83	At the level of the European Committee, we have defended, like 12 of the 28 countries, a proposal aimed at getting out quickly. As I said at meetings we had previously held, my department is in full step with the parliamentary proposal tabled by Mrs Gerkens to introduce a transitional period of three years. I think it's realistic. Today, the agricultural sector has integrated which, if there were to be a derogation, would be short. In the European system, this derogation must be renewed annually. The problem with a number of products is related to the fact that the industry may have lacked innovative initiatives. I've already had some contacts with industrialists and we're going to have to innovate. If we need a transitional period, that is for a specific reason for Belgium. We are the only European country to be struck by jaundice throughout the country. Without a transitional period, we inevitably condemn these 8,400 jobs linked to the sector. The messages I have sent are clear: it is a transitional period to get out of it forever!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u84	I won't argue with you anymore. Of course, I have an ear for the jobs, but three years is far too long if you know what kind of jaw blow that is for our nature policy. Even if you know how bad we are at innovation in Belgium. But we're gonna keep following that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u85	Mrs Lambrecht, I will insist on one element. I am extremely sensitive to the issue of bees. There are many beekeepers in my area, but once again we have to be clear about the facts. Neonicotinoids are far from the first factors in bees' death. They happen, in the causes, after a number of pesticides and diseases. They are an aggravating factor, I would like to hear it, but if you want to condemn 8 400 jobs, you do not leave a transitional period. I believe that 8,400 jobs in the agricultural sector must be protected and this implies a short transition. I have also proposed to the Commission that it should improve its functioning somewhat in relation to a number of decisions to be taken on plant products. It's, every time, black or white. Either we stay as we did for glyphosate, or we go out as we do for neonicotinoids. The truth is that if we want to work in a pragmatic and realistic way, sectors need a transition. I think that the regulation should evolve in a way that allows for a short transitional period (phasing out), which could also have the benefit of reducing, sometimes artificially, the Member States and the representatives around the table who are well aware, most of the time, of the need to move forward in this area but who must also count on a number of realities, including jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u86	One final comment, Minister. You say, "It's white or black.', but I quite believe in gray. I do not want to be portrayed here if the Member of Parliament wants to call 8 400 jobs into question for bees, if we draw them on bottles. That's not true. I would like to be portrayed here as the Member of Parliament, who is asking you most urgently for a plan of action not to allow that transitional period to last for three years, but to see how it can be done faster. This innovation can therefore go faster and the jobs can be transformed into innovative jobs. Therefore, we must not touch these 8 400 jobs, nor should we call nature policy into question. I'll keep following that up. Muriel Gerkens (Ecolo-Groen): I would just like to add, as chairman of the committee and because you have quoted me, that we are also victims of a functioning which we sometimes adopt in this committee as well. Texts on neonicotinoids as well as resolutions come from the opposition, and we are trying to work on them, as in 2016, notably by introducing a provision granting three years. This text has still not been approved because there was a desire, within the majority and among the representatives of the cabinet, to always wait for Europe to decide, and first to know what would happen at that level. The problem is that when things happen at European level, it is too late to be able to change something. I therefore invite us to dare to produce our texts. In 2016, if we had adopted the proposal with the three-year amendment, it would have stimulated our businesses and farmers to turn to alternatives. These are, of course, Belgium's positions at European level. That is the meaning of the resolutions. But if we do not give ourselves this opportunity to be proactive through resolutions, we will be faced with endless delays. It is almost unacceptable to wait three more years. When you read that you have to wait, you wait. However, I understand your willingness to move the industry forward. I am also speaking to the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u87	At the end of February, Minister, you informed us that you asked the BFSA for an opinion on the possible toxicity of the different types of bisphenol. Several studies have for years pointed to the damaging effects on our health of bisphenols in all kinds of products. Have you received the advice of the BFSA? After all, you talked about it in the short term. If not, when will you receive the advice? If you have the opinion, will you share it with Parliament? What are the main elements and conclusions in this? Have you requested any other advice from other agencies? When will EFSA have completed its assessment? Will you take another legislative initiative to reduce exposure to this carcinogenic substance? You know that Ecolo-Green has a legislative proposal in place. It is always said that we are still waiting for advice. You are one of the ministers who has asked for and promised an opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u88	I would first like to draw your attention to the fact that this is not an opinion of the BFSA but of the Scientific Committee, an advisory body of the BFSA. This committee is composed of external experts. This application is currently being examined. The Committee will have to give its opinion during the second semester of 2018. However, this is a relatively limited subject which needs to be analysed. This opinion will, of course, be delivered to Parliament. I confirm that at this stage the dossier was only submitted to the Scientific Committee of the BFSA. According to EFSA, there is no precise timing at the time when it will have the re-evaluation of BPA. You can be sure that I will take the necessary measures with regard to the advice that the Scientific Committee of the BFSA will give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u89	Minister, the second semester of 2018 is this autumn. I expect the advice by then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u90	One more clarification, Minister. It is known that the rules for bisphenol are different for food containers, plant protection products, etc. Is there a specific sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u91	The AFSCA Scientific Committee was asked for an opinion on the most widely used bisphenols A and S but also on alternatives. We did not want to limit ourselves to the bisphenol range.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u92	In food containers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u93	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u94	Madam President, Minister, in Tilligte in the Netherlands, fipronil was once again found in eggs from a chicken farmer. The infection was detected by a sample of the eggs delivered by the chicken farmer to a supermarket in the Netherlands. As a result, the holder had to kill 3 000 chickens and destroy 45 000 eggs. It is the second time in nine months that the farmer concerned has been affected by such a disaster. Mr Minister, was there any consultation between the Belgian and Dutch authorities on this new fipronil case? Is it known which company used or supplied the fipronil in the chicken farm and from where it came from? Is that firm also active in Belgium? If so, have the activities of that company already been mapped out in Belgium? Have any additional controls been carried out by the Food Agency?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u95	Madam President, Minister, I have a similar question based on the same facts. The chicken farmer from the Dutch Tilligte, who was hit for the second time, has a hypothesis himself, namely that the remains of fipronil in the manure of the previous chickens must have been in the soil of the meadow. If the chickens walk out during the day and peck into the ground, fipronil can end up in the stable. I have the following questions. Has the BFSA had contact with its Dutch sister organisation about this? What information did you get there? Is the farmer's hypothesis of the possible form of infection correct? If that is the case, this can of course also be the case with Belgian chicken farmers. Did you know about that? Is that also a plausible cause for fipronil here? Were the eggs of this Dutch egg farmer exported to our country? Were they extra-checked? Finally, how do you guarantee that our consumers will not get infected eggs on their plates?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u96	Minister, I am not going to go back to the context, especially since the facts, you have provided some answers as to whether or not you are present in Belgium. I will limit my question. I was surprised, however, that your main message was to recall the responsibility of the players in the chain, their responsibility for self-control over the presence of substances, and the examinations and analyses to be carried out. Of course, it is important to say so. At the same time, however, it is essential for AFSCA to act beyond self-control. You spoke earlier about your request for a permanent review of all eggs. You bring here an element of answer. The second question concerns breeding soils. This is not the first time that there is talk of contamination of eggs or meat because hens are pinging on soil that has been contaminated, sometimes in the past, and sometimes several years before, under other modes of production. The persistence of some of these substances in the soil or in the air really challenges us. DDT, which has been banned for a long time, is still found in some soil structures, and sometimes even in the air. I think there really are investigations to be done. Is it possible, Minister, to generalise and systematize the examination of the nature of the soil on farms, particularly open-air farms?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u97	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, the discovery on the Dutch chicken farm is not a new infection with fipronil but a local recontamination. The BFSA reminds me that the chickens have picked up fipronil again in the stables or on the outskirts that were polluted by the feces of the previous production round last summer. This shows in particular the importance of proper cleaning of a plant contaminated with fipronil. This underlines, once again, that the Belgian authorities have made the right choice by providing financial support to Belgian poultry farms through a compensation mechanism which the House unanimously adopted last autumn. In this context, we also financed the cleaning. If problems persist elsewhere, it is because the sector has not been helped as it has been in Belgium, but not only for this reason. The service undertaking active in the poultry sector which last year treated the poultry holding concerned with fipronil has been identified. This is the main suspect in the Dutch side of the case. All the Belgian contacts of this service company active in the poultry sector have already been identified, blocked and investigated last summer. Since then, this company has rightly not been more active. In total, approximately 73 000 eggs from the Netherlands and contaminated with fipronil control were recalled to Germany. As soon as this information was received, the BFSA, on my initiative, asked all professional sectors working with eggs to continue to ensure that their products conform, especially if they work with eggs from the Netherlands. In parallel, you're right, self-control is one thing. But I did not ask, following the fipronil crisis, that we rely solely on self-control. I have asked for an active monitoring of the AFSCA and I hear, even if today we have controlled everything through it, that we continue to monitor. I have asked AFSCA to make proposals in this context, in order to continue to ensure, as we have done since the fipronil crisis, that the eggs present on the Belgian market are in conformity. So far, analyses of various residues of banned biocides, including fipronil, indicate that the eggs tested in our country are all compliant. These analyses will continue in the coming weeks. I asked AFSCA for proposals. Let us be clear: we do not only monitor fipronil; we go beyond and monitor the presence of a whole spectrum of products tested in the analyses. Fipronil is one thing, but there may also be use, in some cases, of other products that could be dangerous. We're not just testing eggs from the fipronil angle. In view of the persistent problem in the Netherlands, I wanted to have contacts at the last European Council with the Dutch delegation. I asked him to further strengthen the collaboration between the two agencies. Our agency should be informed as soon as possible if new problems arise. In addition, our liaison officer will be present in The Hague to attend an even more in-depth meeting with his counterparts in the Netherlands next week. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u98	One more small question, Minister. I am pleased that there is consultation and such, but I have not heard in your long story whether there is any knowledge that this company from the Netherlands has also delivered to Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u99	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Lester. I have no further questions at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u100	Mrs Lambrecht, I answered you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u101	Mr Minister, the reason for my question was that on 27 March 2018 there was an update of the general circular on the law of 26 May 2002. The latest full update dated 2015. There are, of course, several adjustments. In this way, different actors were responded to. One of the issues was the reform of the rules on residence abroad, to prevent abuse and to ensure the necessary uniformity with other social legislation. As you know, we have always been very much in favour of this. The Programme Act of 15 December 2015 states that every person entitled to a living wage may stay abroad for a maximum of 4 weeks a year. This was a logical adjustment, as people with a living wage also have to demonstrate their will to activate. If the beneficiary's residence is longer than 1 week, he or she must inform the OMCW in advance. That's how it was formulated. This leads to a lack of clarity. After all, if that period is less than 1 week, the OMCW should apparently not be informed. The obligation to notify applies only from a stay of 7 or more consecutive days. This is also the definition of a week according to the circular letter: 7 consecutive days. This is then converted into calendar weeks. For example, a person who spends 13 days abroad is only charged one week. A person who spends 15 days abroad is then charged 2 weeks, and so on. Anyone who exceeds four weeks can be suspended for the duration of this overrun. Again, it's good that this reason for suspension is there. It is also important for a person entitled to a living wage to demonstrate his willingness to work. But I still have some questions about the calculation of those weeks. 1 week is charged per 7 consecutive days. 13 days would then be charged as 1 week. How will you avoid this leading to abuse in the reporting? How are you going to change that? The aim of the legislation was to ensure uniformity with other social legislations. As far as I know, there is no question at all of a 52 calendar days absence as 4 weeks. The OMCW should also be notified only from 7 consecutive days, so at 6 days there is no notification at all. Isn't it more logical that the customer would always inform the OCMW in advance when he goes abroad, on the one hand, not to compromise his willingness to work, on the other, so that the OCMWs could keep the overview? After all, on repeated leave, the need could be questioned. Which working tools can you offer to better control this? This does not entirely reassure me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u102	Mrs Van Peel, reminding you, the amendment of the legislation on residence abroad requires the OCMW to report each stay abroad for more than one week and also provides for the suspension of the payment of the living wage for stays exceeding 4 weeks per calendar year, except in exceptional circumstances. Any stay of one or more weeks must therefore be reported to the OMCW. The text of the circular of 12 January 2016, which specifies the Programme Act, was included in the General Letter on Social Integration. For the purposes of that text, "week' means a period of seven consecutive days. You are talking about a possible mandatory notification to the OCMW of each stay, regardless of its duration. In the context of the examination of the preliminary draft programme law, the Council of State gave an opinion in which it stated that a general obligation to inform any stay abroad, whatever its duration, cannot be regarded as a necessary control measure or as a proportionate control measure. According to the Council of State, such a measure would constitute an excessive obstacle to the individual's freedom of movement and the right to the free movement of citizens within the Union. On that basis, and in order to respect the principle of proportionality which the Council of State put forward, it was decided to impose a reporting obligation on the OMCW only for the stays abroad of one or more weeks. Finally, as regards your question about the harmonisation of the various social services systems, the Social Integration PPS is currently developing contacts with other branches of social security and social assistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u103	Madam President, Minister, it is remarkable that the Social Integration PPS is now making these connections for the first time. However, I remain left with questions. I understand the Council of State's advice was what it was. It's not called advice for nothing. I do not understand how it can be said that this would not be a proportionate measure, while unemployment benefits are based on a very different logic. However, the number of days of leave to be taken will be taken into account effectively. I therefore maintain that there can be no reason why a person should demonstrate his willingness to work for unemployment benefit if he has to demonstrate that same willingness to work for the benefit of a living wage. Why is there a difference? I understand, of course, that an exception mechanism has also been introduced. I think that is also right, because not every living wage client needs to demonstrate that willingness to work. There are many things for which an exception can be requested. In my opinion, the basic principle must be very similar. I'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u104	Minister, on 29 May, investigators from the Brussels court invaded the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain. They did so as part of a judicial investigation following a suspicion that incorrect information about the infected eggs was spread in 2017. In what way and at what time were you informed about the search at the BFSA? Were you already aware of any irregularities at the BFSA regarding the fipronil dossier? At what time and from whom did this information come if you had previously received information?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u105	My question is the same: it was reported that on May 29, AFSCA was being searched by the Brussels courts. The prosecution confirmed this search by the investigating judge and in the presence of the Public Prosecutor's Office, saying that "the judicial file concerns suspicions of the dissemination of false information concerning the contamination of eggs by fipronil during the year 12017". With respect to this search, do you have any more complete elements on his motives? How is the procedure going? What follow-up are you going to give?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u106	Mr Minister, I will not introduce my questions anymore, as the previous speakers have already done so extensively. I'll come straight to my questions. Mr Minister, since when have you been aware that there is a judicial investigation into the communication of the BFSA during the fipronil crisis? Who informed you of this? Are you considering taking steps yourself, for example to set you up as a bourgeois party? I also have a question about the two audits you ordered. Although you may have already mentioned this in previous answers, I would like to ask you to tell us when you expect the results of those audits. Do you also take into account that developments in the fipronil dossier can have an impact on our Belgian egg companies? A newspaper reported this week that consumers have changed their buying behaviour as they buy more organic eggs. Will you continue to support the egg sector in the further developments in the fipronil dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u107	Mr Minister, I will skip the introduction, but I would like to say that the agency has received a lot of criticism because it has communicated badly and too late. Well, that raises some questions, doesn't it? The court wants to know whether wrong information was disseminated or not. I understand that you take note of the searches and that the court must do its job. I agree with the questions put by my fellow Members. Could you give me some more details on that? What do you expect from the final completion of the investigation? What results are there yet? What irregularities were investigated?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u108	I heard, as you did on 29 May last in the morning, that there was a search on the seat of the BFSA. A second search took place on 7 June. The separation of powers is an extremely important principle of our democracy. The same applies to the secret of the investigation. As a result, I do not have any elements that I can communicate at this stage. It is not for me, moreover, to comment on an ongoing judicial investigation. Otherwise, I must refer you to the Minister of Justice. I have said this on several occasions: AFSCA is an important tool for the consumer, for food security, for the agricultural sector as well. Justice must carry out its tasks. Mine, as a political and departmental leader, is to ensure the structural effectiveness of the tool. For this reason, you referred to it, Mrs Dierick, that two audits of the Agency were, as you know, initiated on my proposal, with the support of the government. The audit of the internal functioning and structures of the AFSCA shall be carried out in an existing framework agreement. With regard to the audit of the control policy, the control process and the control procedures, the tender is closed and the audit firm has been selected. In particular, these audits will represent an opportunity to analyse in more detail the relationship between AFSCA and justice, in terms of communication and collaboration between these two authorities. As I undertook to do so in front of your assembly, these two audits will have to be completed by the end of the summer. On the basis of the conclusions thus reached, I will take all the necessary measures, with consumer protection as a priority objective. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u109	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'd like to give the colleagues a tip to buy time. If they put the question to the Minister of Justice, they will also be told that there is separation of powers and secrecy from the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u110	Minister, we know that there is a separation of powers and that there is the secrecy of the investigation. In addition, audits were requested on internal operations and control policies. Nevertheless, the fact that a food safety authority is accused, according to the prosecutor's office itself, of having given false information on the contamination of eggs by fipronil is inapplicable. It is no longer a question of delay, but it is a question of false information. At least that's what the prosecution says in the press. I expected to have some additional information, particularly on the causes, without betraying the secrecy of the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u111	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think there is much point in asking Minister Geens additional questions, since the answer will be identical. Of course, we have to wait for the results of the investigation, but in itself it raises many questions that there is a judicial investigation and that searches are carried out at the BFSA. I'd like to point that out without pointing the finger at anyone. We await the result. We are also very curious about the results of the audits that have been ordered. I understand those audits would be ready by the end of the summer. I'm looking forward to that. I also hope that we can discuss these audits in full transparency in this committee and that we can also discuss them with the BFSA.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u112	Madam President, there is still little to add. Minister, I would have asked you when you expected the results to be known. I can imagine that you are still in touch with that other part of the separation of powers and that you can at least give us a timing. Madam President, since the audits are so often referred to, and since the Minister also often refers to them, I suggest that you reserve a full day to discuss their results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u113	All the time we want. We will organize our work according to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u114	Madam President, I can hear you well, but I would make a mistake, as the minister responsible, by commenting on the searches or the elements of the investigation. I don't know what some people expected, but I have to respect the separation of powers and the secrecy of the investigation. That said, audits are one thing, but I will prepare reforms that incorporate the recommendations. We can take the time you want for audits – and it will be interesting to have the return of parliamentarians in this framework – but the essential phase for me will be the construction of the elements of reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u115	Of course, we will also put our energy into it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u116	The following are audit-related issues. Do they really have to be laid down? I think we already have the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u117	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Madam President, since there are so many questions from both the majority and the opposition, I would ask you to set a date for further discussion in committee before the recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u118	I have already said at least three times that we are going to organize things after September 21.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u119	I note that we will meet on this subject on 21 September at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u120	You get it. In the North as in the South, autumn begins on the same date. So it will be on 21 September, at the end of the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u121	We will meet after that date. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it would be desirable for us to be aware of this audit before we begin discussions on this matter. Since no parliamentarian will be in the election campaign, we will be able to take the time to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u122	Madam President, since Mrs Smaers cannot be present, I will ask some of her questions. Minister, on Wednesday 30 May, the Geel slaughterhouse was closed with immediate effect. The reason for the closure of the slaughterhouse would be the hygiene and infrastructure problems. At the end of 2017, the BFSA already wanted to close the slaughterhouse. At that time, however, a plan of action was developed by the slaughterhouse with additional investments, increased self-control and additional staff. In March 2018, the BFSA found that the results of that plan of approach and the investments were not yet sufficiently clear. The opinion was then obtained from the professional committee within the BFSA on the possible closure, which gave a positive opinion. In other words, she stated that the slaughterhouse of Geel could remain open. However, you, Minister, gave that positive advice and decided to instruct the BFSA to close the slaughterhouse. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions, Minister. You can also give me the figures in writing, if that's easier. How often has the Geel slaughterhouse been controlled by the BFSA over the past five years? How long has there been problems with hygiene and infrastructure? Can you give more concrete information on what these problems are and where they are? If the BFSA wanted to close at the end of 2017, why could the slaughterhouse still remain open for the last five months? What are the reasons why the BFSA was still not convinced of keeping the slaughterhouse open in March 2018? What were the elements on the basis of which the Appeals Committee gave a positive opinion on keeping the slaughterhouse open? What was in the advice she gave you? Who is on the Board of Appeal and how is the procedure going? On the basis of what elements did you ask for the closure of the slaughterhouse at the BFSA? Then what elements of the favourable opinion of the Committee of the Regions did you disagree with? The BFSA has not yet started a recall of products coming from the slaughterhouse. If there are problems with hygiene, will this not affect the quality and safety of the products from the slaughterhouse? In what circumstances would the BFSA be able to proceed to such a recall? Who worked out the plan of action? Was the BFSA involved in this? Can you provide an analysis of the plan of approach at the end of 2017 and why certain adjustments were late or insufficient? What investments has the slaughterhouse made and what should follow? The 159 employees of the slaughterhouse in Geel are temporarily unemployed. Have you been in contact with the Minister for Employment to see to what extent these workers can benefit from unemployment benefit? Was there any consultation with the slaughterhouse? Those are a lot of questions and I hope you have a lot of answers for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u123	Madam President, Minister, the Council of State is suspending your decision to close the slaughterhouse in Geel. You made that decision at the end of May because of the problems with hygiene and infrastructure, but according to the Council of State the decision deviates from a favourable advice from the BFSA. According to the Council of State, insufficient account is taken of the efforts made by the slaughterhouse to respond to the criticism. According to the Council of State, the closure of the slaughterhouse in Geel would also be insufficiently justified. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. In what areas did your decision differ from the favourable opinion of the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain? The Council of State considers that your decision is not sufficiently reasoned. What conclusions do you draw from this for dealing with such cases in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u124	Mr Minister, on 11 June the Council of State indeed suspended your decision to close the slaughterhouse in Geel. That's a remarkable event, isn't it? Your decision departed from a favourable advice from the BFSA and was not sufficiently motivated. In the text of the question I tabled, I quoted the opinion literally. I won't repeat that quote. The abattoir of Geel fought your own decision. What was your motivation to take the advice of the BFSA next to you? What information did you have that the BFSA didn't have? Do I have reason to believe that there has been a breach of trust between you and the BFSA? According to the Council of State, you have not sufficiently justified your decision. How will you avoid such a thing in the future? My last question was again about audits. I'll drop it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u125	The first one that still says audit...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u126	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there have been recurrent infringements in the slaughterhouse since 1 January 2016. These were included in several warnings and minutes. Following these many findings, the BFSA announced in December 2017 that it intended to withdraw the approval of the slaughterhouse, as provided for in the Royal Decree of 16 January 2006. During the first stage of the procedure, the operator has several possibilities to resolve the identified deficiencies within a reasonable period of time. This translates into the elaboration of the action plan between the operator and the BFSA. Different deadlines were foreseen in the March 2018 Action Plan. In accordance with this procedure, the BFSA carries out an inspection every time one of the deadlines is reached. During the inspections following the expiry of the first deadline, several infringements were again identified. I'll give you some of the violations. For example, hygiene in the slaughterhouse was not properly applied. For example, the sink on the calf slaughter floor was not operational. Carcasses and offal were identified. The BFSA, and you remember the facts established by an operator in Bastenaken, has also identified a problem with the identification of Category 2 and Category 3 waste. In concrete terms, pieces of meat unfit for human consumption would have been found in the bins intended for edible meat. This non-conformity, established by a new check carried out in March 2018, led to the closure of the slaughterhouse. Given the seriousness of the facts, I could only confirm the withdrawal of the recognition, as requested by the DGC of the BFSA. Mrs Dedry, the DGC of the BFSA and the Professional Commission are two different bodies. I have therefore chosen to follow the opinion of the DGC rather than the opinion of the committee, given the seriousness of the determination. As you know, the operator has lodged an appeal for suspension with the Council of State. The latter has suspended the decision to withdraw. In view of the seriousness of the facts, I could of course confirm the withdrawal of the recognition, as requested by the BFSA, even if I deviated from the other advice of the Professional Committee. I have written to the BFSA to ask them to ensure in the future that the decisions are more legally substantiated. This aspect will also be the subject of the ongoing audit. Mrs Dierick, as you yourself say, the question of the unemployment of the employees of the Geel slaughterhouse falls within the competence of the Minister for Labour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u127	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. For the sake of clarity, if there are problems in terms of hygiene and serious infringements, we expect and want the BFSA to take firm action and, of course, we do not take any risks with our public health. What is not immediately clear to me is the difference between DG Control and the Appeals Committee. They have both given contradictory advice and you, as a minister, have to decide which advice you follow. It is not clear to me what the tasks of both organisms are. They both seem to have different powers. I would have liked to have seen that clarified.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u128	Minister, I agree with Mrs Dierick's question. I, too, would like to make a few comments. Nor have I been given an answer to my question as to how you will in future avoid an opinion from the Council of State that you have not sufficiently motivated.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u129	Mrs. Dedry, I don't know how I could be clearer. I told you that there is DG Control, which is one instance, and the Appeals Committee, which is another. DG Control requests withdrawal. The Commission, for its part, issues an advisory opinion calling for the withdrawal to be suspended. As far as I am concerned, I prefer to follow DG Control's request for withdrawal, given the elements of the file that I have reminded you and which are quite obvious. I have indicated to you that there are questions about finding Category 2 and Category 3 products in containers that would have been intended for human consumption. This is a statement she made in the course of her checks. I therefore prefer to follow the request of the Control DG of the AFSCA, even if an advisory opinion has been given to me by the Appeals Board.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u130	Minister, that is clear. As you suggest when referring to your audit, the cooperation between the services is apparently not really oiled and can be improved. So the audit is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u131	I do not agree again with what you say about collaboration. No. There are the services of the AFSCA, with the various Directorates-General, including DG Control, and there is a Board of Appeal. Moreover, it will have to evolve in line with the reforms. But the Appeals Board is not an AFSCA department. The Board of Appeal is an appeal body. It plays its role as a counterweight, as a counter-power. However, her opinion was advisory and she analysed the files. Here, in this case, it was very clear. In my view, the opinion of DG Control had to be followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u132	Ms. Muriel Gerkens' questions were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u133	Madam President, Minister, the story of salmonella infection in Traiteur Esthio was discussed extensively in plenary and in the media. We've been looking for the cause of the infection for a long time, but the source hasn't been found. It caused a lot of ping-pong. The most important fact was that a number of schools were affected, and my question is mainly about this, especially since communication was not very good. Firstly, it seems that it takes a very long time to know what the source of such salmonella infection is. More than 400 children were affected and that is striking. Can you give me any explanation as to how the detection process is going? What's taking the detection so long? Are there any extra checks for school meals? Who has the final responsibility over the chain of controls of these meals? In other words, what path does everything that ends up on a blackboard? What control mechanisms have been incorporated? My final question is about the conflicting communication between you and the BFSA. We have seen an example of this in plenary. A lot of schools couldn't tell the kids until Wednesday night, at 10:00 p.m., that the delivery of hot meals wasn't yet in order. You had given your consent in plenary, but the schools should have heard this through the media. So it's all been miserable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u134	Mr Minister, I would like to reply to my colleague's questions on salmonella poisoning. By the end of May several children from primary schools were infected with salmonella. For the cause was looked towards the caterer of the school meals, Esthio from Harelbeke. The BFSA took a large number of samples from that catering company, but none of the substances or meals analysed showed traces of salmonella. The catering company received the green light from the BFSA on Friday afternoon 1 June to restart the production of its hot meals from Monday 4 June, albeit for the companies. For the schools, the start-up was allowed on Thursday 7 June 2018 at the earliest; exactly on that date the plenary session in question took place. For the cold meals, the company had to wait until the research scent for cold vegetables was finished, why the BFSA talked about a waiting period of two weeks. On Wednesday 6 June, the company started preparing to deliver hot meals again for the many school children on Thursday. It was not until Wednesday evening that emails were sent to the schools and the company via email addresses that the company itself had delivered to you or your services that the schools and the company were not allowed to be delivered to the schools on Thursday 7 June. Minister, when did you take note of the decision of the BFSA that the catering company Esthio could restart delivery to the schools? None of the samples from the catering company Esthio contained traces of salmonella. On the basis of what information did you decide to withdraw the decision of the BFSA? What results of which samples were you waiting for? Did those samples relate directly to the activities of the catering company Esthio, or did they come from a sub-contractor? Thirdly, if you were waiting for the results of the cold steel vegetables, why did you not find the BFSA's decision to restart the hot meals correct? Finally, with all due respect for the safety of the children, the company has also suffered economic damage due to the late communication of your cabinet and its image was damaged once again. How will the company be compensated for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u135	Minister, these are a number of follow-up questions following my question in plenary on 7 June. We were all surprised that suddenly hot meals were not allowed to be delivered. You then informed us that you were still waiting for a final analysis, that you didn't want to take any risks and that you therefore decided that Esthio shouldn't deliver to schools yet. During the plenary session we received the news that the results were good and that the deliveries could therefore start back. In itself that was good news but that there were still analyses behind it was actually a new fact. That raises a number of questions. I would now like to ask you my specific questions. Was the BFSA aware that any final analyses were being carried out? This is the analysis you referred to in the plenary session of 7 June. Then why did the BFSA communicate on Friday 1 June that it gave the green light to restart while apparently not all the results were yet known? Is the fact that the BFSA wanted to give the green light discussed with you in advance? When were you informed that the BFSA wanted Esthio to restart? It is strange that analyses are still being carried out, the result of which is not yet known and which is already being approved. Would it not have been better to say that there would be a green light provided the results of the ongoing analyses were positive? They would then know that they were still subject to conditions. Now it was assumed that there was immediate green light to deliver meals. So that could have been communicated better. I also found it strange that the housing centres could be delivered but not to the schools. After all, not only children are a high-risk target group, but also the elderly are a risk group that we must keep in mind. So why the distinction? Can you also tell us when the BFSA was informed of these latest results and you gave permission to Esthio to restart? When was the BFSA informed about this? How was the company itself informed? According to the information we have, they just got it through the media. How did you inform the company itself? Finally, there is also the question of compensation. The schools have had to incur additional costs, but this certainly applies to the company Esthio. Ten thousand meals had to be thrown into the trash. Will there be a reward for them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u136	Mrs Dierick, Mrs Dedry, Mr Top, I have indeed already answered these questions in plenary on 7 June. I'm a little surprised that this is being dealt with again, but okay. As you know, on 24 May the BFSA closed the company Esthio. It did so after the delivery of dishes infected with salmonella. 43 schools in West and East Flanders were involved. I hear more than 450 children were infected. Some were even hospitalized. Many samples were taken to determine the origin of this salmonella infection. In this case, the Agency provided for three stages to be taken up by the operator. On Monday, June 4th, there was the withdrawal of the delivery to companies. Secondly, on Friday, 7 June, the supply to the schools which were not affected by the contamination, with the obligation to meet certain specific conditions. Thirdly, supplies to schools affected by the contagion should not be re-established until a later date and according to very precise procedures. However, on 6 June, at the end of the day, the results of the available tests could still not indicate the source of the infection. Based on the precautionary principle and because children are a group at risk, I asked the BFSA not to let the delivery to school refters by the company concerned take over and wait for the results of the latest important tests. Of course, I was sensitive to the situation of this company, which, by the way, cooperated perfectly with the BFSA, but it is more than probably responsible for the infection. After all, all contaminated schools received deliveries from Esthio. So I wanted to make a decision in the light of all the tests. It seemed to me that it was essential to have the results before the revival of the activities with the school refters allowed. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that from Monday 4 June the company was able to deliver again to its customers who are companies because it had introduced an action plan in its premises. Unlike children, adults, except for exceptions, are less at risk. If the results of the tests on the salads had confirmed the presence of salmonella, the source would have been known, which would have made it possible to assure all parents and their children that all other foods could be eaten without risk. The results turned out to be negative. Every effort was therefore made to identify the origin of salmonella. No other measures could be taken, as the BFSA and Sciensano also confirmed to me. Once I have obtained the information, on Thursday afternoon, the operators were informed by the BFSA about the lifting of the measure applicable to them. Finally, I would like to stress that the BFSA played its role perfectly in this dossier. However, I am not the janitor of the Agency. However, as a politically responsible person, I felt it necessary for the BFSA to take a decision on the basis of the results of all important tests. If I had not decided to proceed in this way, some of you would have blamed me. I understand the inconvenience for the schools and the parents. However, since it was about children, I wanted to be particularly careful. Salmonella is not a cold; it still causes deaths in Europe. According to a report by Santé publique France for the period 2008 to 2013, this is even the first cause of death and the second cause of hospitalisation due to food poisoning. Furthermore, I keep available the details of the checks carried out by the BFSA in the schools in 2017 in the form of a table. Finally, the frequency of checks is linked to the type of operator. The central large kitchens that prepare and supply meals to other large kitchens, such as schools, are inspected once every two years. The same frequency is applied to schools that prepare their own meals. Schools that only purchase and serve meals are checked once every three years. The frequency is, of course, determined on the basis of a risk analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u137	Minister, I have a very brief reply. First, you answer that the BFSA played its role perfectly. It is therefore all the more surprising that the communication of you, the politically responsible, and of the BFSA is falling apart. Secondly, I agree with the other questioners that older people in a residential care centre are as vulnerable as children in terms of criterion and sensitivity. I do not understand why one group, which is equally vulnerable, has been given a go and not the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u138	Madam President, Minister, I would first like to confirm your statement, but it will be the last on which I share your opinion on this matter. It is true that the necessary care should be taken with regard to salmonella. Poisoning salmonella, both in children and older people, but also in adults, is very dangerous. I have spoken with doctors who have taken note of salmonella poisoning in the schools concerned. So I'm pretty sure I know what's going on here. You say, on the other hand, that the BFSA has done its job perfectly. I'm putting this in addition to your statement today. You said that the company in question could not deliver until Friday. That is not true if you look at the mail from the BFSA. I'm literally reading the mail. The mail was sent by the BFSA on Friday 1 June 2018 at 15.38 p.m. There are therefore a number of additional conditions in relation to the company and "school conditions, communication to all schools, at the earliest once again delivery on Thursday. Pending this, the schools themselves must take action." So indeed, the infected schools had to take action. I continue to read: "All schools (kitchen, refters, sanitary facilities, cleaning and disinfection), everything, infrastructure and material, remove all open packaging." In connection with the schools with infections: "Schools with sick, first completely cleanse and disinfect (approved disinfectant or bleach), plus written confirmation to the BFSA and Esthio that everything has been cleaned and disinfected. Only after delivery by Esthio." The last paragraph says: "Reopening Esthio. From Monday 4 June: reopening for delivery to companies. For schools without sick persons: not earlier than Thursday 7 June.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u139	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u140	That's a big difference. These are 20 000 meals that have been lost and, moreover, the schools had to find a solution at the very last minute for the children who did not have a meal the next day. For schools with sick people, this was not until Thursday 7 June, with the additional condition that these schools had to confirm in writing that everything had been cleaned and disinfected. So that makes a big difference, Thursday or Friday. I asked a question about where and which additional samples still had to be examined at and around the company itself. You shut down the company again on Wednesday night and didn't let the delivery continue. I wonder what reason that was. You didn't give a specific reason. No cause has yet been found today, unfortunately. It would have been easier if the cause had been found. I keep hammering on the following two points. First, there was discomfort for the schools during the period when Esthio was not allowed to deliver. The schools have had to turn to other suppliers. In particular, I mention the fact that the school directories were not informed by e-mail until late on Wednesday evening. Another lucky thing is that Esthio told you the addresses, otherwise you couldn't even notify the school directories. Secondly, I mention the company itself. The company suffered economic damage for the first time at the end of May because it had to be shut down. On Wednesday evening, 6 June, it was once again beaten by the announcement that permission was denied to supply schools, while there was no reason to do so, at least without you giving a reason. That is why, Minister, I would like to add the question of how the economic damage of that company will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u141	Minister, I agree with you that salmonella infection is not a cold. It's a dangerous phenomenon. Given the number of infections in the children, this had to be looked at with great caution. I note a number of things from your answer. First of all, you say the BFSA played its role perfectly. Secondly, I understand that the additional tests referred to by Mr Top were on the salad, which was not from Esthio. That wasn't clear to me before. It was communicated that there were no samples anymore, but Esthio was not allowed to produce, I note. Thirdly, the re-supply was gradual. The first step was to deliver to companies, including residential care centres. Delivering to the schools went according to what you said under certain modalities. In my opinion, however, this has never been communicated to the schools or to Esthio. Fourthly, I believe that my question concerning the reimbursement of schools and of Esthio has not been answered. If you have any information on the matter, I would like to hear it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u142	I would remind you that I am also Minister for SMEs. As such, it is sometimes difficult to make decisions such as the one in question. But, in my opinion, it is necessary – and I think we agree on this point: there have been no more salmonella-related deaths in Belgium for at least ten years, if my memory is good. In any case, salmonella is still dying in Europe. This is particularly the case in our French neighbours where children have died of this infection. In the present case, forty-three schools in two Flemish provinces are affected with four hundred and fifty intoxicated children, several of whom have had to be hospitalized. When children are affected in this way, it is necessary to put all the assets on our side to identify the origin of the infection. However, this could not be done. Let's put ourselves in the place of parents whose children have been intoxicated. It is important for these families to know that every effort has been made to identify the source of the problem that sent their child to the hospital. I say it again. There is no formal evidence that identifies the company as the source of salmonella. Nevertheless, the forty-three contaminated schools were delivered by the company. The decision I wanted to make in this area was to wait for all the important tests to come out. You don't agree, Mr. Top? Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u143	Mr. Top, I'll give you 30 seconds to reply. We are in the context of an oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-26-54-commissie-ic934x.u144	Madam President, I am sorry, but questions and answers have taken longer than 30 seconds all morning. Minister, I do not agree with you. Let me explain to you why. You have indicated that the BFSA has run a perfect course here in its advice and in the follow-up of the file. The BFSA has given the company permission to deliver according to the conditions it has indicated in the email. You'll be back from abroad in the course of Wednesday. I don't know how communication with the service went. You have decided, on the basis of something we do not know, to withdraw the consent. That's what this is about: you flagged back the BFSA. I want to know on the basis of what facts you made that decision. After all, the cause is still unknown.
