ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic969x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ben Hamou has requested the postponement of her question No 26129 and questions No 26385 by Mrs Fonck and No 26773 by Mr Hedebouw are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic969x.u2	Madam Secretary of State, in April I asked you a question about transgender regulation, which was violated in a number of cities. You then told me that you should have a meeting with Minister None. In a few months' time, you would give me an answer, but all sorts of besognes didn't get it sooner. Have you had any meetings in the meantime? What's the result of that? Any sign of it on the premises yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic969x.u3	Mrs Jiroflée, I would first of all like to thank you for your questions on the issue of the transgender law. You have always supported the drafting of the law, for which I thank you. I have had several contacts with Mr Geens on this matter, as I said in committee. The circular on the Law of 25 July 2017 on the reform of transgender arrangements as regards the indication of an adaptation of the registration of sex in civil status documents and their consequences, which was circulated from the new transgender law, was also addressed to the Attorney General. Both in this and in the information brochure it is clearly stated that the possibility for the King's Attorney to issue a negative opinion is very limited. It shall apply only if the declaration to adapt the sex registration is contrary to public policy. Meanwhile, the Civil Affairs expertise network of the College of Attorneys General has analysed the issue. They also consider that the King's Attorney should conduct the investigation discreetly. The person concerned may only be questioned if elements of fraud have come to light. In the meantime, it also appears that a lot of French-speaking public prosecutors have changed their methodology. In other words, there are no further far-reaching investigations under the transgender law with significant interference in private life. Both the Minister of Justice and myself have therefore personally no longer received complaints from citizens or organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic969x.u4	Madam Secretary of State, we are. We too have not received any complaints in recent months. We will, of course, continue to monitor the matter closely, and if there are any complaints, I will certainly report them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic969x.u5	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I have had the opportunity on several occasions to question the Minister of the Interior about the reception of police officers to victims of sexual violence. In the spring of 2016, four days of study on sexual violence, called "code 37", were organized at your initiative by the police. Approximately 1,000 police officers took part in this training. On 20 October 2017, specific training on the treatment of adults and minors with mental disabilities and victims of sexual violence was also organized for investigators TAM (Minors Hearing Technique). Madam Secretary of State, these initiatives are extremely positive and, in my view, must be multiplied. Victims regularly fear being misreceived, which sometimes leads them not to go to the police. Can you take stock of this situation? Do you have any specific studies on the subject? Do you intend to continue organizing such training in the future? If so, do you think there are elements that need to be improved? Lastly, should there be more communication with the general public in order to inform the greatest number that police services are increasingly being trained in the reception of victims of sexual violence? I would simply add, Madam Secretary of State, that what must above all be changed is the mentality of too many men who still regard sexual violence, at the limit, as a sort of great game!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic969x.u6	Dear colleague, the National Action Plan to Combat All Forms of Gender-Related Violence 2015-2019 (PAN), coordinated under my supervision by the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, pays particular attention to actions to ensure the training of professionals. In July, I sent Parliament the interim report on the implementation of this action plan. Within this framework, I will organize various trainings for police officers. As you indicated, in the spring of 2016, on my initiative, four days of study were organized for the police on sexual violence. About 1,000 police officers participated in this training called "code 37". During these days of study, the new road map "Delictions of Mors" was distributed to all those present. On 20 October 2017, once again at my initiative, the Federal Police organized specific training for police officers responsible for applying the Minor Hearing Technique (TAM). This training concerned the hearing of both minors and adults with intellectual disabilities who had been victims of sexual violence. At my request, the federal police will pay particular attention to this theme on the National TAM Training Day 2019. This national TAM day is organised four times so that all those responsible for the hearings have the opportunity to participate in the training. In November 2017, I also opened three sexual violence centres, which receive these victims free of charge 24 hours a day and 7 days a week and provide them with the greatest possible assistance. If they so wish, victims can also lodge complaints directly in the sexual violence centre with a team of two moral inspectors. These inspectors are also responsible for the filmed hearing. Of course, they have received specific training to do so. I entrusted the mission to the police areas concerned to organize this recognized training of sixty hours, followed by an evaluation. On this basis, an update could be carried out. The main objective was to incorporate data specific to each area. The recognition file did not have to be changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic969x.u7	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer, of which I will take three considerations. First of all, I am very pleased with your willingness to continue this effort, because unfortunately there will still be indecrettable people. Secondly, the increase in the presence of women in the police is, in my view, a means of changing attitudes. Indeed, it is well known that the police - like football - is one of the temples of Machism. You also recalled the extraordinary initiative of opening these three centres. I am all the more pleased that you want others to be born. The intermediate results, which doubled compared to the forecasts, demonstrated the urgency and necessity of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic969x.u8	This is actually hilarious. I saw names like Lanjri, Van Hees, Hedebouw, Delizee. You can stand your ground, Madam Secretary of State, I have no doubt. I agreed with this question to help you, but I see that it is not necessary because of the absence of anyone who thought this question was so important. You know what the government agreement says, Madam Secretary of State: we want to gradually increase the benefits, including welfare payments, to the poverty line. We want to take account of the social benefits, which are often forgotten when this pass is cited. You have taken steps in this, just like your predecessor. This government has done a great deal in this area. A disc of 100 million euros was foreseen. According to the Court of Auditors, this amount was reduced at the Council of Ministers on 30 March by savings, including 40 million from the poverty reduction envelope. These figures have been communicated on all sides, especially by the people who are absent today. This is an opportunity for you to tell us what is really going on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic969x.u9	Mr Delizée was selected because he chaired the Committee on the Economy. I haven't heard from anyone else.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic969x.u10	Mrs van Peel, thank you for your question and for your presence, because it will soon be local elections and some Members may have other priorities. However, I also regret that you are the only one present, because we have prepared a very detailed answer, because I think it is very important and because the people who claim that I would save on poverty policy do have a deontology with which I do not agree. Mrs van Peel, if you will allow me, I am going to reply in detail, because it gives me the opportunity to explain in detail my poverty policy and that of this government. And I hope that those Members who have asked these questions, who have also spoken very loudly in the media and who are not here, will read the answer in the report. There is indeed a great deal of confusion about the government's actions in the fight against poverty. The intellectual agility with which some colleagues have a recurrent increase in the lowest social benefits frames as a saving, is particularly resentful and deontologically very unswerving. Whoever does this scares people, fears that their benefits will fall, while this government is doing the opposite. But I understand that for a number of Members of this House, who are not there, it is an unpleasant thought that this so-called right-wing government is investing more than the previous left-wing government. There are more people at work and those who still have to rely on solidarity even get higher social benefits. These benefits will be increased by EUR 80 million a year. It is about 100 million, of which 20 million goes to single working parents for the tax deduction for childcare and 80 million to benefits. This period of government has already increased more than twice as much as the previous legislative period for wage-earners and disabled people with a family burden. I'd rather have the numbers baptized. For people living together it is 62 euros versus 31 euros during the Di Rupo government. For single people it is 93 euros, compared to 47 euros during the Di Rupo government. For people with a family burden it is 165 euros, compared to 63 euros during the previous government. If the implementation of the Summer Agreement had been speeded up, we would have been able to use that money this year. Everyone, however, also the coalition partners know that the search for an agreement had to look at what benefits would be increased. There's a certain vision behind that. The result has been delayed, which I regret myself, but that was why it was no longer feasible in budgetary terms this year. I am convinced that the government has made a good choice to focus on people with a family burden, on the lowest benefits, and on people with disabilities. For example, with part of the recurrent 80 million, we increased the income replacement allowance by EUR 40 per month for people with a family burden. In addition, we have increased integration for more than 165 000 people. Some will say that it is not enough or that it happened too late, but I would like to point out that it is the first increase for disabled people since 2003, in addition to the index increases. Since 2003, the disabled have received nothing extra. It may not be much, but it is already a good step forward for the people who are really struggling or having a hard time. Some of the resources from the broad Summer Agreement have been reserved to further reduce the so-called price of love. As you know, a person with a disability who lives with his or her partner loses his or her benefit very quickly because the partner has an income. That is why we increased the amount of exemption for the partner's income, giving people with disabilities living together up to 175 euros per month extra. You also know that this dossier was blocked for more than ten years. So I am very pleased that we have taken a great step forward with some coalition partners. This is not the end of this government's commitment. It is envisaged that an additional EUR 20 million per year will go to benefits by 2020 and an additional EUR 30 million from 2022. This is on top of the recurrent cost of 100 million. This fits in with this government's long-term strategy. Structural poverty reduction ignores the delusion of the day. You referred to the provision in the government agreement that the government is gradually increasing the minimum, which we are also doing effectively at the moment. We're sticking to the coalition agreement. As far as the distance from the poverty line is concerned, I will give you an overview for single people. For families and families with children, the poverty risk threshold depends on the specific family composition. In our modern world, there are many family types. For each type, an assumption should then be made of the income of the partners, the income of the resident parents and the income of the resident children. This is necessary in order to make an effective assessment of the distance from the benefit to the poverty risk threshold for a specific family. With regard to single people, the distance from the poverty line remains stable compared to the figures for 2016. This is evident from very recent figures released by the FPS Social Security Office. The estimates of the Social Security Office also indicate that the income guarantee for older people is still at 92 %. The living wage and the IVT remain at 75% of the poverty line. These figures also cover the situation in July 2018 without taking into account recent increases in benefits from the index adjustments. Moreover, this calculation does not take into account the impact of derived social rights or additional financial support granted locally by OCMWs. In reality, therefore, the distance will be smaller. We must also bear in mind that the European poverty threshold is a dynamic concept. As we are on average getting richer, the poverty threshold is also rising. In 2007, the risk-of-poverty threshold was 878 euros. In 2017, the poverty risk threshold was EUR 1 139. In a context of automation of labour and demographic change, such as more single parents and migration, which put pressure on our social system, the government is pursuing a realistic poverty policy, without turning a blind eye to simplisms and utopian thoughts. Those thoughts are good for the rich salons, but a person in poverty doesn't buy bread with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic969x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, I also hated the fact that an extra amount of money would be given to a recurrent if savings were framed. That's the world upside down. It was, of course, a budgetary technical adjustment. That was clear to me a long time ago. I think it is very good that you have made choices in the categories. With such a budget one should dare to do so, instead of always making very systematic increases. I also think, from my own experience, that you made the right choice there. Especially single parents with children have a much greater risk of poverty. For people with disabilities, it was also high time that something was added, because they have much less opportunity to change their situation. So I fully support the government's choices. I also note that, of course, we should not convince each other that it is nice to honk in the press, but a little less fun when one has to be here in the morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic969x.u12	Madam Secretary of State, this question concerns the inter-federal plan to combat racism. Acts of racism, racist behaviour or speech are observed in our society, especially by politicians. It is terrible to see that, in the countryside, on the French-speaking as well as the Dutch-speaking and Brussels-speaking side, unacceptable comments, videos and messages are used. More recently, a candidate in Andenne posted a video clip which I assume will have led to a complaint. This question is more focused on the follow-up to the discovery of Schild's true face in Vrienden. There were voices in favour of setting up an anti-racism plan. In this regard, you said that an anti-racism plan was not necessary, that it was not necessary, because there are already anti-racism laws. I think you used an expression like "an anti-terrorism plan" or "an integration plan". Madam Secretary of State, it is important to explain to us the reactions and measures and to tell us how the government agreement, which planned to act and even give priority to the fight against all forms of racism and incitement to hatred, is being implemented or can still be implemented, while taking into account the data of Unia and MRAX, which have registered an increasing number of complaints of racism. I would like to know how you intended to reconcile both the government statement, which advocates a plan and anti-racism measures, and your surprising statement that "this is not what this is about. Legislation already exists in this area."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic969x.u13	Mrs Gerkens, let me first thank you for your question. With regard to the action plan, I have always said that I will first look at the action plan against discrimination and violence against LGBTI people. This plan was launched before the summer. Then I started working on the social plan. This plan will go further than the Durban commitment. Our company has changed a lot in 17 years. The plan will therefore be adapted to current needs, which requires special attention to all forms of racism and the need to receive support from all communities. For the moment, I am working on the preparation of an environmental analysis. It is all the more necessary since there has never been a plan of action against racism. Although the commitment dates back to 2001, I can only say with you that this issue has never been a priority. This is often the case. The 2017 Anti-Discrimination Assessment (which is planned for 2012), the amendment of transgender legislation or the establishment of a federal equal opportunity administration in this government are due to be launched. This environmental analysis will provide an overview of the further implementation of the action plan. Drafting such a large new plan is obviously not a small deal. Indeed, the number of cases relating to racism has increased by 12% since last year at Unia. Is this increase due to the increased visibility of Unia and media attention or should it be concluded that the number of racist incidents is actually increasing? These figures describe the situation, but do not provide a causal link. Our country needs more objective and unique information. As I always say, racism exists and doubt is not allowed. Each of us, in all population groups, can reduce racism. On the other hand, everyone can also be a victim of racism. That is why it is important to move towards the creation of action plans against racism adapted to the present society. We will only be able to change the attitude towards racism, and therefore racist behaviour, by sweeping out our door and keeping our eyes open. Meanwhile, my proposals to amend the laws on combating discrimination, racism and gender-related discrimination are on the table. You can wait for an initiative from me in the coming months. Finally, before the end of this year, I will also launch an awareness campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic969x.u14	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. This means that in the coming months we can wait for a proposal for an action plan and an awareness campaign. It's really necessary. You just said that you wanted to work with the support of the different communities. It is also indispensable. Indeed, we need cohesion and agreement on our territory. We have to fight racism. But there's an emergency. The awareness-raising campaign must come quickly. All communities, all citizens are affected by what is happening these days. Even outside of Schild in Vrienden, unacceptable behaviour is evident.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic969x.u15	Mrs. Caprasse, you came in during the discussion. Would you like to react, but without asking your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic969x.u16	Madam Secretary of State, we are counting on you to combat all forms of discrimination. In relation to racism, a trend is emerging today, which is particularly worrying. I recently asked you about the major gatherings, especially the Pukkelpop festival, during which revolting attacks were observed. As Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, you must really take these issues to heart. Our society is multicultural. It is our wealth and we must take this into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic969x.u17	With regard to the events of Pukkelpop, I felt it was my duty to make clear my opinion on this matter as well. These facts are unacceptable. I condemned them immediately, as well as condemning all racist statements without distinction. In this case, the authors realized that they had committed a huge mistake. Since I am also in charge of federal scientific institutions, I thought it wise to invite them to visit the African Museum. A better understanding of history can prevent such behaviour from happening again. As already indicated, I am drafting a society-wide action plan involving all communities. Secondly, we are working to organize an awareness-raising campaign, with a view to changing attitudes. Finally, I will propose legislative amendments on the subject of anti-discrimination. I hope that I will be able to present these three projects to Parliament before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic969x.u18	In any case, we will have the opportunity to meet on the general policy notes for 2019. I regret that so many members were absent, but most of the questions could still be asked.
