ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u1	Mr Minister, the dossier on the possible partial IPO of Belfius has been going on for some time now. It's gotten quiet in that file. This question is almost two months old, but it is still topical. The original timing we had heard from you was "before the summer, if possible." It's gonna be very short notice, I think. Is there any evolution in that file? What about the planned timing? If a part would go to the stock market, what is the strategy to follow with the shares that will remain in the State's hands?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u2	Mr Klaps, the IPO's first foreseen timing in the first half of 2018, as you yourself have indicated, of course, is no longer feasible, because it is already at the end of May. That is a pity in itself, but that does not mean that the IPO would no longer be desirable or feasible at a later date. The issue remains in the government's hands, but it will, of course, depend partly on the market conditions that will be presented after the summer to what extent we may or may not be able to proceed to an IPO of part of the share capital at that time. The remaining share capital will of course be managed by the State as it has always been managed, i.e. optimally, in its various forms, both in terms of capital value and dividend value.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u3	I can only insist once again that the government takes the necessary steps, because market timing is very important. However, in order for market timing to take place, a decision in principle must first be taken. I call on all the majority parties to give that principle approval as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u4	Mr President, Minister, several companies offer training and training. For this purpose, they must charge VAT to their customers, including in the case of individuals or public institutions. Meanwhile, there are several universities, exempt from VAT, that offer training through ancillary organisations or spin-offs. If they compete with private training providers, they have a price advantage through taxation. Are you prepared to regularize this unfair competition?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u5	Mr President, Mr Klaps, I have said here several times that it is essential for the market to function as efficiently as possible. We have just discussed in the GAFA context that companies can compete with each other in an open and fair manner, without being hindered by fiscal provisions which result in distortions of competition. Therefore, it is unacceptable that VAT provisions require certain training providers to charge VAT, while other players can offer similar or even identical training without charging VAT. The problem to which you refer stems from the amendment of Article 44, § 2, 4° of the VAT Lawbook, the Law of June 2013. In order to put an end to this market distortion, in the short term, I will re-present my already existing legislative initiative to make the application of the VAT exemption for the provision of training subject to the condition that the application of the exemption does not give rise to distortion of competition to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u6	Minister, I share your analysis and look forward to the new texts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u7	Mr Minister, as of 1 June 2016, directors-legal persons have become liable for VAT for their mandate in an operating company. There are a number of conditions. They must have a general competence of management, control and management, so that the VAT obligation does not apply to specific contracts within the operating company which cannot be classified as acts of management, control and management. In addition, the mandate should be paid in order to be or become subject to VAT. That arrangement has a long history. In the previous legislature, the rules were intended to be amended as a result of a European opinion, but the final regulation was postponed indefinitely. In a circular dated 30 March 2016, the rules were worked out. They entered into force on 1 June 2016. With regard to that VAT obligation, the question arose for a long time as to what that would mean for the syndici, who were classified by the law on co-ownership as directors in a company. In the case of the many delays concerning the VAT regime for directors' companies, the tax authorities have always indicated that there would be no change to the syndici choice system, but the question is whether this is still the case with the above circular and whether it is also compatible with the European VAT Directive. There seems to be some concern and uncertainty in this respect. Hence my questions to you, Minister. Can you clarify whether the new circular of 30 March 2016 has an impact on the choice system for the syndici? If so, which one? If not, in what way? Can you explain whether the current system of choice for syndici is compatible with the VAT Directive?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u8	Mrs Smaers, as regards your first question, by publishing the VAT decision No. E.T.127,850 had the sole aim of complying with an opinion of the European Commission on the current system of choice for directors, managers and creditors of companies. With effect from 1 June 2016, legal persons acting as directors, managers or liquidators of companies should therefore be identified for VAT purposes. However, the VAT decision I have just referred to remains without effect for the VAT statute for syndici. The choice system for syndici legal persons is still applicable. I come to your second question. The said system for syndici is based on a special measure for syndici-natural persons, notified to the services of the European Commission before 1 January 1977, in accordance with Article 394 of the VAT Directive. Since then, this special scheme has been applied in practice in a way that ensures, as far as possible, neutral treatment for syndici, regardless of their legal capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u10	Mr President, Minister, at the request of the government by June this year, you will be developing the carry-back scheme for farms in difficulty, both in company and in personal taxation. The aim of this scheme is to make the agricultural sector more resilient to large and usually unforeseen price fluctuations, which often exceed 25%. It is very difficult for the sector to deal with that. The scheme provides for farmers to be allowed to offset the tax loss resulting from weather conditions at the end of a financial year with the profit of the three financial years preceding the loss-making year. What is your opinion of the carryback system? What is the international evolution with regard to the backward loss relief? Do you have a view on the extent of the benefit and the additional administration? Is such a scheme compatible with European legislation? Which body will assess whether a tax loss is due to the weather conditions? Or will the reverse loss allowance be introduced regardless of the whims of the weather? Why is a carryback limited to agriculture? There may be other sectors whose fiscal results are weather-dependent or fluctuate strongly according to the economic situation. I am thinking in particular of the steel sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Gantois, as you rightly point out, the aim of introducing a carryback system is to make the agricultural sector more resilient to unexpected price fluctuations. Only a limited number of other States have so far introduced a reverse loss relief system. In these cases, loss relief is almost always limited in time, ranging from one to three years. My administration will assess the benefits of introducing such a system in the preparation of the preliminary draft law and try to minimise the administrative burden on the undertakings concerned. European legislation does not oppose the introduction of a reverse loss relief system. Since the system is limited to the agricultural sector, the preliminary draft law will be submitted in advance to the European Commission services responsible for State aid. The preliminary draft law is currently being prepared and will be further discussed at government level. The various possibilities that still exist will, of course, be discussed further in the context of this discussion. Finally, the various options to introduce a backward loss relief system are currently being finalised.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u12	Minister, you know that I have a great deal of sympathy for the agricultural sector. We must do everything possible to make the sector more resilient. If the government wants to introduce a carry-back system for agriculture, I will of course not say no to that. I just hope that the introduction of such a system will not become too burdensome in administrative terms. By limiting the loss deduction to 70% for companies with a tax result above EUR 1 million, because of the search for a fair minimum tax, it does not make it easier. Although few agricultural companies will have to deal with this rule, it cannot be excluded. In fact, I thought it would be easier and more convenient to bet on a lower rate, rather than making taxation even more complicated. In any case, I look forward to the elaboration of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u13	Mr President, Minister, some time ago you answered a question about the additional tax reduction for pensions and other replacement income. It was then announced that a working group would be set up to develop a structural solution for the 2018 budget. The same can also be read in the explanatory memorandum to the Law of 22 October 2017. I quote: 'The amendment proposed is only a provisional arrangement. Indeed, the government has planned to develop a more thorough solution to the tax reduction for pensions and replacement income under the 2018 budget." In this context, I would like to ask you a few questions. Mr President, could you give us an update on the way in which such a structural solution is being worked out? Has the working group already been established and have there been any initial findings? If not, why not? What will be the parameters of the structural solution? What timing do you put first? If we now do simulations via Tax-on-Web for the lowest pensions and some replacement income, we find that we do not actually have the net advantage of indexation. It is therefore very important that a mechanism be developed for this purpose. I know that this is not easy, hence also the working group. How are we going to proceed with this particular point?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u14	Mr Deseyn, as you have just pointed out, this is particularly complex, certainly in order to map it in detail and well. The administration is still busy with the various slopes. If you think about how to tackle this real problem, then there are several slopes that all have advantages and disadvantages. The trade-offs are of a different nature. Moreover, in any case, there is a budgetary cost picture that needs to be put on the table. It will probably require a considerable amount of structural correction. As has already been said, this cost must at least come on the table. As soon as all the data are available, the working group, which is already in place, will launch a tender. One of the bottlenecks in the additional reduction for pensions and replacement income is that the jointly taxed income should consist exclusively of pensions and replacement income. In my view, this is one of the issues that absolutely must be resolved in this case, so that it can be dealt with more easily. Finally, the structural solution that will emerge will then have to be discussed further by the government. As soon as an agreement has been reached, a draft law will of course be able to be drawn up quickly to submit it to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u15	A little more patience, Mr. Deseyn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u16	Mr President, I am trying to be positive. The positive thing is that the practice is collective; you are also striving for a solution. The negative is that the timing is at our disadvantage: by the end of the legislature, patience is running out. I agree that it is a priority for jointly taxable income. If that is not the case, it is more difficult. By means of the provisional solution, it was ensured that no 100 % or even more is 'taxed'. I do not know if this is a Dutch word. In my last simulation, after abstraction of all other subtractions such as service cheques, I come to 85 % that is being skimmed and only a net increase of 15 % is maintained. In addition to the details, it is also important to know the composition of the working group. Of course, everyone has enough declarations or one can check them with the administration. There is a small point of light, but it is very difficult to explain it politically, because our political approach is precisely to give a number of net benefits and increases. The least are the various indexations that have taken place during the legislature. I hope that we will be able to land quickly on this issue. And even though the solution is not yet perfect, every step forward brings us closer to home. Thank you for your efforts on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u17	Once again, Minister, it is a matter of complying with a treaty as well as possible. Private investors pay both French and Belgian withholding tax on dividends from French shares. That is what we have been talking about before, in Questions Nos 546 and 1238. You replied at that time that you supported the administration's view that the withholding tax in France should not be offset. However, that answer was perhaps separate from the judgment in cassation of 16 June 2017. In that judgment, the Court held that the withholding French withholding tax must be offset by the 30% Belgian withholding tax pursuant to Article 19, A1, second paragraph of the double taxation treaty with France. On the basis of the judgment, a loan of 15% of the net dividend obtained from France must therefore be offset against the Belgian tax of 30% on that dividend. The result is that the Belgian tax may be only 15%. That's why we've got a problem. Private investors have, of course, used the judgment to submit an appeal to recover the excess tax. From a practical point of view, it is noted that recovery is not so easy. A number of regional managements have apparently decided to wait until the Antwerp appeal court has considered the case, while since 3 August 2017, the rule has in fact been that the appeal court has to comply with the judgment of the Court of Appeal when it has to rule on the case after cassation. In West Flanders one does not appear to be waiting and one systematically rejects all problems. These are the cases in which the taxable person has not indicated his French dividends on the declaration form under the withholding tax. That seems to me to be a bit of a shock, because the Court of Cassation has recently ruled that a tax which was definitively collected in connection with the release of withholding tax can never exceed the amount of the tax legally due. I am not talking about certain principles or the extent of taxes, but it must be clear to people that the tax treaty must be respected. Firstly, can you clarify what the position is now with regard to the recovery of overpaid Belgian tax on French dividends? Secondly, will taxpayers be able to recover their overpaid tax, as was also stated by the Court of Cassation? Will we have to sue for this, or will there be a more generous attitude of the regional executives? Problem is, of course, the changing attitude. I always find it very difficult for this to depend on the sub-jurisdictional debt held by the administration. Thirdly, can the administration refuse recovery because the French dividends were not indicated on the declaration form? If so, on what basis can that happen? Does this not come into conflict with the judgment of January 2016 in cassation? Fourthly, perhaps there is also a budgetary cost. I don't know if that cost can be calculated. Apart from the principle, we could state the interpretation and therefore be consistent in the administrative handling or, if one does not want the effects, in a re-negotiation of the amount. However, it is difficult for a politician to clarify this. However, transparency and predictability in the dossier are important issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u18	Mr Deseyn, the judgment of the Court of Cassation of 16 June 2017, to which you refer, is not applied by the administration. I'm declaring myself. The administration considers that the text of the Belgian-French double taxation agreement allows only a deduction of a flat-rate part of foreign tax within the conditions laid down in Belgian legislation. In the case of private individuals, Belgian law only allows a flat-rate foreign tax to be set off in exceptional cases. The same position is now taken by the administration before the Antwerp appeal court. In view of that answer, which, of course, pour dire le moindre, is complex, the answers to your third and fourth questions are also relatively short. The administration does not therefore proceed to any form of reimbursement. Recovery is, of course, refused. It follows from the above, therefore, by definition, that no budgetary impact is expected either.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u19	Mr Van Overtveldt, I understand technically the reasoning, but she does show that the legislation is too complex to be applied in a smooth and efficient way or to be understandable in that way. Moreover, the exceptional nature of certain deductions shows that we are facing a legislative problem here. Who is gonna get out of that when so much interpretation is needed in the application of certain Treaty articles? That in itself is very problematic. I do not dispute your arguments, but I think that the reasoning is difficult to maintain in the future. This may require a change of position or an amendment of our code. It illustrates the need for simplification.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u20	Mr Deseyn, you spoke of a different attitude depending on the administration. I'm not familiar with that. In any case, I will have it checked and I will try to come to the same conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u21	That would contribute to the clarification. It happens that one does not mention things in good faith, because one should not mention them. I fully understand the concerns of the offices, which have to handle all this administratively, while they have to look through the mist of the subtractions and the accounting policy. In itself, that is very problematic, regardless of the logical course of thought. That really needs remediation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u22	With this question too, Minister, I am striving for uniformity and simplicity. The matching principle was also used in the corporate tax reform to deduct professional costs. The current Article 49 of the Income Tax Code 1992 differs from the accounting law. Prepaid costs may be transferred by means of accrued accounts. By way of derogation, the tax duty allows that charges paid today, but which have an economic impact on a subsequent year, can be deducted immediately. On the basis of this rule, a lot of tax planning has already been done. That is why the legislator has opted for all of us here to get rid of these planning techniques. Hence, the matching principle was introduced into corporate tax. As a result, when costs are recorded over several financial years, they can only be deducted pro rata temporally. This is one of many questions about the text of corporate tax. The text of the law and the pleading do not rule whether that rule applies only to planning techniques and improper use or also to non-planning, which refers to intentions that are or are not realized. I am thinking of annual insurance premiums, traffic taxes and so on, which are paid in the taxable period and are actually used for part of the current financial year. Does everything have to be pronounced? That's an open question. I would like to give an example to a company with a fleet of commercial vehicles whose insurance premiums and vehicle taxes are at a different time. According to the literal reading of the law, that company is likely to have to prorate by car, making a breakdown between the piece of the current financial year and the piece of the next financial year. This, of course, results in additional administration. Mr President, I would like to ask you the following questions. What is the scope of the matching principle on the deduction of professional expenses in corporation tax? Is it limited to planning techniques or does it also apply to booked costs that do not constitute planning at all? That leaves a lot of room for interpretation. If your answer were to show that the matching principle also refers to non-planning, would it not be an option, in your view, to provide an administrative tolerance for incurred costs that do not constitute tax planning at all, thereby reducing the administrative obligations for companies in this area? This is the second best and not obvious from the point of view of control, but from the point of view of practice, the question is quite right not to complicate the administration unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u23	Mr Deseyn, the reform of corporation tax obliges companies to apply the accounting principle of conformity, or the matching principle, in tax matters, to the deduction of professional costs. That provision has a general scope and is not limited to pure planning techniques. Costs held on several financial years shall therefore be deductible only as professional expenses from the taxable period of their payment or booking as debt, or from a subsequent taxable period, to the extent that those costs relate to that taxable period. Therefore, I do not think it is appropriate to deviate from that principle and to provide for administrative tolerances. Companies, which regularly bookkeeping, are already obliged to apply the matching principle in accounting terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u24	Minister, you are confessing to the matching principle in all its consequences. This may not always be administratively obvious, but we do spare ourselves discussions about polling for intentions. It is a good thing that we know in practice that this principle must be adhered to unequivocally.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u25	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Winckel's 25184 question is converted into a written question. We are giving Mr Van Biesen the opportunity to put his question No. 25206 later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u26	Minister, it is certain that the Brexit will have consequences for the port of Zeebrugge, for West Flanders, and for Flanders by extension. The port of Zeebrugge and the West Flemish economy are both very dependent on the British market. The consequences of this Brexit are not yet fully clear, but it is certain that there will be checks and more formalities. Forty-six percent of the traffic in Zeebrugge is with Great Britain, accounting for five thousand jobs, EUR 500 million added value and 70 scheduled services per week; 67 percent is exports, mainly textiles, food and cars. In order to ensure a smooth flow, 141 additional customs forces were promised. Following the many additional transactions and administrative formalities resulting from the Brexit decision, Zeebrugge's seaport and many companies are asking for the establishment of a customs antenna in Zeebrugge itself. Minister, I have two questions for you. First of all, are these extra customs forces already in service? If not, when will these extra powers be added? You were talking about 141 powers. Secondly, can we look at the possibility of opening a customs antenna in Zeebrugge? If so, in what time period can this antenna open?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u27	Mrs Lambrecht, I can confirm that 141 customs officials are joining us. The procedures are currently under way, and they will all be at work in Zeebrugge by the end of the year. As far as the customs antenna is concerned, in the port of Zeebrugge there is already a permanent customs team present at the border inspection post at Zeebrugge, the so-called GIP, between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. In order to prepare customs, regular consultations will take place with the Directorate-General TAXUD of the European Commission, specifically to discuss the challenges of the organisation and operational implementation of customs controls after the Brexit, in whatever form that is still open, as you know. The negotiations and the elaboration of operational decisions take place together with the United Kingdom at European level. In addition, informal consultations are held on a frequent basis between the customs administrations of Belgium, the Netherlands, France, Germany and Ireland. A committee has also been set up within the General Administration of Customs and Excise to monitor the operational roll-out of the additional infrastructure and staff with a view to the Brexit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u28	Thank you, Minister. To be quite sure, there will be 141 additional customs officers by the end of the year? They're all for Zeebrugge?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u29	No, they have to cope with all the changes resulting from the Brexit. An important part of it will of course go to Zeebrugge. Excuse me, I've expressed it a little unspoken. Part of it is for Zeebrugge but not the whole group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u30	May I assume that more than half goes to Zeebrugge?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u31	I'll get you the details of the split-up. I do not have the figures right here, so I have to be informed first.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u32	Mr President, Minister, I would like to return to a question that I have already asked in plenary. We know that the European Commission wants to reform VAT rates and is already doing so in the meantime. In the past, it has proposed two options: an extension and a regular review of the existing list or the abolition of the list. The second option would give Member States the freedom to provide for reduced rates themselves and thus exemptions from that basic rate. The European Commission has recently launched a proposal for a directive that opts for the second option. I have asked you on previous occasions to take into account, in Belgium's view, the necessary safeguards that certainly need to be built in to avoid or at least reduce unfair competition between Member States. I have also asked you to call on Europe to include in the general rules on VAT rates the general principle of a greening and sustainability agenda, so that VAT rates for greener consumption and production are lower. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Can you give an up-to-date state of play on the discussions within the Ecofin Council? Has the Commission's proposal been discussed? If not, when will that happen? Can you clarify what Belgium's preference is? What option do you defend? Will you include the demand for greening and sustainability in VAT legislation and advocate in European fora?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u33	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, as far as your first question is concerned, the proposal has already been presented by the European Commission services within the relevant Council technical working groups. However, the substantive discussions have not yet started. Currently, several proposals on VAT have been published by the European Commission, including some proposals with a fundamental reform of the VAT system, mainly aimed at making the system more fraud-proof. It is now up to the rotating Council Presidency to decide which of these proposals should be discussed as a matter of priority. Therefore, I cannot set out the timing for the substantive discussion of the Commission's proposal on the VAT regime. I come to your second question. The above-mentioned proposal is based on an approach which, in fact, completely reverses the current approach in the VAT Directive. In this sense, the proposed approach is in line with what you describe as option 2. Overall, Member States could apply a reduced VAT rate to any supply of goods and services, with the exception of those included in a very clear exhaustive list. On the basis of that proposal and therefore of that approach, negotiations will be conducted at European level in the coming period. I come to your third question. As pointed out by the Commission services, the reform of the European VAT legislation should take clear account of the fact that recent valuable social and economic developments could be supported by the revision of the VAT regime. I would like to remind you that a reform of the European VAT regulation is possible only if there is unanimity between the Member States. Thus, the possible final reform will inevitably reflect the compromise that will hopefully be reached between the various Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that the discussions on this matter still have to be held. As you said in the last part of your answer, it is also important to take into account socially valuable developments. This means that the greening calendar can also be taken. The greening of VAT rates can therefore be supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u35	Mr. Van Peteghem wishes to postpone his question No 25245.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u36	Mr Minister, I would like to go into more detail on this matter, which has recently come up strongly in public opinion. According to customs, three related companies did not submit the necessary permits for the export of large quantities of chemicals to Syria. In concrete terms, these are 24 shipments between May 2014 and December 2016. One of the four chemicals exported, isoacetamide, can be used to produce the nerve gas sarin. According to the companies concerned, they were not aware of the licence requirement. The Minister for the Interior replied to a number of questions on this matter at the plenary session of this Chamber on 19 April. Following on, I would like to put a number of specific questions to you, Minister. Firstly, Mr Jambon has indicated in plenary that the companies concerned have indeed declared those goods to be non-licensed. In other words, they have not submitted the necessary permits. What I want to know from you, Minister, is whether these companies have correctly reflected the content of the shipments? In other words, have they tried to cover up the fact that it was isoacetamide? Or have they been transparent about the fact that the consignments contain isoacetamide? Secondly, the companies concerned claim that they were not aware of the authorisation requirement. They claim that they rely on the customs tool, TARBEL, but that it was not possible to conclude that they had to submit permits. I would like to hear from you whether the claim made by the companies concerned is correct that the communication on the customs directives is not clear as to the licensing requirement for isoacetamide? Thirdly, you stated that the control of shipments from the port is carried out on the basis of risk analyses. Is it true that this risk analysis is carried out at the heart of the matter and that services in the field are given not only as a directive which consignments they need to control, but also what they need to control in practice? Fourthly, can you confirm that if the customs authorities had found that the necessary permits were not available, they should have actually blocked the goods? Fifthly, is it true that all 24 consignments, which are the subject of this case, are subject to control? Finally, is it true that, for the purpose of checking these consignments, the directives to the field services did not mention the need to verify whether the necessary authorisation was available for the export of isoacetamide to Syria?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u37	Mr President, Minister, in mid-April 2018, we learned that three companies in Antwerp were exporting chemicals, banned by an embargo since the end of 2013, to Syria. Indeed, in 2013, the United Nations Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) banned the export of chemicals to Syria. However, it appears that between May 2014 and December 2016, 24 deliveries were made. My group immediately asked you about the seriousness of the facts. Isopropanol, one of the products exported, may be one of the components of sarin gas. However, we know that in April 2017, a chemical attack would have been carried out using such a substance. It is the OPCW's conclusions, however, that cannot determine the origin of the substance. Minister, could you take stock of the investigation? Do you have any new information to communicate to Parliament? What was the exact role of customs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u38	We have no news of Mr. Hellings and Mr. Dallemagne who have been notified. I therefore propose, Minister, that you provide your answers to all the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, customs are actually working on the basis of a risk analysis to control shipments. The risk analysis of consignments, linked to a declaration, uses different parameters on the basis of the boxes on this customs declaration and the information received from other bodies. The authorities concerned, including known operators, are discussed without implying that the operator is unfavorably known or suspected of proliferation activity. These discussions take place on a regular basis, but Customs would like to see even more intensive cooperation. This is why it has already been decided to increase the frequency of meetings with the State Security and the services issuing licences within the Regions for sensitive operators. Cooperation between customs and intelligence services is based on the Act of 30 November 1998, in particular article 14 of the Act, which deals with intelligence and security services. Risk management includes both targeted and random controls, as set out in the EU Customs Code. This risk analysis is coordinated from the central level and serves as the basis for selecting the items to be controlled. The mission includes the required control. Customs works 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. When selecting the customs declaration, the operator shall be informed of this and the consignment shall remain under customs supervision until such time as control can take place. For each export movement, a customs declaration must be introduced which contains a number of boxes which must be filled in. These include the consignor, the commodity code, a description of the goods, such as a common trade name of the country of destination, quantity, value, etc. The use of the goods, on the other hand, is not the subject of a customs declaration. Customs shall not carry out checks on the final consignee or end-use. For this purpose, it is the services issuing the licences of the Regions that are competent. On the basis of the information available, customs had no other indication than that the products were intended for use in the paint industry. In the present case, a general export ban or embargo is not applicable. None of the substances referred to in this dossier is subject to a reporting obligation of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. Within the European Union, there is only one licensed export where the product has a certain level of purity, taking into account the many mainly medical civilian uses of the substance. Such a standard makes control more difficult, especially when false explanations are also mentioned in the declaration. The declaration on whether or not to be subject to authorisation is made by means of a specific code on the declaration. Where appropriate, an incorrect code was used to certify that the goods are not subject to a licence. When adopting European regulations under control and restriction measures, the applicable measures, such as the authorisation requirement and the references to the listed goods of the Regulations in this dossier, shall be sent from TARIC. This is a European database of the European Commission, which is under the Directorate-General TAXUD. This application has a direct control in the national TARBEL system. The measure on isoacetamide was included in TARBEL at the time of implementation. In addition, the operator was informed of the enforcement measures via a request for information from the competent licensing department. I can indeed confirm that the operator was not in possession of an adequate licence. It is impossible for me to comment on a possible decision by the Flemish Region. On 23 January 2017, customs obtained information, which led to an investigation. On the basis of the same information, the competent licensing authority of the Flemish Region officially transferred the case to Customs on 25 January 2017 to examine whether any infringement of the licence obligation was committed. The operators involved in the criminal case are a trader, the declarant and a logistics service company. The Internal Inspection Service conducts an internal investigation into the work processes and their application. This analysis is still under way. It will lead to an action plan in which the optimization of IT systems and certain processes are targeted. This plan consists of three phases: the reporting phase based on information exchange and collaboration, the reporting phase related to risk analysis and verification and, finally, a final phase after reporting for findings and possible follow-up. One of the planned optimisations is to increase the awareness of companies. In addition, the sector federations will also be more involved. In the meantime, a read confirmation of the selection sheets has already been introduced. These sheets also refer more explicitly to TARBEL. An example of one of the longer-term actions is the creation of additional links between the various customs IT systems and databases, so that all information is centrally available to the verifying official.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for this very comprehensive answer. We will take it that it also answers questions that could not be formulated. Mr. Vanvelthoven, would you like to reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u41	Mr President, I do not agree with your conclusion that all the questions have been answered. Minister, I would have liked to know the following in particular. Have the consignments referred to been effectively checked?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u42	Mr Vanvelthoven, the 24 shipments have been checked. The details of this are further examined in the internal investigation. You are well aware, of course, that what could actually be going on here is very important for the criminal proceedings that are currently under way. So I can't give you any details about that right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u43	Minister, I understand that there are two elements. There is, on the one hand, criminal proceedings in progress. It will, I presume, initially be addressed to the companies concerned. I do not wish to comment on the involvement of customs personnel. On the other hand, the question has also been raised as to whether the way in which customs carry out such controls has been properly carried out. In this respect, I have the feeling and even the conviction that this is not the case. 24 shipments have been checked, customs know they're going to Syria and that it's about that product. It is therefore incomprehensible that the customs authorities do not block shipments. It is particularly on that point that I would have liked to know from you what lessons you will learn for the future. I did not receive an answer to that question from you. You reply that it is still partly included in the investigation, but we can nevertheless conclude that the customs authorities have not acted adequately in the case. Minister, you are responsible for customs services. I would have liked to have heard from you whether or not you believe that the customs authorities have acted correctly in the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u44	Mr President, it seems to me that I have understood that the Minister has cleared customs. You have to see that. Finally, it refers to regional services, which, in one way or another, are in charge of licensing the export of certain sensitive products. I imagine that there may be some colleagues in the Flemish Parliament to question the competent minister to find out what is the situation. At the same time, I am astonished that customs would not be affected by the application and effectiveness of norms of international law, which are aimed precisely at prohibiting the export of certain products deemed sensitive to sensitive recipients, and in particular those elements which may be included in the composition of chemical weapons. It seems to me that this analysis that the minister is transmitting to us must be checked, because if we were to learn tomorrow that customs, which is in the front line in the analysis of everything that passes through, in particular through seaports, but also through airports, does not have the operational or even legal capacity, if I believe the minister's analysis, to verify that some components will not ultimately lead to the manufacture of chemical weapons, there is something very disturbing. This is all the more so since the context is that we are facing a country at war. It's not just any country. In other words, lights are on. What is preventing Customs from acting pro-actively, and in particular from seeking information from its regional counterparts, in the regional administrative services, in order to make clear, and in doubt, to suspend, pending better information and feedback from the competent services of the Regions? I have the impression that here it is more of a kind of answer that aims to clear customs, with all due respect for it, for the rest. It is a great and beautiful administration, which lacks resources. This is perhaps also the problem: the lack of resources for customs administration. But clearly, Mr. Chairman, I am not satisfied with the answers I have heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u45	Thank you. I did not want to judge the quality of the answer. I simply considered that the answer was given to all the stakeholders who had been announced. For the rest, everyone can of course make his or her own opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u46	Questions Nos 25206 and 25484 by Mr Luk Van Biesen are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u47	Minister, according to a UN report, our country is the third most important exporter of waste electrical and electronic material to Nigeria. However, more than a quarter of them are unusable and illegal. It would be about 60 000 tonnes of such material that Nigeria enters every year, especially from Germany and the United Kingdom. But our country is also good for 5 660 tonnes via the Antwerp harbour and scores high. Most of these end-of-life electronic products are not transported in containers, but in second-hand cars destined for the Nigerian market. They account for as much as 70% of electronic waste. This not only saves space for the performer, but it is also a way of avoiding controls. As much as 98 percent is from the EU. The report therefore states that the export of electronics in vehicles is very efficient for shipping companies, because they fill up so expensive space during transport. These include LCD televisions and television screens, CRT televisions, monitors, photocopying machines and so on. More than half of these devices are defective and end up directly on the scrap heap. According to the UN report, the port of Antwerp appears to be a turntable for the shady trade in second-hand vehicles. In 2010, only 148 used cars were intercepted in all Belgian ports, which were ready to leave with waste on board; 99% of the vehicles on the quays were not controlled by customs. This is a lot, isn't it? It seems clear to me, therefore, that in the port of Antwerp, but also elsewhere in Europe, there is a closer focus on exports of end-of-life electronics. Firstly, can you clarify how many second-hand vehicles were checked in the port of Antwerp, as well as in other places in Belgium, for the period 2010 to now? Secondly, can you explain whether the number of targeted controls on second-hand vehicles used for the trade in end-of-life electronics has been increased since 2010? If no, how come? Thirdly, can you say whether there are currently active controls on second-hand vehicles filled with waste electronics? Fourthly, will you instruct the customs services to carry out additional targeted checks?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u48	Mr Van Peteghem, from 2011 until now, the General Administration of Customs and Excise checked 3 913 second-hand vehicles loaded with waste. These were second-hand trucks and vans that can carry large loads, not so much passenger vehicles. Unfortunately, no detailed data are available for the period before 2010. The number of controlled second-hand vehicles used for the trade in end-of-life electronics remains stable over the period 2011 to 2014. From 2015 onwards, checks will increase year after year through a thorough risk analysis and good cooperation with environmental inspection services. Currently, the General Administration of Customs and Excise, in conjunction with the environmental inspection services, actively and continuously controls the export of second-hand vehicles. Much has already been invested in customs. Spread over 2017 and 2018 an additional 5.6 million euros was released to invest in improving supervision and controls. This money provides, among other things, for the replacement of mobile scanners in Antwerp and Zeebrugge. Additional observation tools and detection devices were also purchased. In addition, an additional budget has already been made available for an upgrade of the two fixed scanning installations in Antwerp. Of course, these additional resources will benefit the entire operation of customs. It does not focus solely on the problem you mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is good that controls are increasing. The number of checks over seven years was about 4,000 cars. That amounts to 500 a year. There used to be 148. This means that only 3 % of the cars on the quays are checked. I hear that this is increasing every year, that more attention is being paid to this, that the right risk analysis is being carried out. I think this is important. Efforts for scanners are also necessary. The UN report must not repeat itself. It doesn't make sense for this to happen. Thank you for your efforts in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u50	Mr President, Minister, the intercommunals have been subject to corporate tax since 2015. The company tax reform now requires at least one manager to receive a driver's fee of at least EUR 45 000 per year in order to benefit from the reduced rate of 20% and not to be fined. If the minimum remuneration condition cannot be met, this will result in a fine of probably 5.1 % and later 10% of the deficit of the remuneration paid, which amounts to a fine of up to about 4 500 euros. In the case of intercommunals, the directors are not technically self-employed and are actually awarded seat medals according to the rules in force. The payment of a fee of EUR 45 000 to one of the directors would be contrary to the provisions which intercommunals must comply with and the rules on seat badges. It is therefore considered whether the remuneration received by the Director could be taken into account. In practice, it appears that the director is regarded as a manager if he carries out a leading position or a leading activity of a commercial, financial or technical nature outside a contract of employment. In that connection, I refer to Article 31 (1) 2° WIB 92. One of your predecessors confirmed years ago that a director in charge of the Executive Board can be regarded as a manager. I am talking about a question that was asked in 1996 or 1997. As a result, the above obligation is fulfilled as soon as the Director is awarded a minimum remuneration of EUR 45 000 per year outside a contract of employment. The problem for the intercommunals, however, is that their directors are just employed by contract of employment. It is also expected that the so-called attraction principle will apply, which will allow the other remuneration as a driver's employee to be taken into account in determining the limit amount. It seems appropriate to me that the tax rules should take into account any compensation paid to staff members or at least to directors working on a contract of employment, so that the obligation to pay a fee of EUR 45 000 would be met. This is the only way in which an intercommunal can meet its obligations and tax regulations. Hence my questions. Can you confirm that in the case of an intercommunal director with an employment contract, the manager can be qualified as a manager so that the minimum remuneration requirement can be met? If not, why not? Can this imply that all other allowances and remuneration can be included in the calculation of the allowance in order to meet the condition of minimum remuneration?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u51	Mr President, Mr Deseyn, according to the legal provisions in this regard, the remuneration of a director who carries out, in principle, in an intercommunal contract, a leading position or a leading executive of a commercial, financial or technical nature, is taxable remuneration of employees. In addition, where the Director carries out an assignment in that intercommunal as a director or liquidator, the remuneration referred to above shall, in accordance with the principle of attraction, constitute remuneration for managers. However, this principle of attraction does not apply and, nevertheless, the remuneration of employees, where his assignment as a director or liquidator is unpaid, and provided that any income of immovable property he would obtain from the intercommunal is not eligible for the requalification to remuneration of managers. Although remuneration is not qualified as remuneration for managers but as remuneration for employees, the administration accepts in that case that they are eligible for the assessment of whether the minimum remuneration for the application of the reduced rate is reached in corporation tax. Finally, where the facts show that the function of director of the intercommunal is similar to that of director or liquidator, his remuneration shall be clearly classified as remuneration of managers. Similar functions are to be understood as those performed by persons who are in a legal situation identical to that of directors or liquidators, but who have a different title or in fact exercise functions of directors or liquidators. Consequently, the powers conferred on these persons should exceed those of the Executive Board. For example, a general director is considered to exercise similar functions when, firstly, he is competent to represent the intercommunal before the courts, secondly, he has full power to conclude agreements without restrictions, and thirdly, he has the power to sign the tax declaration of the intercommunal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u53	Mr President, Minister, may I ask you, after this question, to deal with the joint questions with Mr Vanvelthoven on the securities tax? Mr Vanvelthoven has already agreed. Mr President, on previous questions, I should like to ask you a question. 24919 and No. You replied as follows: 25,000. I quote: 'The modalities on the basis of which the payment plans were granted by the administration have already been assessed on the basis of an analysis of the application of the existing directives, which will result in an adjustment of the directives mentioned, with a view to a correct balance between efficiency and fairness.' I would like to ask you the following question. Can you make these guidelines available to us? You referred to it and because there is rightly the necessary political attention again to the debt problem, it would be interesting to know which directives the administration uses.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u54	Mr Deseyn, as has already been pointed out, my administration is currently finalising, on the basis of an evaluation, appropriate directives on the payment plans. This is mainly about the implementation of the procedure of the administrative debt settlement that provides a perspective for citizens and businesses with structural payment problems and debts in relation to the FPS Finance, and for whom a payoff plan clearly does not provide a solution for up to 12 months. These directives will be translated into a circular which will, of course, be of a public nature and can and will be submitted after finalisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u55	Minister, I am sure you have noticed that a new slope has emerged in order to escape the tax on securities accounts. A number of tax lawyers argue that third parties, for example children, can co-owner a small percentage of the securities account, for example through a donation or gift, to escape the tax. I quote a tax lawyer: "According to the letter of the law, it is not mandatory to apply the actual distribution of the securities account. The bank will not impose the tax on anyone and the security tax would not be payable. Your cabinet confirms that view. Can you confirm that the non-obligation to apply the actual distribution of the securities account relates only to the deposit by the bank? Can you confirm that if the bank does not include the security tax, this does not exempt the taxpayer from paying the tax, in other words that the payment is effectively a liability of the taxpayer? If there is a loophole mentioned here, what will you do to close it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u56	Minister, the problem was well outlined. I would like to illustrate it with an example. If we had a securities account with EUR 960 000 by the end of March, we would have to pay EUR 1 440 securities tax by the end of the year, but if we make two children 1% co-owners each, we could escape the tax. One would then have EUR 960 000 on the first reference date and an account of EUR 320 000 each on the next three reference dates, namely on the day of the donation, on 30 June and on 30 September. The taxable base is then equal to the average value on the four reference dates, which corresponds to EUR 480 000, which is lower than the tax-free sum of EUR 500 000, which means that no tax is due. However, the experts state that according to the letter of the law it would not be compulsory to apply the actual distribution of the securities account. In their view, an adjustment would only be required if one of the holders of the account were to recover money from it. In my view, the experts forget to mention that the proportional distribution is only rebuttable and that the counter-proof can be provided at any time. Mr Minister, do you confirm the illustration I have given to artificially reduce a share in a securities account by making other persons part of the securities account? If so, can the administration not challenge that possibility by showing falsification? Secondly, Minister, do you confirm that the law only rebutably suspects that the distribution is proportional to the number of holders? If yes, does this not mean that a counter-proof can be provided, so that the actual distribution has to be taken into account? If yes, can the counter evidence be provided by both the cotitularist and the administration, or can it only be provided by the cotitularist? With that further refinement I want to try to find out if something that at first sight seems easily bypassable, at second sight is not so easy to bypass. Do you think that something else or something more punitive should be done to close the halls, as the other member calls them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u57	The tax on the securities account is conceived around the idea of looking at the share of each natural person. In order to meet practical difficulties in charging the tax, the actual share was abstracted and the presumption of proportionality or proportional presumption was introduced. A debt holder's share shall be determined in a proportionate manner, having regard to the fact that the debt holder creates a presumption of possession, thereby giving the debt holder the most extensive management and decision-making powers. For the purpose of administrative simplification, the bank shall withhold the fee from the source in the proportionate manner described. If the tax was not withheld at source, the holder will always be obliged to declare the tax if his total share in the securities accounts is equal to or more than EUR 500 000. Not only the bank but also the holder himself can use the proportional distribution in the declaration on the basis of a presumption of possession. In any event, the declaration shall provide for the possibility of giving up the actual share in order to avoid subsequent restitution. However, it is not an obligation. It is only when a holder of the securities account is added that the parties are unable to accept the effects of the legal act that they may be feigned. In this respect, it should be noted that the tax is based on the fact that each holder acquires management and disposal rights over the securities account as owner. Moreover, in the example quoted, each holder will be considered to have 33.3 % of the securities account, even if the actual share is only 1%. If other accounts are held, the overestimate of the share may result in the holder being within the scope of the tax, on the basis of the proportional share, while the actual share is significantly lower. Finally, in the event of a donation of 2%, as mentioned in the example, a value of 19 200 euro will immediately disappear from the giftor's assets, which is almost fifteen times the amount of the fee due. Indeed, Article 152/1, 5° of the WDRT introduces a rebuttable presumption as regards the share of the holder. However, it is important to note that the starting point of the tax remains the proportional distribution, both in the case of a bank declaration and in the case of a declaration by the holder himself. If only the actual share would be declared compulsory by the holder himself, this would constitute discrimination against the banks in relation to retention. The counter-proofing referred to here is therefore only applicable in the context of the refund if the holder wishes to apply a different key on his own initiative and taking into account his actual share. In order to avoid that the holder who has to submit a declaration himself would first have to declare proportionally and then apply for the refund in respect of the actual share, the actual share may be indicated in anticipation, but that too is not an obligation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u58	Mr Minister, I have always understood this differently. I have always understood that the suspicion you speak of applies to the intermediary, because he cannot always know or need to know. You are now extending that to the taxpayer. The intermediary shall be required to withhold a levy. It is therefore about a levy and not about the final tax. The taxpayer, on the other hand, is the one who has to pay the real tax. I have always understood that the real tax applies to the share of what is in the securities account. I do not think your explanation is correct, because one relates to the levy and the other to the tax actually due. Besides, I don't think that was meant to happen. Natural persons who have a securities account with more than EUR 500 000 must pay tax. Period. Now there appears to be a possibility in which that is not the case. I disagree. If my fellow Members have understood it differently than I have and follow your point, they should not do anything, but if they are convinced that this has never been the intention, I call on them to take a legislative initiative in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u59	Minister, I understand from your answer that the soup is not eaten as hot as it is served. I assume that your interpretation is correct and that we will distribute it proportionally. If there is a real power shift, it can have certain repercussions and one will have to pay or not. The question is, of course, whether there is a real transfer, and whether the intention is met in the legal act. If this is the case and if the basic arrangement is that one has to pay or not to pay in accordance with the proportional distribution between the holders, who can indicate a different distribution in the declaration for the purposes of recovery, then that is a coherent claim. We will go over the whole technical explanation again, but when it comes to efficient collection, what is collective practice, it will be important, as in the case of real estate sales, to expose a number of falsehoods. We certainly agree with that. Some Members believe that we need to go even further, but I think that this needs to be studied first. We will first have to have indications that the scheme is effectively failing. I believe that the procedure as it is conceived and as you have outlined it, which is valued above EUR 500 000, is quite solid, under the conditions you have just outlined. I hope so. If there are any counter-indications, we will have to act very quickly. I absolutely agree with Mr Vanvelthoven on this. But based on the explanation I have heard here, I conclude, perhaps a little optimistic, something else.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u60	Mr Crusnière and Mrs Jadin have informed us that they will not join us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u61	Minister, I read in the press this weekend that you were not completing your tax return yourself and that it was a professional who was doing it for you. I assume that during this filling, it also calculates the amount of what you will receive or have to pay. However, it appears that the FPS Finance changed this year's instructions to its agents with respect to assistance to taxpayers who come to their offices to file their personal tax returns (PIPs). This is particularly evident from a PowerPoint from the administration. One of the new instructions is to "do not give the result of the tax calculation", on the grounds that the service provided is a filling aid, not the provision of a tax calculation. The aim is also to "reduce the number of visitors". Some taxpayers would only come to the filling sessions for tax purposes. Another requirement is that you do not print anything for taxpayers who come forward. Minister, do you confirm that FPS Finance officers cannot communicate to taxpayers, either in writing or even orally, the amount of their future refund or tax supplement? Why deprive taxpayers of a tax calculation that is automatically provided by the computer? Are the reasons given not a little light, while providing taxpayers with the amount of a possible future tax debt can help them plan for its payment? Is it not discrimination against taxpayers who themselves complete their PPI return on Tax-on-web or who use the services of a professional, like you, and thus have a tax calculation? Furthermore, if the grievor can no longer print anything but must have a document signed to the taxpayer, does that mean that the taxpayer signs a document that does not return the amounts of the return? If so, is it legal? Subsequently, if the administration corrects the return without complying with legal rules such as, for example, the requirement to send a notice of rectification, how could the taxpayer know or have evidence of it? Finally, through these instructions, are not the taxpayers who come to ask for help in filling out their declaration as second-class citizens? Is not the role of a public service to provide the best possible service to the public, including those who have difficulty completing a particularly complicated tax return?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u62	Mr Van Hees, as regards the disclosure of the results of the tax calculation, there is no directive prohibiting agents who help taxpayers to communicate these results to them. If the communication of the result of the calculation is a service provision which can accompany the assistance in filling out the declaration, it does, however, lead to a significant increase in time. In particular, because it is common for the taxpayer to ask for an explanation of the difference between the result of the calculation of that year's return and that of the previous year. This explanation cannot, of course, be given without comparing the two-year returns. It is therefore likely to considerably increase the time taken to assist in the filling of each declaration, with the result that not only a significant increase in the waiting period for the taxpayer but also potential safety problems in certain buildings are involved. As for the printing of the on-site documents, my services have, from experience, found that the printing of many paper documents had little added value, both for the taxpayer and for the administration, but was a significant expenditure on paper, extended the time taken to complete each return and also generated significant back office administrative processing. A new, less energy-intensive procedure has therefore been put in place. However, if the taxpayer wishes to obtain a summary statement at all costs, the taxpayer will be provided with one. It is wrong to say that taxpayers who come to the offices of my administration are considered second-class citizens. On the contrary, the measures put in place tend to ensure better fluidity of the filling aid, a limitation of waiting time and an improvement in the comfort and security conditions in which taxpayers are received. Moreover, for more and more taxpayers, the need to visit our offices has disappeared due to the constant increase in the number of citizens who receive a proposal for a simplified declaration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u63	Mr President, I note a contradiction in the Minister's answers. Indeed, he tells me that there is no directive prohibiting the calculation, which is contrary to the PowerPoint presentation I quoted and which says "do not give the result of the tax calculation". That seems to me a fairly clear injunction. Here, the minister says the opposite. I don't know who I should believe: the administration's PowerPoint presentation or the minister. Especially since he adds that it still poses a problem to perform this calculation. I believe that this is indeed a small problem, but it is less so than not giving people a calculation. As far as printing is concerned, it is the same problem. If the taxpayer does not claim the summary statement, he does not have evidence of what he has filed as a return, which seems to me a problem in terms of defending the taxpayer's rights. He or she must be able to dispose of the elements of his or her statement even if a minimum is printed. I don't understand why it's not automatic. These taxpayers are therefore at a disadvantage compared to those who, like the Minister, can use the services of a professional.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u64	Mr President, Minister, I would indeed like to talk about how Belfius works when someone applies for a mortgage credit. Normally, the bank will have to examine whether the financial capacity is there to pay off the loan effectively. One must be able to handle the monthly payments of the loan and, of course, have enough money left to support his family. Several banks have different policies, for example on the revenues that are counted to calculate the financial capacity. With regard to Belfius, I had the following questions. What is the policy of Belfius in this respect? Can you explain that? What amount does Belfius consider necessary to provide for maintenance after the monthly repayment? Is the child's money charged or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u65	Mr Vanvelthoven, I put the question you asked to Belfius, with the following answer. Belfius ensures that the financial capacity is sufficient to repay the mortgage credit. After the monthly payment of the loan and other financial charges, the family must still have sufficient income to provide for the living and this for the entire duration of the credit. The amounts necessary for this are inspired by the principles, generally accepted as responsive lending. For this purpose, Belfius refers more specifically to the Code of Conduct of the Credit Professional Association, which Belfius has endorsed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u66	Mr President, I understand that you have received a brief reply from Belfius and I repeat that. I'll check that code of conduct. You may suspect that I am asking this question because I am getting signals that loans are being granted far too easily. That is why I would have liked to have heard the amounts, to know what one considers to be sufficient income to provide for the maintenance of a family.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u67	I have worked in a bank myself and I think I know in general terms that children's money is being counted effectively. I can't formally confirm that, but I suspect it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u68	I'll check that in the code of conduct, and if there are any doubts, I'll come back to you with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u69	Minister, this question dates back to the beginning of May. What amount of advance payments did the companies covered by NACEBEL codes 32121 for 2016 and 46761 for 2017 pay? In the meantime, I've been able to read those figures in the press. What surprised me was the interpretation you gave to the figures. I read in the newspaper that you said the carat tax brought in more than planned in the budget. You referred to that EUR 50 million. That 50 million euros was extra. I have just read it in the note on the budgetary impact of the study service. It says that the base of departure is the 2013 attack year. Then these companies paid 37 million euros. The revenue of the carat tax is estimated at 87 million euros, according to the study service. Of course, comparing the figures you give with the advance payments is not entirely correct. If I understand correctly, this is EUR 51.2 million for 2016 and EUR 68.4 million for 2017. That remains a lot less than EUR 87 million that it should bring. I asked for figures, but I also gave my idea of how you communicated on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u70	Well, it's about advance payments. That means there's more coming. That is, of course, different from year to year. We then calculated an average of what the well-known sector pays. We got that 37 million in a minute. We want $50 million on top of that. Of course, that 37 million depends on the year, it's an average. I understand your point of view. One should have 87 million in principle, but of course that is not the way it works in reality. One looks at what one gets in through the normal circuit and one puts 50 million on top. That is actually the test that needs to be carried out. On average, therefore, we should get 87 million, but in a river that is on average half a metre deep...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u71	Mr Minister, the caution you indicate means that you cannot be euphoric and can make it appear in the press as if... well, even a minister can have his say once in a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u72	I take the liberty of saying that sometimes you go the other way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u73	That's right, of course. Journalists also like to take over because they don't know the files well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u74	Mr President, Minister, at the end of 2015 some adjustments were made to the Cayman tax. In December 2015, Parliament approved, inter alia, the extension of the scope of the Cayman tax in plenary. Entities and companies the rights of which are held by one or more persons linked to each other, as appropriate, by separate compartment, have been considered as legal arrangements by the Income Tax Code since those adjustments. In practice, it often concerns the shares or compartments of a Luxembourg sicav held by connected persons. Two years ago, I drew your attention in this committee to the fact that the law in this area was unclear and that fiscalists would use that uncertainty to get certain customers out of the caiman tax. However, the intention of the legislator and the scope of the law are clear. All funds shall be endorsed, private, public and institutional, with or without a European passport, within or outside the EEA, as soon as they are not of a collective nature. At the end of last year we discussed this further in the context of the discussion of the programme law. During that meeting, you confirmed that there was a need for intervention. Let me quote you: 'As regards the application of the viewing tax to private collective investment undertakings, the Minister notes that this was also carefully and extensively examined by the government. However, the analysis carried out by the administration showed that this adjustment should be included in the implementing decisions relating to the lists of legal arrangements. The Government has decided that these implementing decisions will be amended in order to effectively ensure the application of the viewing tax to private undertakings or collective investments." This is your position in the report at the time. In the meantime, we are six months ahead, Minister, and I find no trace of an adjustment of that Royal Decree of 18 December 2015. You will understand, therefore, that I would like to hear from you the reasons for the absence of such an adjustment. When will the KB be modified?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u75	Mr Vanvelthoven, it was decided in the government that the adjustments to the royal decree to which you refer will apply to the revenue obtained, granted or payable by a legal arrangement from 1 January. This will allow this Decision to be published in the course of 2018 in order to have its impact for the full year. I can tell you that at this very moment this whole is going through review at the level of the IKW. I can therefore express my firm expectation that the publication of this Royal Decree will be a fact by the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u77	Mr Minister, in line with the fourth anti-money laundering directive, our country should establish a UBO register in the fight against money laundering. Council Directive 2016/2258/EU of 6 December 2016 provides for access to the UBO register for the Belgian tax administration. The Fifth Anti-Money Laundering Directive provides that this register must be publicly accessible to all those who have a legitimate interest. Member States may also apply for a fee for a public consultation. The means of access to the UBO register should be laid down by royal decree. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, is there an agreement within the government on the necessary implementing decisions? Secondly, when will the UBO register be operational? Thirdly, what information will the authorities be able to consult? Fourthly, as regards access for the tax authorities, does the implementing decisions provide for a limitation compared to, for example, the access granted to the CFI? If so, in what way? Fifthly, will the tax authorities be able to consult the register with a view to establishing the correct taxation? Sixthly, a few questions concerning third-party access to the register. Do the implementing decisions provide for restrictions on access to the register compared to access by the authorities? If so, what restrictions? What data will third parties be able to consult? How much will a consultation of the register cost? How is a consultation defined? What amount of income do you charge as a result of the paying nature of access to the register? Where did you get that amount? Finally, on the basis of which criteria and by whom will it be decided whether someone has a legitimate interest and thus is entitled to consult the register?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u78	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, something went wrong with the printed answers. So I had to look up some things, but that's happened in the meantime. Work is under way on the content and entry into force of the Royal Decree on the operating procedures of the UBO Registry. The purpose of the Government is to have legislation containing the amendments introduced by the Agreement amending the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive of 19 December 2017. The publication is expected in the course of the following weeks. The Royal Decree will shortly be resubmitted to the Council of State for publication in June or early July. Computer applications are currently being tested. After publication, the register can be operational fairly quickly. The competent authorities and the entities subject to European and national law shall have access to all information contained in the UBO register. The general public will have limited access to the information contained in the Directive, namely the name, month and date of birth, the country of residence as well as the nature and extent of the ultimate interest. The principle of tax access to the UBO register is already regulated by Article 83 of the Law of 22 March 2018 on the strengthening of economic growth and social cohesion. A royal decision has yet to be taken which will determine the conditions and modalities. When the conditions and modalities laid down by the King are met, the tax authorities will have access to all data in the register, as will any other competent authority. At present, the consultation costs for obliged entities and the general public are assessed. The amount is, of course, determined on the basis of the development and maintenance costs of the UBO register. For the time being, the General Administration of the Treasury evaluates the various possible ways of paying and consulting, such as setting up subscriptions, a flat rate or a one-off consultation. The concept of legitimate interest will only apply after the entry into force of the fifth AMLD, when consulting certain similar trusts and other legal arrangements. The legitimate interest will be assessed and assigned by the General Administration of the Treasury on the basis, in particular, of the elements provided by the Fifth AMLD and the above mentioned KB.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u79	Minister, I understand that public access and its cost are being looked at even further. I just want to tell you that the UBO register is created in the context of the demand for greater transparency. Today there is already the possibility to consult the annual accounts of companies. That consultation is free today. I would therefore like to suggest that the financial threshold should not be set too high, so that the principle of transparency is not undermined.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u80	Questions No 25349 by Mr Stéphane Crusnière, No 25366 by Mr Benoît Friart, No 25397 by Mrs Sonja Becq, No 25484 by Mr Luk Van Biesen, No 25491 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin, No 25506 by Mrs Griet Smaers, No 25508 by Mrs Griet Smaers, No 25512 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin, No 25513 by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, No 25514 by Mrs Annick Lambrecht, No 25522 by Mrs Karine Lalieux, No 25523 by Mrs Griet Smaers, No 25525 by Mr Peter Vanvelthoven, No 25544 by Mr Roel Deseyn and No 25534 by Mrs Nathalie Muylle are either postponed or transformed into written questions or cancelled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u81	Mr Minister, it has been learned that the European directive which could oblige lawyers, tax advisers and financial intermediaries to inform the tax authorities of the tax arrangements they are making on behalf of their customers will soon arrive at the Ecofin agenda. What position will you take on this occasion, given the reluctance that has been felt in our parliamentary work, particularly in the framework of the Panama Papers Committee? Do you already have any idea how far you could transpose this directive?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u82	Mr Dispa, the European directive which obliges intermediaries to inform the tax authorities of tax arrangements is indeed on the agenda of the Ecofin Council next Friday. On the content of the text, there is already a political agreement. I will be clear: Belgium has always supported the Commission's proposals to increase the transparency of intermediaries who set up tax optimisation mechanisms for the benefit of their customers. As for the transposition of this directive, I can inform you that the government will not drag things on, on the contrary. In order to inform the intermediaries and taxpayers concerned in time of their obligations, the Government considered it necessary to immediately launch the process of transposition into Belgian law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u83	Minister, thank you for your answers, which fully satisfy me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u84	Minister, on April 25, I asked you a question about the rate of VAT to be applied for health promotion services at the School (PSE). At the time, your answer was quite satisfactory. In view of this answer, can the VAT rate of 6% be applied as of now for the PSE services or, at least, for the work in progress, provided that they have started after the adoption of the decree granting this right to the psycho-medical-social centres (PMS)?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u85	Mr Dispa, item XL of Table A of the Annex to Royal Decree No 20 has been amended to grant the reduced rate of 6% to deliveries of buildings intended for PMS centres exempted under the Code and to certain real estate works carried out in these buildings. This amendment came into force on January 1, 2016. In the interests of fiscal neutrality, I have agreed, in response to your question No 24865, that the reduced rate of 6% may also apply to buildings intended for use by the PSE services in the course of their tasks. Therefore, and always in the interests of fiscal neutrality, the reduced rate of 6 % must also apply to the buildings of those services as from 1 January 2016. I can therefore confirm that the rate of 6% is applicable to the transactions in question for which VAT became payable from 1 January 2016. As regards the rules on liability and the corrections to be made for transactions which would have been carried out with the application of the normal rate and which may still benefit from the rate of 6 %, reference should be made, by analogy, to point 8 of Circular 2018/C/6 of 18 January 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u86	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u87	Minister, will you allow Mr Gilkinet to ask his question?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u88	Mr President, it has been so long since I answered Mr Gilkinet's question in committee that I dare not say no!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u89	Mr Minister, now that I am free from the Kazakhgate Committee of Inquiry, I promise you a lot of questions for the next Finance Committees! Mr Minister, it is my responsibility that various Belgian teachers who have been active in Belgian private schools in Kinshasa and Lubumbashi are now facing fiscal difficulties. Their problem is twofold. On the one hand, their employer would not have paid the occupational discount for them and, on the other hand, the FPS Finance would charge them taxes on the wages collected, in apparent contradiction with the tax treaties existing between our country and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. At the very least, this is an uncomfortable situation for our fellow citizens, well rewarded for their commitment to education, under ungrateful wage, social and security conditions in the Congo and who are victims of the dysfunction of their employer. Some concerned persons could have entered into a transaction with the FPS Finances which considered that they could benefit from a tax exemption, but this is not the case for others, whereas this is a general problem. Minister, are you aware of this particular difficulty? How many of our fellow citizens are in this situation? Under what conditions can these teachers benefit from a tax exemption? Do you confirm that this has been granted to some of them but not to others? If so, could you tell me what justifies such a difference in treatment? What about the responsibility of the employer of these teachers for the payment of the professional discount? Has the FPS Finance, if any, undertaken a collection initiative against this employer? Where appropriate, to which department should the persons concerned seek a tax reconciliation in relation to their case?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u90	Mr Gilkinet, my administration is aware of the situation of some Belgian teachers in private schools in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). Under the Belgian-Congolese double taxation preventive convention, wages derived from the consideration of an activity carried out physically in the DRC may normally be taxed in that State. However, the Convention allows the exemption of a Belgian resident's Congolese source income only if the said income has been taxed in the DRC. However, the salaries of the teachers of the relevant NSAs were not normally imposed in the DRC, pursuant to a memorandum concluded between the DRC and Belgium. It follows that, for an employee of a Belgian LSA who is still a resident of the Kingdom, if his remuneration has not been imposed in the DRC, Belgium will not grant the exemption provided for in the Convention and will impose on the tax of natural persons the said remuneration. If you want to share with me concrete cases treated differently, I will have the files reviewed by the administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u91	Minister, thank you. I believe I perceive a flagrant injustice towards the teachers concerned, who acted in good faith, who committed themselves from an educational perspective in the Congo, who received a normal teacher's salary and who are being retroactively charged taxes on the meagre salary they received. It is not "comfortable" to devote a few years of his life to the education of Congolese children. There is an incomprehension or misappropriation in the employer's head because you did not respond to the payment aspect of the discount. The problem is broad enough to be the subject of special attention on your part. I understood that it involved more than one teacher. I dare not quote a number because you did not mention it yourself. As you propose, I will come back to you with concrete elements. I hope that you will be able to act in accordance with the rule of law but with the necessary flexibility in view of this very particular situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic901x.u92	Question No 25557 by Georges Gilkinet is transformed into a written question.
