ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u1	Muriel Gerkens, president: Colleagues, with my colleague, Jean-Marc Delizée, chairman of the Committee on the Economy, I propose that we begin our work. If we have asked for these two committees to meet this Monday afternoon, it is obviously because all parliamentarians want to understand what has happened. We want to know whether or not AFSCA has organized the controls within Veviba. We hope that all stakeholders and actors will be able to express themselves and that there will be an exchange of views with parliamentarians on the functioning but also on the ways forward and on the work to be considered to ensure that such situations do not occur any more. Jean-Marc Delizée, President: Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we had not met in six months' time, but we still have a major new health crisis. There are a lot of questions to each other. It was therefore logical to reconvene, unfortunately, our two committees on public health and the economy. From an economic point of view, there is all this aspect of agricultural production on which we shall return. Mr. Minister of Economy and Consumer Protection, we are pleased that you are here to participate in this debate because there are also economic issues, employment issues and bankruptcy. We're talking about social dumping in this case. There is also the whole question of consumer information and protection. As my colleague said, it was absolutely wise to meet quickly – no doubt, we will have to follow up on this work – so that we can hear you and have an exchange with all the colleagues here. Muriel Gerkens, Chair: The organization of work will be as follows. We begin by giving the floor to ministers, Minister Ducrame, Minister De Block and Minister Peeters. They'll arrange for each other. Then the AFSCA will have a presentation to make. Ideally, the entire presentation should last up to one hour, leaving room for the authors of the questions and those who want to intervene further. The quartet of rapporteurs, representing both the Committee on the Economy and Health, is as follows: Mrs Lijnen, Mr Thiéry, Mrs Dedry and Mr Senesael.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u2	Our meeting is not about limited fraud, but about large-scale fraud. That has to be said, because those are the facts. The fraud was committed by one company. The Verbist group, the owner of the company Veviba, has practices that I continue to label as mafia practices. Of course, I will not go back over the whole chronology of a company that, as I have said in recent days, did not hesitate to endanger the health of consumers for financial reasons, out of greed. It is useful to go back to the chronology of the facts. We learn that on 28 February, a large-scale action, a search, is carried out by the Prosecutor's Office of Neufchâteau in Bastogne, at the level of the infrastructures Veviba. On 6 March at 9:29 p.m., the AFSCA provided my office with an initial search and control report from 28 February to 1 March. The following chronological elements are derived from this report. Mr President, Madam President, I would like to make the report available to your respective committees. On Tuesday, March 6, 2018, the investigating judge in charge of the investigation gives the CBSAA formal authorization to use the minutes data as part of the necessary administrative actions. The search followed an investigation initiated by the investigating judge in October 2016. This instruction is based on a dossier of falsifications of foodstuffs found during the seizure of a Veviba truck by the Kosovo authorities on 22 September 2016. On 27 September 2016, the Kosovo authorities informed Belgium. On 3 October 2016, a first report was prepared by the AFSCA National Investigation Unit. On 5 October 2016, a second report was prepared. On 6 October 2016, an initial report was drawn up and transmitted on 7 October to the Office of the Prosecutor of Luxembourg, Division Neufchâteau. The findings made require the support of the Federal Judicial Police to obtain further information on these falsifications. In addition, in November 2016, AFSCA received information on a suspicion of economic fraud in the head of the Veviba company. This fraud would involve falsification of the company's internal traceability. Once all the preliminary duties had been performed by the Federal Judicial Police, the AFSCA told me that the investigating judge had authorized him to take the appropriate administrative measures. The AFSCA tells me that on this occasion I received authorization to use the offences found on February 28 by associated agents for administrative purposes. On February 28 and March 1, 2018, as I indicated, the search was carried out. There are already a number of questions about the course of events as I have just explained to you. Why did it take the investigating judge more than a year and a half, between October 2016 and the end of February 2018, to carry out a search, taking into account the information I have presented to you, in connection with the attempted export of damaged meat to Kosovo? This is a legitimate question. The fact that we are a civil party will allow us to demand answers in this regard. I'll come back. I shall now continue to present the facts of the search and the checks carried out between 28 February and 1 March. The freezer inventory could not be fully completed. Indeed, according to the data provided to us, this KF contained at least 2,000 pallets of meat. Of 200 meat pallets tested, 138, or almost 70%, were found to be non-compliant for a variety of reasons. On that occasion, the checks carried out revealed the presence of Category 3 by-products labelled as intended for human consumption, in violation of existing health standards. As a reminder, Category 3 by-products are wastes of animal origin unfit for human consumption. In this case, they were pieces of meat surrounding the bleed wound, that is, the place where the animals are slaughtered after being stunned. However, it was found that Veviba tried, at the very least, to use raw meat in the manufacture of products intended for human consumption. In addition to this offence, the AFSCA, which was naturally present in the course of this search to reinforce the services of the judge during the search, found other shortcomings related to the mention of freezing dates after the date of the search, sometimes several months, expired products, frozen products since 2001 or products without labelling and therefore without traceability. In order to protect public health, the national search unit of the BFSA decided to seize the freezing plant on 1 March. As you can see, we are dealing here with large-scale fraud and fraud involving mafia techniques. After this chronology of the facts, I would like to move on to the measures taken. We have therefore taken many steps. As early as 7 March, we took care to immediately withdraw Veviba's approval for the KF freezer, but also the cutting shop. This was how these infrastructures could be closed down. Furthermore, I also asked AFSCA to take measures to activate the precautionary principle and the administrative seizure measures which allowed us to see seals placed on all the refrigerators of the Verbiest Group throughout the country. We have also worked with the AFSCA to step up controls on all cutting plants in the same group for the entire territory. The launch of a RASFF (Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed) for other EU countries was also organised. Verification of the traceability of the meat from the refrigerator and therefore also as regards the non-conformity component was organised. We have been able, and the AFSCA was able – I will let it detail the elements relating to crisis management – within an extremely short period of time, to trace all the meat in question, namely ground meat, on the one hand, and beef tails, on the other, which were able to be removed from the market in an extremely short period of time in order to protect the consumer. As early as 7 March, we also made contact with the large distribution, and more particularly the groups that worked – I say "work", we have seen that this is no longer the case, on the basis of their decision, for the future – with the Verbist group, namely Delhaize and Colruyt. On 7 March, we also had some contacts at the regional level to inform him of the decisions taken. We asked the PSACA for a risk analysis that was provided to the Minister of Health to provide him with the first information on the health risk. Ms De Block will address this aspect of the file. We have reactivated the liaison officers we have set up in the context of the fipronil crisis in order to reassure us internationally, since, while Veviba represents 30% of the meat market in Belgium, it also exports. We have worked with our liaison officer to reactivate all contacts and exchanges of information with liaison officers established by European countries. Contact was also taken by our Agency with third countries other than European countries concerned by the export of Veviba meat. In addition, on 9 March 2018, I wrote to the investigating judge in order to be confirmed by his services that all the information relating to the judicial record, which could have consequences or at least call for arrangements for or by the AFSCA with regard to measures to be taken in the field of health security, had been transmitted on 6 March. In addition, I have asked AFSCA to produce some additional information and a full report on all the checks it has carried out on the Veviba Group since 2001. In addition, I requested that the focus be put by the AFSCA over this key period between October 2016 and February 2018, as part of the report that I have been confirmed will be submitted to me by Thursday at the latest. Since we are meeting today, and although I do not yet have all the elements of the report, I have asked AFSCA to present, Madam President, the information that it has already been able to gather on all the checks carried out with regard to this period. Let us be clear, in the report that I am asking for, I do not just want the AFSCA to communicate to us the frequency, the number of checks. I want the whole process of these controls to be exposed to us. How long did they last? By whom were they carried out? How many pieces were checked? If questions were not raised, I would not have asked for a report. I am quite clear here in Parliament, as I have already done in the media. I have very clear questions about the fact that, given the information available to me today on the controls organised between October 2016 and February 2018, the AFSCA does not ensure that, given the information it was aware of, more intensive controls are put in place than they were during this period. I will not make a mystery as to my intentions in this regard. I believe that the arrangements should have been made for the controls to be more offensive, more aggressive, given the information that has been available since October 2016 and the problem of this meat exported by Veviba to Kosovo. Given the search that found that 70% of the meat is not in compliance, I find that the contract was not fulfilled. In this regard, I have informed the Prime Minister of my willingness to conduct an audit of the AFSCA, which I have commissioned and which will focus in particular on the "control procedure" aspect. A question could naturally be asked after this information. Will this involve reforms within the AFSCA? Necessarily yes: reforms will be undertaken on the conduct of controls and on how the AFSCA draws information back to the political level. Since taking office, I have been able to observe several flaws in this area. I know that I have the support of the Prime Minister to carry out the necessary reforms in this context. So, as I said, and it's not a formula, it will take one before and one after Veviba. We must give consumers full assurance and the right of access to fully compliant and healthy food. An exercise must be carried out with all stakeholders in the meat sector, but also with consumer associations. We have a meeting with the "chain" consultation this Tuesday. We need to set up a "quality and respect for the consumer" foundation in order to take all the measures that will make it possible to improve, on a whole series of axes, our health safety - of course controls, I have mentioned - but also traceability. We must also work on labelling for consumers. The contacts I have had in this context with associations such as Test-Achats comfort me. We need to work on information that is readable to the consumer. Of course, I have made contact with colleagues in the Regions. They must be involved in this effort. This is essential if we are simply to restore consumer confidence in a sector that must not be reduced in Veviba. We obviously have quality products. We have honest people. They are not crooks, contrary to what we have seen in the context of Veviba and the mafia processes used. We must, of course, defend this sector and, beyond this audit, beyond the reforms that must be carried out at the AFSCA level, we will also have to work together with all stakeholders and consumer associations to meet an important challenge. In conclusion, Madam President, Mr President, before I gave the floor to my colleagues, as I said, we decided to register as a civil party. The invitation to tender left my firm this morning, on the basis of compliance with public procurement procedures. It is indeed a matter of constituting a civil party in order to gain access to the entire judicial file and to give us the opportunity, if necessary, to also request a supplementary investigation. On the other hand, I believe that a clear signal of zero tolerance must be sent. We must have no mercy on these fraudsters, no scruples: we must make them pay for their behaviour in the proper sense and claim damages. The impact will be clearly visible and will not be limited to the territory. This will be a violent impact for the entire industry, which already suffers internationally, in terms of image. Our country itself will have an impact. It was therefore obvious and natural that we should become a civil party. Madam President and Mr President, I have tried to be as short as possible. Of course, the technical elements will be presented by the AFSCA, who is present and who will answer the questions. I haveten to give the floor to my colleague, Mrs De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u3	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, as Minister for Health, I am of course particularly vigilant when such facts, which I deeply regret can still be prevented, are being established. As far as I am concerned, I would like to inform you and all citizens as fully as possible of the possible impact of the facts currently established on public health. Last week, for the first time, I was informed of this dossier. Last Wednesday, March 7, on noon, my office received an invitation from my colleague Minister Ducrame's office for an interdepartmental working group at 2.30 p.m., with a serious health crisis as its agenda. During this IKW I was immediately informed by my chief cabinet of the facts, which were communicated by my colleague, Minister Ducarme. Given the nature of the facts and the findings of which the government was informed, during the IKW, my head of cabinet immediately asked what information was already available on a risk analysis for the specific dossier, based on an initial assessment of the possible impact on public health. The oral risk analysis communicated by the Food Agency was at that time that it was not a potential risk but rather a potential risk. This means that there is no concrete evidence of contamination with micro-organisms, but that the precautionary principle must be applied. That same afternoon my cabinet contacted the administrations, namely the FPS Public Health and the Scientific Institute for Public Health. The same evening, i.e. Wednesday, March 7, 2018, was provided by the Department of Public Health and Surveillance, in particular by the Department of Epidemiology infectious disease unit, by the Department of Public Health and Surveillance. I quote from the mail traffic: "On the basis of the surveillance system by the vigie laboratories, I have not seen any increase since January 2018 for Salmonella, Campylobacter, Shigella, Yersinia, Listeria, Escherichia coli and Norovirus, neither globally nor in the province of Luxembourg." For your information, I would add that this is a sentinel system. The Institut de Santé publique had also informed me that, according to the opinion, there is no increase in collective foodborne illness and that there is no collective foodborne infection reported in the province of Luxembourg since January. Therefore, the trends followed by our monitoring laboratories show no signs that a higher incidence of food-related infections would have been reflected in recent months. With regard to the findings made in the Veviba company, the Food Agency indicated that the main potential risk to public health existed in the processing of category 3 meat in products for human consumption, although category 3 meat was excluded by definition according to applicable legislation and regulations. This includes meat obtained by cutting the insertion site. Because the knife crosses the skin barrier, the organisms that live on the skin can be introduced into the flesh. Although that meat should never enter the food chain, it was also used for tartar, i.e. in a product that can also be consumed raw. With regard to frozen meat, I note that there is no further growth of bacteria there due to the storage at freezing temperature. In case of frozen storage, any bacterial growth is stopped. Certain bacteria can even be destroyed during the freezing process. The microbiological quality of frozen meat therefore does not evolve. As several experts have also indicated in interviews over the past few days, this is more about the external appearance of the meat, the colour, the texture and certainly also the taste that changes after the meat has been frozen for too long, but it is not about a risk to food safety sensu stricto. I would also like to stress on this occasion the distinction between the presence of microbial organisms in food and the presence of pathogenic micro-organisms in food. It is true that the presence of microbial organisms is not necessarily also sickening. To put it simply: one does not get sick of all microbes. For a whole range of infectious diseases, and therefore also for food-related infections caused by specific pathogens, our monitoring laboratories collect information on a permanent basis. I've reported that before. The risk analysis carried out by the Food Agency's risk assessment staff was also assessed from the public health point of view. This shows that blood and meat from the stabbing site may indeed have been contaminated. A primary risk assessment was carried out at my request, on the basis of the available information, by the Risk Assessment Group (RAG), which operates within the administrations responsible for health matters. As regards the impact on public health in Belgium, on Friday 9 March the RAG informed my cabinet of the following. I quote the text originally drafted in English: "There is no indication yet of a microbial risk, no notification of unusual event to health inspection of federated entities, no signal of increased foodborne infections identified in the sentinel surveillance system. If risk for human health, probably no acute risk. On Sunday evening, a more extensive risk analysis was provided by the Risk Assessment Group. This also took into account additional information provided by the Food Agency. On the basis of last night's update, I can give you some additional elements. The food agency did a recall of the potentially contaminated meat. So there is no possibility of exposure for the population anymore. With regard to fresh meat and steertails, there is a higher risk of contamination, but the quantities of meat are low. In the case of frozen meat, the risk of microbiological contamination is less likely, but this is a larger quantity of meat. If there was a risk to human health, it may not be an acute risk. We can never rule out that some of the observed cases would be associated with food put on the market by the company concerned. A retrospective risk analysis needs additional information such as the type of pathogens, the duration of the fraud, the use of the products and the possibility of establishing a causal link between goods and possible cases. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the committee, the government makes strict regulations, which we therefore have at our disposal to ensure maximum protection of public health. All precautions must be taken to protect public health. If there is malicious intent and, as in this case, fraud, we take it very seriously. I believe I can reassure you today with the information on the follow-up of the case on the basis of the data known to me since 7 March, as well as with the information on how the risk of food-related infections is proactively monitored from the point of view of public health. It goes without saying that extreme vigilance is and remains necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I can be brief. Firstly, as Minister for Consumers, I naturally agree with my two colleagues. The consumer who buys meat to be eaten must be sure that the necessary checks have been carried out and that all precautions have been taken. I agree with Mr Ducarme who, following this unfortunate incident, will take further action, which I will naturally fully support on consumer issues. Secondly, as Minister for Economic Affairs, I would like to say the following. Of course, this is about an entire chain. We must also take the necessary initiatives to ensure that after this incident the entire chain does not fall victim to this unfortunate fraud. The necessary initiatives are also being taken in this area. Thirdly, as Minister for Employment, I would like to bring two elements to your attention. To begin with, we have, of course, looked at the staff employed in Bastogne. Last year the Social Inspectorate found that, in addition to a number of permanent workers, there are also posted workers. On 17 October 2017, 67 people were posted there through an office in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, and 10 posted through an office in Portugal. The Social Inspectorate informed the public that this element will be taken into account for further research. The Social Inspectorate is, of course, also at the service of the public prosecutor's office in this area, in order to ascertain whether any irregularities have been detected and how they should be dealt with further by the public prosecutor. The following element relates to temporary unemployment for economic reasons, le chômage temporale pour cause économique. You know very well that temporary unemployment for economic reasons is only possible if there is a lack of work due to economic factors. In this case, the employer can no longer maintain the current pace of work in his company due to economic factors, and this is temporarily. You are aware of the conditions for temporary unemployment for economic reasons, so I will not list them all. You know that there is a second part, namely temporary unemployment because of force majeure, and the conditions of this are also known to you, so I can be brief. As a benefit for economic unemployment, workers receive an amount equal to 65% of their limited average wage. The following is important to underline. Last Wednesday and Thursday, my firm took part in meetings with the AFSCA and of course the offices of Minister Ducrame and the Walloon Region, as well as the cabinet of Mrs De Block. Last Friday there were contacts, by telephone and by e-mail, between my cabinet, Veviba and the RVA. The company at Bastogne has requested temporary unemployment for reasons of force majeure for 28 workers and 29 servants. During these contacts, my cabinet informed the company that it was obliged to continue paying the wages of the workers concerned. What's the conclusion for now? We must, of course, look at that further. Since the causes of temporary unemployment in Veviba are not outside the employer's control, it is entirely responsible for this. The company does not meet the conditions required for it to be able to rely on temporary unemployment, reimbursed by the RVA. The employer is therefore obliged to continue paying employees' wages. I would not like the staff to suffer from very fraudulent practices on the part of the employer. I will look into this further in order to provide the staff with an answer, possibly on the basis of unemployment for economic reasons. For the record, when an employer does fraudulent business, my colleague even talks about mafia practices, he should not escape his responsibility by applying for temporary unemployment very quickly and thus not sticking to his commitments to his staff. Of course, other companies, which enter the processing chain after Veviba, are entitled to do so. This is the state of play with regard to employees. This is not comparable to the egg crisis last time. They are not eligible for temporary unemployment, but I would not like the staff to have to bear the consequences for something for which they are not responsible. Muriel Gerkens, Chair: Thank you. We shall now turn the floor to Mr Diricks, for the AFSCA.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u5	Madam President, I have prepared a presentation to explain what the Agency's approach was. The presentation is in French. We have not had the time to make a bilingual presentation, so I will comment in Dutch. In the Veviba dossier, we would like to first of all explain how the Agency operates. A first aspect that we want to mention is the way in which our controls are organised and how we carry out our routine checks. In view of the previous interventions, a number of slides may be double, but I will try to get over that quickly. I would like to point out once again that the Agency has a system of recording inspection programmes at inspection frequencies, starting from the Directorate-General for Control Policy. We also have laboratories that do internal analyses. We have a support service, of course, but the checks themselves are carried out on the ground on the basis of the monitoring programmes drawn up by common agreement and on the basis of a proposal from the Directorate-General for Control. What does the organisation of these controls look like? First of all, in addition to the Directorate-General for Control, where the control programme is drawn up, we have a number of central technical services which convert the high-level control programmes into instructions, the way in which they work on the ground, and which examine how checks on the ground should be carried out in a practical way. The coordination is done by the cell we call NICE, the National Implementation and Coordination Unit. As a result of the savings, we have also had to reorganise our outdoor services. They are no longer provincial control units but local control units which cover a larger territory than the former provinces. Two important aspects are being carried out there, namely on-the-spot checks and the management of what we call the veterinarians responsible, whether they are the contractors, and these are persons who are also carrying out checks on behalf of the Agency. The Minister referred to the Unité nationale d'Enquête (UNE), in Dutch the National Investigation Unit (NOE). Within the Agency, this unit was established to carry out specialised investigations to detect fraud. In an international context, this unit also has an important role to play when dealing with certain issues. Now I come to the heart of the matter, in particular the answer to the question of how we organise the controls. In the first instance, we carry out inspections on the site with all operators, based on a prior inspection frequency. Not only do we define the inspection frequencies, but we also define in a checklist what needs to be checked. In the inspection frequencies we have laid down the basis of our control programme. We define in what way and with what frequency we control operators. There are two aspects to this. Some of the inspections have been established on the basis of the legislation. For meat processing establishments, this is the decision inspection frequency, which I will explain shortly. Another part of the inspections has been established on the basis of a risk analysis. For example, in a café or in a catering establishment we have to visit less than in a cutting plant. The inspection programme shall be built up taking into account the relationship in risk between the different activities. We are looking at what we can do with our people and resources. In this way the inspection frequencies are recorded. Inspection frequencies have been frozen for years. You can always consult them on our website. To the advisory committee, in which all stakeholders are represented, both operators and consumer organisations, we set out how much and what we control every year. I therefore believe that we are very transparent about this: we explain how and why we arrive at these frequencies. In addition to the inspection frequency, there is also the sampling programme, according to the same principle, although there are less legally prescribed frequencies. For example, in the case of imports of certain products from third countries for a particular destination, the frequency of sampling is determined. We're doing a risk assessment. We're looking into what's within our capabilities. Then we continue to analyse these products. It is nice to plan every year, but we have to bear in mind that there are still a lot of controls to be carried out outside the control programme. In the distribution sector, for example, we follow up many complaints from consumers. Within the framework of the primary sector, we must act regularly to combat animal disease. We must also follow RASFF messages, food toxins and imports and exports, among other things. Our national control unit also carries out checks, of course. As regards controls in companies such as Veviba, there is a system with inspection frequencies and a frequency duration laid down in a royal decree. That KB determines that there are three types of inspection frequencies. Type 2 is the base from which we leave. In a slaughterhouse, for example, we carry out four inspections a year. Attention, in a slaughterhouse, a distinction must be made between general inspections of hygiene in a slaughterhouse and inspections carried out by inspectors. We have developed a system that is fixed in the KB and that determines whether we should increase or reduce inspection frequencies per year. In summary, if one has an auto-control system and does not have a record, one can fall into the system of reduced inspection frequencies. If that is not the case, we will remain on the line. If a lot of non-conformitys have been established, we'll go to type 3. You should really assume that in the case of a company such as Veviba, which actually consists of several parts, in which there are also different activities, we organise the controls by activity, not per company, that the frequencies are fixed in the Royal Decree and that we apply them as well. As for the next slide, there was quite a bit of press comment on the respective efforts in the different sectors. We have about 180 inspectors in the field of agriculture, 15 inspectors for 140 slaughterhouses, 126 controllers for the food processing sector or transformation and 178 controllers for a good 102 000 operators, restaurants and cafes in distribution. So it's not right at all that we focus our attention on distribution. I think that the figures clearly show that, relatively speaking, we are doing most of the control efforts in relation to the sectors of transformation and slaughterhouses. There was also a lot of talk about the unannounced checks. I have listed the measures taken by the Agency. In the first instance, of course, we apply European legislation, which requires that controls should be unannounced. This requirement is also always clearly given to our inspectors and the veterinarians by order. They all have to encode every check. The official responsible for those checks within the local control unit shall review that encrypted data. This is about 10% of the officials carrying out checks and 10% of the vets on duty. If there are paying checks, the duration of the inspection on a certificate of inspection shall be fixed. We have had a charter from the controller since the beginning of the Agency, which clearly states that he must behave in an orderly and honest manner. I'm sure he can't accept anything, no matter what they say. Moreover, people on site are monitored at least twice a year. In order to prevent veterinary surgeons on orders, who often carry out checks in cutting plants, in slaughterhouses or wherever, from checking the same holdings, we ensure that they are rotated. It must therefore be clear and clear that our people have a clear mandate to do all the checks they carry out unannounced. For someone standing on the work floor, a person coming over the floor is always regarded as an inspector. These companies often carry out third-party audits, which are not of the Agency. In that case, it may well be that these controls have been announced. The Agency shall carry out unannounced checks. I can't be any clearer on that. We also had to hear that there were complaints from third parties. I would like to explain what happens in the Agency if a third party complaint is made. We have two types of complaints from third parties. There is the information that comes from the other authorities about a particular operator, for example from the Region. In that case, we will actually check all the information received on the premises. There's another set of information coming from outside. Those are the so-called PKOs. These are complaints from an operator against an operator or, including, an internal employee's complaint against his employer. All complaints we have received in the past about operators, either from other governments or from other operators, were checked. No one has ever informed the Agency of what was going on at the company. We can show you, with documents and registers, that every complaint filed will be followed up. We've classified the types of complaints. On the basis of the type of complaint, we may or may not follow up on a specific investigation. You will notice, there is a slight evolution in the number of complaints. The last year there were about 250 complaints for both categories, i.e. from an operator about another operator and from the government about an operator, which we followed up. I would like to show that once a complaint has been lodged with the Agency, it will actually be followed up. Apparently, now a lot of people are commenting on the way they work. I can only conclude that they have not said anything to the Agency for years, when those possibilities were clear. To give you an idea of how well-founded the complaints were, I added this slide. Most of the complaints we received were well founded. This applies both to the complaints of the operators and to those of the other authorities. With regard to the Veviba dossier, I would nevertheless like to draw attention to a number of issues. We have also heard that people were wondering how it could happen when people from the Agency were present. One must be very clear that Veviba is a very large company in itself. You will see an aerial photo, with which we want to show how complex the company is and how the different parts are connected to each other. It is true that inspectors and veterinarians are present in a slaughterhouse throughout the slaughter process, which is laid down by law, but in other parts of the holding inspections are carried out at the inspection frequency laid down in the Royal Decree inspection frequencies. In order to make that a little more transparent, I would like to use this scheme. We've got the slaughterhouse. The Minister spoke about Category 3 material. It is true that the animals are of course slaughtered in the slaughterhouse. Carcasses approved for human consumption may then go to a certain refrigeration plant. The material in category 3, the material that should not be used, must be kept physically separate. It can be stored in a fridge. It needs to be stored in a fridge. This was done at Veviba in a fridge intended for the final disposal of that category 3 material to a processor approved by the Region. The carcasses shall be sent to the slaughterhouse refrigeration plant. Afterwards, they go to the cooling plant of the cutting plant. That's where the carcasses are cut out. Those carcasses end up in the cutting plant. The products of the cutting plant can be transferred directly to the customers or stored in the freezer. Products can also be made, e.g. minced meat, which are delivered directly. The company also carried out slaughters for third parties. The carcasses of the slaughters carried out for third parties were stored in the cold store for extradition. In short, there is a whole system of successive installations which are checked by the Agency in a different way, with a different frequency. What is clear and clear in this scheme and what was also, of course, clear in Veviba's internal procedures was that the Category 3 material should never or never enter the cutting plant, something that our inspectors have indeed established at the time of the raid. It is also the case that everything starts with the inspection at the slaughterhouse: in the slaughterhouse the inspector must supervise the entire animal. Of course, one can only make statements about the whole animal that has been inspected. If pieces of meat are removed beforehand, they must not be intended for human consumption. The law is very clear on this, just as it is very clear on Category 3 material. The various controls carried out by the Agency are summarised in the following table. Twelve inspections were carried out in 2016, three of which were carried out under the inspection plan. Two inspections were carried out in the KF, one under the inspection plan. In 2017, eight inspections were carried out, three of which were carried out under the inspection plan. Why have more inspections been carried out? This is sometimes done at the request of the company seeking recognition. If we have made any observations, a second check must be carried out. Two inspections have already been carried out in 2018. We also want to stress that inspections do not always take place at the same time. We also regularly organise special actions, for example in 2016 we did a special action in which we checked all cutting plants in our country on a Saturday. However, we did not find any non-conformity at the time. I will conclude with this brief overview of the results of the inspections. A number of analyses were also carried out by the Agency, which were correct. In particular, however, we would like to stress that, in addition to the Agency's actions, many other controls have been carried out in the company. Audits were carried out under the auto-control system, audits were carried out in the framework of a specifications book to operate in the distribution, audits were carried out by FEBEV and Belbeef, checks were carried out very regularly by customers. We could say that they were almost permanently present. The regions were also present for the classification of carcasses and organic production in general. I'll give you a brief overview of what happened in our investigation. We have indeed received a complaint from Kosovo. It was examined on the spot by an Agency auditor. He's made a number of observations. I'll get back to you on that. We've prepared a report for the courthouse. During the following months, a legal investigation was carried out which ultimately led to a search of the premises. We have then asked, in view of the fact that we no longer wanted to be in a situation in which we could not take action in the interests of the secrecy of the investigation, to produce a special report which allowed us to carry out the administrative follow-up. That is to say, on the basis of the findings of that report, we have withdrawn the approval of both the cold store and the cutting plant. Meanwhile, the legal investigation continues. However, we would like to point out that what has been established in Kosovo was not at all related to what we have now established in the cutting plant. What we established in Kosovo were matters relating to the cold store. Our research focused mainly on changing labels, lack of labels and falsifying freezing data. We just talked about Category 3. That's meat from animals that have been inspected by the judges. The meat of these animals is obviously suitable for human consumption, but the law explicitly stipulates that a number of things should not be used and automatically becomes Category 3, in particular the stab wounds that were mentioned. There are also the products that are declassified by the operator. The principle is: if a piece was once declassified by an operator, it must never return to the chain. That is the principle of category 3, against which Verbist in particular has sinned. What were the most important aspects on which we based our administrative actions of closure, follow-up, withdrawal and recall? That was the fact that stab wounds should not be legally present. There is no need to carry out a lot of risk analysis, it is simply not permitted by law. The operator knew that very well, because he first stored them in bins of category 3. The reason for this is that there is an increased risk of microbiological contamination. We have confirmed this earlier in the risk analysis. In addition, there was the burdensome element that the products were used in minced meat. As far as the tails were concerned, it was equally simple. They were not subject to an inspection, so they were never allowed to be sold. We have therefore recalled them from the trade. After we found that there were very many non-conformitys in that cold store, we immediately closed it. The Minister has already addressed this. I understand that both consumers and MEPs have questions, but we are trying to cooperate as correctly as possible, especially in the case of indications of fraud. That is always the reasoning of the Agency. This was about fraud that had no direct impact on public health. We immediately submitted the file to the public prosecutor. If there's an investigation going through the courthouse, our people, even if they're involved, will be covered by the secret of the investigation. After the search, of course, we immediately asked for at least the information to be available in order to take the necessary administrative measures. We have carried out regular investigations, inspections and inspections on the ground, as shown very clearly by my previous slides. However, we would like to emphasise the fact that, as far as possible, we wanted to cooperate correctly with the court, which was conducting a very important investigation. For such an investigation, our Agency certainly does not have the resources. I think it would be particularly annoying for the ongoing judicial investigation if a parallel investigation were to be launched by the Agency. In doing so, I have explained our vision and our way of working. I repeat that we fully understand the concerns. The Minister for Health has clearly stated that matters relating to public health were under control. With all the people and resources we have, we want to carry out a monitoring programme as correctly as possible. In addition, if necessary, we also support the courts with the people and resources we have at our disposal. Jean-Marc Delizée, President: Thank you, Mr Diricks, for your presentation and explanation. I would also like to thank Mrs and Messrs. Ministers for the same fiscal year. Colleagues, on the agenda, the floor will now be for colleagues who have tabled oral questions. Mrs Gerkens and I, who have a question, agreed to put them at the end of the list. Of course, colleagues who have not tabled a question will also be able to speak later. I will ask everyone to self-discipline with regard to speaking time in order to allow us to have a full debate (question-response-replicate). Mr Jean-Marc Nollet has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u6	Mr President, Madam President, thank you. Minister Ducrame, I wanted to address you. I am angry and I think I'm not the only one: many of our fellow citizens and actors in the food system are also angry. You say it yourself: an important player, since he occupies 30% of the market share, is mafia. These are your terms. For months and years, this mafia worked and sold meat in Belgium and abroad without our control system being able to detect it. That's not right! It is unacceptable, on the very principle, not to be able, in 2018, to control and detect mafia acts in our food system. No one can stand it! If I am also angry, it is because you are sitting next to you, the head of the Agency, who, for three days, has been in the most complete denial of the ability to operate its control system. How can we tolerate that again today, he comes to tell us that the procedure has worked as it should and, therefore, that everything is fine, when - as you yourself say, Minister - we are facing a mafia? We cannot accept it! I ask you, in your capacity as the appropriate minister, to intervene quickly with the officials of the Agency to stop using this denial speech in the light of such a serious situation. You used harsh, but fair terms. However, you cannot tolerate, as the appropriate minister, that your Agency - on television sets, on radio, here again in Parliament - should show such a denial. I therefore ask you to act very quickly. The Agency's spokesperson and officials hold the same speech. Mr Minister, you know very well, for having already lived with the fipronil crisis, that this does not help to build trust between the citizen, the consumer and the control system. It is about the health of hundreds and millions of citizens, and not just in Belgium. We can see from the way in which this Veviba company was organized that this rotten or spoiled meat took the direction of countries a little further away. Minister, if I'm angry, it's because seven months ago, we were here, in the middle of August, facing another health crisis. We had triggered the alarm signals. Everything that is happening today, everything that is going to be said today, you can read it again in the report of the time. Now, at the time, your speech was, "AFSCA did the job." At the same time, AFSCA was already aware of what had happened in Kosovo. At the same time, AFSCA was not managing this other crisis, that of meat, while fipronil was causing damage to us too. And at the same time, you say the AFSCA is doing its job. I invite you, Minister, to review your speech, including that of the time, in relation to what the AFSCA does or does not do. How can we accept that the excuse that is still used today is that justice has the file in hand? Do you think for a moment that citizens, consumers can accept that, as justice has the case in hand, the AFSCA must not react? Justice is doing its job, but the AFSCA must of course do its own. It is not acceptable to say that it has entered the black box of justice and that we will see when it emerges. We cannot live with such a system of food security. It is not for this, and it is not like this, that it was thought. You know that. That is why you have acknowledged that you too have questions to ask. But we have to go beyond that. Let us be clear – I am also speaking to colleagues from the traditional parties – that an audit is not enough. It's the AFSCA software you need to see again! It is the people who wear it that must be seen again. It is the model that underlies it that needs to be revisited. It is this model that was already found in the fipronil crisis, which we find today and which we already found in other crises before. We must have the courage to tackle the agri-food model! You'll have to go to the end and not just ask for an audit of the AFSCA! It would be too easy! Of course, fuses will have to jump, but the model and software will have to be thoroughly reviewed. That will be your job, Minister! You won't have a third chance! This is the second time we have to meet for a food crisis. There won't be a third in your leader. I hope that, in any case, and for you and for consumers, because behind that, obviously, the question of trust arises. When the Agency tells us that "everything is under control, everything has been done the right way", what is the message it sends in terms of trust? That this trust, the consumer cannot have it! What is the guarantee that for 18 months and probably even more, Belgian consumers or consumers abroad did not consume damaged meat? I hear the statistics of the Minister of Health and I thank her for giving us the first indications. We know the work is still going on and it's normal to clarify things. However, on the very principle, namely that for at least eighteen months and probably much more, have been circulating on the food market, products that are "damaged" – that's your term, Minister – products that are rotten and products that are voluntarily placed on the market, while they cannot – you mentioned 2001 dates in the freezers! –, this is obviously unacceptable! It is totally wrong to say that because justice is dealing with it, there is nothing we can do. I don't understand that AFSCA didn't go to the freezers earlier. It's incomprehensible! There is no explanation in your data. You say you've done conventional checks. Tell us, sir, how many times you went to see in Veviba's freezers when you knew since 2016 that meat destined for Kosovo had been anti-dated! If I am not mistaken, and according to reports from Kosovo, the dates found there are 2014. That's why they refused the meat. I do not understand that at your level, when you receive this signal and information from Kosovo, you do not act otherwise and you do not come to check what is happening in the company at this time! Justice is doing its job, but our oversight agency must also do its priority work. That's where your fault lies. This is not between what happened on February 28 and March 3 or 7, between the search at the end of February and March 3 or 7, when you reacted – it can be accepted that it takes a few days to act and react. However, between September 2016 and February-March 2018, while you are in possession of information on the falsification of labels by this company, for Kosovo but probably for elsewhere as well, it was at that time that you should have acted. You told us in committee in August: "When AFSCA detects non-compliant samples, the operation is blocked." This was your speech in the transcript, on page 25 of our committee's report of 7 August 2017. When you find in Kosovo that samples are not compliant because the expiry dates have been falsified, according to you, the operation had to be blocked. Why didn't you? Many citizens ask themselves this question, but it is not just them. I want to talk about the players in the system, the farmers and the farmers who will be the first victims of your inaction at the level of the AFSCA. They also trusted you and today they are the ones who will pay the tribute, the consequences. We already see that. The Minister of Employment gave us first indications. And other victims will follow in the coming weeks. Other farms will be ruined because you were unable to react properly! Yes, I'm mad at what happened! I ask you, minister, to go to the end of the reflection, not just on people or on the control software, but on the very model of operation that makes these big companies get out of it and that 30% of the market is in the hands of the mafia today, in your own words! To say that justice can serve as an alibi is something that I cannot accept, also on the basis of what you said here in August. I repeat your words, Mr. Diricks, concerning fipronil: "I don't think we've tried to hide behind the secrecy of the investigation; the prosecutor's office hasn't forbidden us anything. I can assure you that if anything had been relevant to the protection of public health, we would have published it and we would have acted." When you had information in September or October – in addition, you sent someone to Kosovo – that this company was falsifying labels, isn't that enough to tell you that there was a risk in terms of public health? Was it not enough for you, when you discovered products dating back to 2001 in the freezers, to decide to put the seals, to analyze everything in depth? No, since you decided to perform routine checks. This is obviously unacceptable! Minister, the report should be provided to you by Thursday night. It will not take you long to take action on this issue. It will not take an in-depth audit to take the first steps in relation to the elements I have just mentioned. These are not new elements. These are facts that have been known for a few days now and have undermined the necessary trust. In August, you said, Mr. Diricks, that cooperation with justice was particularly good. We see the result today! But what makes me most angry is the denial that you continue to register in spite of the facts. When I say that the model has to change, as I already said at the time of fipronil, I mean that the self-control on which your system is based, your software is not enough. It is not enough and it can no longer be the "heart" for large companies. In doing so, they are whitening – here I use the terms related to the seriousness of the remarks the minister made on the mafia system. Jean-Marc Delizée, President: Mr Nollet, may I remind you that I have asked the speakers to show self-discipline and to respect the speaking time allocated to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u7	Of course. Tell me how long I have left and I'll align myself. Jean-Marc Delizée, Chair: I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u8	Tell me how long I have left. Jean-Marc Delizée, Chair: You have already spoken for more than 10 minutes. I therefore ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u9	So I conclude, Mr. President. The tutelage – remember, the Minister of Health, we already had an exchange on this in August – must absolutely indicate that the priority is the protection of the health of the citizen. So she must come back to you, Madam Minister. This is by no means a personal question, Mr Ducrame. This is a functional, structural, organizational issue. Administering the AFSCA must be the responsibility of the Minister of Public Health. But that will not be enough if we do not question the model in which we are. I still have two small questions that I would like to ask to try to understand better, despite everything, what has happened. Mr. Diricks, when was the last time you checked Veviba's freezers? And when did you warn the political power? I heard Mr. Borsus on television this weekend, who said he wasn't notified at any time. I heard Mr. Ducrame, but I would like to be sure that I was not mistaken. He told us he was warned at the February-March 2018 hinge. When you came here in August and you were already being questioned about the fact that political power had to be warned in such situations, you told us that as soon as you found that the problem was serious, you informed the minister. Which means that what happened in Kosovo wasn't important to you? Not serious enough to alert the political power? I would like to know when you informed the successive minister(s). I believe that there are many serious mistakes in this case, and that they cannot remain unanswered. Mr Ducrame, I turn one last time to you for this first speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u10	Mr President, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said and repeated, two health crises in nine months, it is a lot and it makes us move from a dubious state to a state of despondency! This is a lot, especially since one feels like living a bis repetita compared to fipronil. The same question about the attitude of the PSAB, even astonishment to learn that the Minister was not aware of anything, or at least not of everything, while a judicial investigation is under way. Same complaints from consumer associations that report piecemeal information, and I'm going through with it. And on the other hand, the minister, who spreads in Matamores, both in the press and in parliament. We're going to call up "quality and respect" seats. The minister is going to sue for damages. There will be one before and one after Veviba. The health risk is under control. Apart from crisis communication in the sense of ministerial communication so as not to lose face, what has really changed since the fipronil crisis? Even though I acknowledge, Mr.Minister, that your speech before this House has been hardened with regard to the AFSCA. By keeping the system as it exists and as it has just been described, what tells us that we will not live, in a few months, a ter repetita? Although I listened to you, Minister, I cannot understand that such a scandal was not made public earlier, because of the following factors: a repeated complaint lodged in Kosovo in September 2016, 18 months ago, a trade union which states that these fraudulent practices have been denounced for four or five years by the workers, the newspaper Le Soir which indicates that meat from 2001 – it has just been recalled – was found in the cold storage in Veviba. It is therefore a chronology that extends not over eighteen months but over almost 17 years! How is it that the PSAB did not take administrative action, such as recall, withdrawal earlier? It's incomprehensible. This is unacceptable. It is regrettable, Minister, that you have no information to deliver at this stage. You said that you had requested, on Wednesday, a full report on the checks carried out by the AFSCA for the last two years. This report will come back to you on Thursday at the end of the day. Was it not possible to press your services so that you could be transparent this Monday before the Assembly. In addition to the question of why the AFSCA did not say anything, another question forces the parallel with the fipronil. How come the minister didn't know anything? Here again, we learn that the cabinet and the minister are not aware of this problem that occurred in Kosovo two years ago. That seems unimaginable to me. When Laurette Onkelinx was Minister of Health, the firm held a weekly meeting with the FPS DG. This is exactly the kind of information we were discussing. Mr. Ducrame, in your policy note, you announced that a protocol between the firm and the administration would be in place to ensure good communication between you and your services. What has been done about the relationship between the Minister and his services? Let us remember that the first task of a minister and his cabinet is to exercise democratic control over what his administration is doing. This requires close and frequent contact. Since Fipronil, what has evolved in terms of communication and information to consumers? Again, we hear the same criticisms and grievances. Test-Achats calls, as in the Fipronil era, for a list of suspected lots to be communicated, and for consumers to be treated as adults, giving them the opportunity to choose knowingly. The distributors are also furious. For lack of information, Comeos tells us, thousands of products have been removed from the shelves. Some have probably been unnecessary, putting us at the limit of shameful waste. This hiatus between what the CBSA considers useful and the actions taken in the large distribution are problematic. First, they fuel uncertainty and leave a doubt. However, the consumer hates uncertainty. What have we done since the horse-meat lasagna scandal? We find here the same uncertainty about the composition of certain minced meat products. Another issue is self-control. This self-control was put in place ten years ago and clearly shows its limits. During the Fipronil crisis, many pointed to this, but the minister made another speech. I quote: "Self-control has worked well since it allowed us to detect the problem". This system should be assessed today in the light of recent events. The lack of impact of public controls on the detection of anomalies in the food chain is striking. This is all the more worrying here because it is an operator who alone accounts for 30% of production. I come to a request from our political group. Last October Minister Ducrame said: "Everyone who has been able to manage a crisis knows that procedures are not changed in times of crisis. It's the last thing to do." In November 2017, the same Minister Ducrame rejected an application for an audit of the AFSCA submitted to the Economic Commission, on the grounds that an internal evaluation of some specific elements would be conducted and sufficient. According to the majority, the AFSCA is already subject to sufficient external evaluations. To add an audit did not seem to him to be relevant. That was not our point of view during the fipronil crisis – and it is still not, minister. The PS also reiterates its request for a full audit of the AFSCA. I come to another thought. What is the point of launching campaigns to promote white-blue-Belgian in the Walloon Region or of organising missions abroad, as in China, to boast the quality of our meat if we are not able to guarantee full compliance with the most basic hygiene standards? We know that originally, at the time of Mrs Aelvoet, the Ministry of Public Health was in charge of AFSCA. It was followed by Rudy Demotte, who also held Health and AFSCA in his giron. It is since Minister Laruelle that the Agency is no longer part of Public Health, while its staff is mostly from it – whether it is the General Food Inspectorate or the Institute of Veterinary Expertise. This change may have led to frustration among some public servants. For us, Minister, the AFSCA must return to its exclusive core business, which is the protection of consumer health. That is why it must be under the exclusive supervision of the Minister of Public Health. In this case, we need a full-time minister to deal with this matter, and not – forgive me for the expression – a representative who travels around the world to boast about the goods, while it is the health of the consumer that is at stake. I have a few more questions to finish. We are told today that there is no more problem. AFSCA announced on Friday 9 March that the tracing of cows' tails and minced meat from Veviba was complete and that, I quote: "What is in the trade is safe and can be consumed". Point on the line? No! No, minister, we'd like to know where the damage was. According to testimony, products whose expiry date had been changed were sent abroad, notably to Greece, Kosovo or Africa. Is it the damaged food that has been disposed of preferably abroad? If so, where? Or is fraud done without discrimination between Belgium and abroad? Finally, what is the current state of health risk? The Minister of Health issued a reassuring statement at the end of Friday's Council of Ministers. She told us that a permanent check carried out by the Scientific Institute of Public Health had not revealed any particular increase in food-related infections. What exactly does this message mean, minister? If the fraud of an actor who accounts for 30% of the Belgian market has been going on for years, how can we objective a significant increase in conditions? What is the methodology? What is the truth value of the message delivered by the Minister of Health? Madam President, Mr President, this is the state of our thinking and our questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u11	I, along with my colleagues, am very disappointed and very indignant, but perhaps most of all truly disappointed. You will be quoted very much here today, Minister, because you made a lot of statements during the fipronil crisis. You said, among other things, that such food crises would still occur in the future: 'Let us not be naive'. I told you at the time that I thought that was a very cynical remark for a fresh minister, but your words were prophetic, because here we are now, a few months later, not yet pregnant, in a new crisis. Today you put your top man in the wind. You're telling me what you're gonna do, but I'm not hearing what you've done in the last few months. I didn't hear anything about that. In this context, too, I have a number of quotes from you, at the time of the fipronil crisis, about what you would do in the following months. Now you're just repeating those things. I want to know what you've done. You're talking about an audit. How many times did we say during the fipronil crisis that an audit was needed? You have taken up this point with all the relevant ministers. There was no need for an audit, because the food agency worked perfectly. You are now talking about zero tolerance. We would have asked and demanded just that because people should be sure of what is on their plate. It is about food safety and about health. You are now talking about traceability. That is what you talked about at the time, but apparently you did not do anything about it. You are talking for the first time, in addition to the audit, about the thorough restructuring or monitoring of the functioning of the Federal Agency. Let that be precisely the point on which we have been calling and to which you replied, because there were no problems. I see you're coming down again with a large, very detailed timeline. We are used to that; that was also the case during the fipronil crisis. It is a sort of list of all sorts of things, in which it says what was done at the time. That reminds me very much of the way in which we were then informed of everything that might have been done. I once again note that it was not until 7 March 2018 that the Minister of Health informed De Block. That sounds very fipronilish. Even then, we were given a very long timeline of months and years ago, in order to conclude that the ministers who should have been aware of whether the government that should have been informed had been informed very late. Minister Ducarme, what bothers me most is that you are talking about the precautionary principle, when everything you have set out has nothing to do with post hoc actions. Let me now turn to Minister De Block. Madam Minister, you, too, state that you can reassure us and that there is no more risk. There's no more risk. That, too, is a post hoc investigation. The consumer can almost see that he was lucky again that his meat had not been contaminated. After all, there is no risk and no risk. I expect a food safety agency to prevent something from lying wrong on my plate and not to say that it is relieved that there is no risk and that there has been no risk. That is post hoc and I do not think it is the right way to implement a fully-fledged agency that works well. I think it is very important to me to have something to do with controls. Mr Diricks, you have given us a thorough overview of the checks. But this isn't what I'm getting from the food agency's figures. I can only note that the number of controls has fallen dramatically between 2014 and 2016. From 2012 to 2014, this number increased. For 2014, I found 130 546 checks. That number fell to 122 720 in 2015 and even lower, to 119 487, in 2017. I therefore do not understand your slides on the number of checks, showing an increase. What the previous speakers have already said, and what I absolutely want to emphasise, is that this is not just about targeting a top official. There's no point. It is absolutely important to look at the structure and functioning of the food agency. All the partners, including the Farmers' Union and so on, agree that this must be done with united forces. However, as I said on the occasion of the fipronil crisis, food safety and the BFSA belong to Health. I support the previous speakers. I put it that way in all the keys back then. The history I explained back then is there. We come from two control services, one for Agriculture and one for Health. It was because of the dioxin crisis and the malfunctioning of those two services, between which there was no exchange of information and which even opposed each other, that the BFSA was decided to set up. History has its rights. It was then decided to merge these two services and place them under Public Health. Minister Ducarme, I hope you will take this point with you in your advancing insight. We have already been right on all these other points. I think you should follow us on this point as well. Finally, I have a few small questions for Mr Diricks. I am sorry, but as in the case of the fipronil crisis, I find it particularly regrettable that you are shooting into a defense cramp. That sounds like the BFSA is somewhat foreign to the world. You're talking about inspection frequencies, which are different by sector. You explain that intellectually, but what are we going to do with that, if there is apparently a leak that checks are coming? Whether they are announced or not, if they are leaked, which apparently has happened several times, what are we with inspection frequencies and some sort of rational control programme? Finally, you also talked about the vets on assignment. These are people who are not self-employed, who are self-employed. I remember working with Mrs Aelvoet from the start of the Agency because there were not enough resources to put everyone into large numbers as an employed person. However, it is a fact that you do not have the same treatment for veterinary surgeons as for employed persons. In the past there have been serious problems with this and I think there are now again. It is therefore essential that there be more resources for the food agency in order to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u12	How many more times are we gonna meet here? I note with colleagues and ministers that we are beginning to find each other, but perhaps it will be necessary a few more times before we find each other completely. Once again, we are faced with a scandal in the meat industry. It's another food scandal, this time about the meat. A while ago, it was about the slaughterhouses. Sometimes it's about the processing meat industry. There is, however, one constant: each time we watch with impotence what the Federal Food Chain Safety Agency has done with the crisis. And this again. Consumers are the victims; the farmers, who mean well, are the victims. The story is repeated over and over again. Last summer, in the debate on the fipronil crisis, we were accused of blowing things up, because there was no big problem and the federal food agency did a good job. Mr Diricks was then supported by the Minister. I noticed that very much then, because I keep my eye on the body language. However, I am very pleased with what I see today. I see Minister Ducarme has seen the light, unlike August. Minister Ducarme has seen the light and is much less amical with the top man of the federal food agency. He is beginning to follow the MEPs. And that's good. If we're happy, we'll say the same thing. After all, we are a little tired of listening to the story that there are food crises and that the Federal Food Agency is working excellently. Then where's the problem? I don't know. The fact is that I asked in August to take one and take it further seriously. Well, already in February 2017, the Court of Auditors, not the first body, asked to examine the Federal Food Agency. It even suggested recommendations for better functioning. So far, nothing has happened to that effect. I hope that something will happen in the future. That a year and eight months ago a country like Kosovo had to tell Belgium that our Belgian meat was not good, I find it very serious. What I and many people find even more serious is that after a year and eight months there has not yet been any action in the company where irregularities have been detected by the Federal Food Agency, because, according to the Food Agency, the file is pending before the court and cannot do anything about it. Mr Diricks, as you say in interviews, you should not check computers in companies. We do not require that of you and your authority. We require you to check the meat. The Minister also demands that of you and the people. We cannot hear another story in the future that there is a crisis, that it is known that there is rotten meat, but that the food agency is not doing anything, because the judicial investigation is under way. We will no longer accept that, and the people will not accept that either. That is all the more true, since today we have to learn that you have not been to the farm until after 18 months and that when you checked 200 of the 2 000 palettes, why were there no 2 000 tests, moreover, found that 133 of them contain non-compliant meat. Many of us ask whether we have used non-compliant meat in the eighteen months in which you were unable to check. We will not know until later whether that has had any consequences. We had a lot of questions and in the meantime you have answered a lot of them. However, there are still a few left. I would also like to speak in committee to think about the prices in department stores, where meat is sold at dumped prices, so that the farmer does not even get his production costs back. How does that work? I see the three ministers sitting there and I urge them to take measures to ensure that farmers receive a proper wage. The government can intervene. After all, the fight for the lowest price leads to the terrible fraud cases that we get here every time. Mr Diricks, I am urged not to fish the top man. But who are we to fish, so that something changes? In August, when we had to return from vacation that was necessary, because it was a serious matter, I told you that you are not doing well. Well, I repeat that today. Your employees had to make a PowerPoint presentation that should convince us that your organization's controls are okay, but who still believes that? That pisses me off. I'm not the only one here who has doubts about that, am I? In eight months we have dealt with two food crises. What does that do to the image of our agriculture? You can now pump hundreds of thousands of euros into campaigns for agriculture. You've destroyed a lot of things with the last two crises. It will take a lot of money to fix that. However, you will remain seated. You remind me of Comical Ali. I mean that. You can look like this, not indignant, but still a little laughing. However, it is no longer funny. I don't want to be here again in a few months. Minister Ducarme, I must thank you. We're not going to attack you. We welcome your attitude today. It goes in the right direction: you want better controls, so do we, and you want the flow of information to politics better, so do we. We were elected by the people. If we have to wait 18 months to know that rotten meat has been found in a holding that accounts for one third of the Belgian meat supply, then we find it very, very, very serious and many with us. Look at the ministers now. We are not going to attack them, but you, Mr Diricks, are putting them in a very difficult position: the Minister of Agriculture sees how agriculture is destroyed by image damage; the Minister of Health sees how we stand in the shop and does not know whether or not the meat is safe, whether we should bake minced meat first or whether we should eat a raw meat sandwich; and Minister Peeters, who must protect the consumer. I still have some unanswered questions. Why didn't the alarm system go off in September 2016, Mr Diricks, so that you would inform the people and the relevant ministers? Was the Kosovo dossier also followed up on which other countries were supplied by Verbist and where those products ended up? Who controls the functioning of veterinarians in slaughterhouses? Are there any reports of that? Are there any evaluations of that? You said, Minister, that you wanted to answer the question of checking the operation of the BFSA. We welcome that, but how much time do you take for this? After all, if we have to wait two years for a review, then the legislature is over and we can start all over again. Mr Minister, would you like to go through the Court of Auditors' file and set it up in committee so that we can see if we can follow the recommendations of the Court of Auditors for the better functioning of the food agency? We must not always invent the warm water ourselves. The hot water might already be in there. We know that the price war has a disastrous effect on farmers and that it also brings enormous environmental pressure. Minister Ducarme, are you prepared to work together with the farmers and the committee on a system whereby farmers earn at least their production price back in food production? My next question is for the top man of the BFSA. Do you think you communicate well? You say that you acted quickly and that there was never any danger to food safety. In De Standaard last Saturday you give us the tip to bake the meatloaf well. Do you think that's good communication? Do you think that control by the food agency will work well if you discover a year and eight months after the facts that 133 of the 200 pallets are not in order? Don't you think it's a very serious crime that you haven't informed the public about this before? Mr President, I think I have remained within the speaking time allocated. My final remark is also addressed to the top man of the food agency. I don't fish anyone, but I want things to change. As a top man, I think you should show some deontology for your boîte, for which you are responsible. Do you think it is appropriate to brag here with a PowerPoint presentation, which explains how well you do work, as you sometimes also work on Saturdays? In a period of eight months, two crises will come to light. How do you respond to that? Do you really think the BFSA is working well? I do not want to stir up the fipronil crisis, I want to focus on the current Kosovo crisis and I ask you if you think you have worked well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u13	Mr. Ducrame, you hit hard! You have used words that are largely responsible. You said, "We are confronted with mafia practices of a food group." Knowing you, I have no doubt that you have weighed the words well and that you know all the political and legal consequences. To speak of mafia practices is to say clearly – because it is the very foundation of the mafia – that there is corruption. I do not know if you are in the secret of the investigation, I do not know if you have received more precise information but, if there is corruption, we will have to tell us much more. Pronouncing mafia practices without saying the precise content of such practices could either create suspicions that might not be justified, or, rightly, create questions that merit detailed answers. In any event, and I would like to join other speakers in that, we have had an exercise of pure formalism on the part of the head at the highest level of the AFSCA. This is a totally unacceptable flight of responsibility. It was a theoretical presentation. The first question I will ask and the first request I will make – I hope to be supported by the whole committee – is that we can receive all the reports and documents relating to the checks carried out by the AFSCA both for the Bastogne site of the Verbist group and for the whole group. I hope that we will be able to verify in detail, for several years now, since doubt has arisen, the reality of controls. Mr Minister, as you said, it is not enough to check the frequency and, if necessary, the regularity over time; we must ensure that the inspection measures are deepened, that the checks carried out are actually carried out. It is necessary to check whether the same agents are still going to the group, for example, and whether there are any usual relationships that would have been created. Minister, since you're talking about mafia methods, I'm trying to figure out the reality of what you're saying. I therefore believe that it is at the outset of the detailed analysis of the reports that we will be able to better understand what has been done. It must be said that it is still a state – with all due respect for Kosovo – that may not be as armed legally and administratively as ours, which has had to reveal the scandal some 1,500 kilometres away. One might wonder whether, prior to this revelation, the AFSCA had not had any clues or should have had any clues. That is the heart of the question. How far does the AFSCA perform its work properly if it is 1,500 kilometres from here that a person has been able to detect what the AFSCA controls never could or should have detected? In this, we will have to go back in the chain of time, long before the revelation of 2016. Whatever the responsibilities of justice – I do not know whether the judicial authorities have been diligent or not and perhaps they will have to be heard? – I would like to know how many times AFSCA has asked the judicial authorities what their intentions were. For example, has AFSCA ensured to the investigating magistrate or prosecutor the possibility of conducting its work independently of the instructions to be given by the judicial authorities, as there is what is under the authority of the administrative police and what is under the responsibility of the criminal investigation? Whenever there is a criminal investigation, it is not, however, that the administrative police are suspended indefinitely, and it is not, however, that no findings are made. Autonomous powers given to AFSCA could have been exercised independently of instructions from the prosecutor's office or the investigating magistrate. If there was a fear of interfering with the ongoing criminal proceedings, I would like to know whether you have had a dialogue. If so, I also wish we had the coins produced. If questions have been put to the judicial authorities, what have been the answers of these magistrates? For example, would the magistrates have formally prohibited you from conducting investigations independently on the basis of your own police powers? I would like to make sure that you have at least put the question of principle to the judicial authorities in good time and that we know exactly what their answer was. Either you did not ask the question and you are at fault, or you asked it and you had an answer that gave you the opportunity to continue under certain conditions and you would also be at fault. Or, prove to us that the judicial authorities would have formally prohibited you from pursuing any own investigative work. We don't know at this time. We would also like to know, and this is a debate which is broader than the control of the AFSCA alone, how all the operators who can carry out control over the meat production and marketing chain are coordinated in these matters in general. It is true that there are many operators and administrations that can intervene. It's not just AFSCA. There are, of course, other administrations. There are certifying bodies, there are regional bodies for animal welfare and farmers. It is felt that, in the end, there are a lot of administrative and legal tools, but there is little consultation or organization to ensure that controls are in place and that everyone not only fully assumes his or her responsibilities under the law, but also ensures coordination with other relevant actors and authorities, while often this coordination is lacking. I would also say, and it has been denounced, that, of course, the principle of self-control is the proper way in which the AFSCA works in relation to certain sectors, but what is terribly lacking is control over the AFSCA itself. In short, the AFSCA also makes its own self-control without any real political or superior responsibility being exercised over the AFSCA, or at least not enough. I do not believe that the debate can be reduced to the question of who is the appropriate minister. Of course, we could discuss it. One might know if there may not even be a need for joint supervision, but the real problem is that today there is no procedure organised on this agency in a sufficiently rigorous manner. We have a P Committee or an R Committee that verifies, in the organization of the security services, whether we are actually carrying out the control operations that must weigh on essential actors in our rule of law, namely the police or intelligence services. I believe it is important that services such as AFSCA, and others, which have considerable administrative police missions, should be held more regularly accountable to Parliament because, in the end, it is the lack of transparency and the lack of follow-up in the control of transparency that reveal the responsibilities that characterize all the crises we are experiencing in terms of food security. I will therefore put forward proposals to set up a specific committee within our parliamentary assembly to weigh, in terms of control, on your agency. In any case, minister, you have said a lot, but probably at this time, not enough. As I said, talking about "mafia practices" has a heavy impact. This is a statement that suggests that it is an organized system with a share of corruption. Because that's the Mafia: it's corruption. For all those who want to be interested in what characterizes the mafia, it is corruption. I therefore hope that your work of requiring transparency with your administration will give us the real dimension of the shortcomings found in the AFSCA, and that our committee will be able to continue its work of evaluating the information you will provide us with. It is not only through questions and answers in committee that we can carry out this work. It is mainly through an analysis of the documents that will be produced, the documents and the evidence that will eventually allow us to confirm the seriousness of your remarks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u14	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like many of my colleagues, I am not only angry but also astonished! Stunned by the attitude of the senior officer of the AFSCA, who comes to present us with an imprecise PowerPoint and tells us: "Look, everything is fine!" Minister, is the person sitting next to you on the same planet as consumers? Is it on the same planet as the breeders and farmers who are going to be the first to be affected by this new scandal? The presentation that took place today is a general debate; there have been no details. And I want some details! My colleagues have also made remarks and asked for additional documents. But what exactly is the details of the type of request that took place? The type of control? When you learn that 70% of the lots in the freezers are not compliant, admit that there is a real need to ask about the work of the AFSCA and what actually happens to the safety of the food chain. To return more precisely to this Veviba scandal, beyond the presentations that were made, when did the AFSCA make the link with Veviba, given the statement coming from Kosovo? Instantly? Did we have to do any research? How did this contact take place? Furthermore, in the past, when has this entity been subject to AFSCA controls? I would like a complete and precise picture. On what dates? How? With who? Is there a rotation of the controllers? Admit that when 70% of lots are found to be non-compliant, there is room to wonder! In this issue of Veviba, the fact is that the company would eventually have been warned of the controls? I ask the question clearly: has anyone in the AFSCA warned Veviba? Could the AFSCA tell us about the privacy chain that prevails within it about ongoing investigations and upcoming controls? How's things going? Does AFSCA have an internal police force to monitor what is happening? My question is about the "controller's controller." We have referred here to the existence of a P Committee at the level of Parliament. Is there any control at the administrative, ministerial or other level of what is actually being achieved? Is there an internal police force to prevent leaks? I would also like to know what were, and at what point, the very precise observations made in the Veviba company? Can you provide us with this report? How many controls have taken place in recent years? Minister, there is a lot of evidence in society about malfeasance and fraud. Did the PSAB also question staff, gather testimony? If so, what kind? What action has it taken in response to these testimonies? I would have liked to have very specific answers to these questions. Minister, since the fipronil scandal that brought us here a few months ago, has the AFSCA defined a modus operandi to cooperate with the justice system when an investigation or judicial information is under way? If so, which one? In other words, we have come together here to make clarifications, requests regarding the fipronil file. What are the conclusions of our previous work on this issue? What more have we collected in the six months that separate us from this previous case? Have you given instructions to the PSAB to implement these procedures? I would like to return for a moment to a document which has been provided to us and which has been referred to here. This is the report of the Court of Auditors. It tells us explicitly, in 2017, that the system of self-control is a system of risk analysis put in place by operators that works with difficulty, that it is not the best formula. I refer here to two paragraphs in the Court of Auditors' document. The Court of Auditors is no one! It is still a parliamentary body that controls the administrations. I am not quoting them, but what has the AFSCA done with regard to these two observations by the Court of Auditors? Minister, what input have you or your predecessor given on this subject? I come to the next question that the consumer is asking himself. From the moment the case has gone into the hands of justice, we have the impression that everything stops, that nothing happens anymore. What about, at that time, the continuation of controls, activity and the need for transparency towards the consumer? Mr. Minister or Mr. Deputy Head of AFSCA, do you confirm that AFSCA-approved controllers were present every day in the Veviba company? If so, did they alert AFSCA? In what way? What did they do? Have they submitted reports? Can we consult them? What has been the follow-up to these documents? Admittedly, the question can be asked, when you know that 70% of the lots were non-compliant! Minister, when meat comes from abroad, is it also controlled? Is AFSCA controlling this production? It is well known that frozen meat is often exported but, finally, it is not known whether it has been placed on the Belgian market. Who can tell us the opposite? I am waiting for an answer on this. I therefore hope that you will be able to answer all these questions. Minister, on November 14, 2017, several of my colleagues talked about this, and I was asking you in this room about the need for an audit with parliamentary scrutiny. Today, Minister, I always ask for such an audit with parliamentary oversight of the operation of this audit to go to the bottom of things, to create a committee to accompany parliamentarians with regard to this audit. Minister, I repeat that I am referring here to an inquiry on 14 November. On 23 November, in plenary, the majority refused this audit, which sought clarification, procedures and inquiries about an administration that now appears to be a State in the State. I say it and I maintain it: whereas I had asked for it on 14 November, on 23 November the majority refused this audit. Now, you agree, minister, but let us go further and have an audit carried out with the support of Parliament! This is a necessary step. We cannot meet again for a third time to discuss the same type of problem. That, Mr President, is what I wanted to say in the time allotted to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u15	Minister, I am dying to hang with you the discussions we have already had on how to review and rethink the functioning of the AFSCA, the risk assessment and the organisation of controls. In my view, these must be aimed at the structures that present the greatest risk. These are the longest sectors, the most important ones and those which exert downward pressure on prices. It is known that this has an impact on quality. I will not do so because other colleagues have already done so. However, I agree with what has already been said. It is important to have a real debate here in Parliament, on the model of the functioning of the AFSCA in terms of food security, in relation to the organisation of food production, processing and distribution chains. I would also like to make the link with the audit of the Court of Auditors in February 2017. It wasn't a few months ago! What has been done about it? In this audit, the important element was the introduction of a system of self-control, and the fact that this system was made mandatory by European requirements. But the report also says that, normally, all players in the chain who have a self-control system, as they should, can or must have it validated. When they have it validated, they are exempt from a number of controls. The frequency of checks may decrease up to one check per semester. We can then settle for two checks a year! The audit of the Court of Auditors states that this system of self-control and self-checking is not monitored, and therefore operators are not monitored for much too long periods, on the basis of the belief that they are effectively self-checking. Mr Diricks, Minister, I would like to know what happened to this remark and this recommendation of the Court of Auditors, according to which mandatory monitoring and inspection periods should be set, regardless of the system chosen, whether self-checking or not, validated or not. What is the situation on the ground, and what about Veviba? I guess Veviba has a self-control system. I guess he had it validated. And I guess because of that, he had fewer controls. What is the monitoring, the control that has been put in place? Mr Diricks, if I ask you this question, it is also because, in your answer, you have constantly referred to a decree which stipulated that in such a situation, according to such a risk analysis, controls are limited or organised in such a way; as if it were a way for you to clear yourself, that if you did not do more checks, it was because the AFSCA model, the royal decree which defined the number of controls according to the characteristics of the company, allowed you not to do a lot of checks. This would, of course, reinforce our vision and analysis of the need to change the operating model of the AFSCA. This also demonstrates that there was no initiative on the part of the AFSCA on the basis of proven facts. Whatever the self-control system of a company, if there is a complaint and an AFSCA controller goes to Kosovo and forwards a file to the court on his return, there was something. From the moment there was something, you had to act towards this company and already intervene or take sanctions at that time. Really, I don't understand. I join colleagues in misunderstanding and anger at what happened, and anger at the answers and information you gave us here. My speech is not going to be longer so as not to repeat what others have said. I'm taking over my co-chair cap. Mr Minister, you told us that you would probably have the report on Thursday. I think it would be interesting if we could see each other on Friday, for example, with this report, so that we can continue our exchanges and examine the situation. No one has to win to wait and drag things around. Beyond the audit that you want to request, and that you are going to request, urgent interventions must be made. An audit takes time and requires collective and interactive work. Here, you don't have time, you have to act right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u16	I will also try to be brief because a lot has been said and a lot of relevant questions have been asked. I would like to join the analysis made by my colleague Daniel Senesael and his questions. I'm not going to repeat them. I would like to return to a first point, which is the question of audit. I also had some bitterness, like my colleague from Lamotte, when about six months ago this debate took place here. Finally, the majority had closed the door to this necessary analysis. We were told, "Circulate, there's nothing left to see!" Unfortunately, there was still a lot to see and we didn't. Today, given the circumstances, it is a bit forced and forced to be announced. Minister, can you tell us more? Who? When? How? How long do you see this work? What would be the method used? By whom will it be realized? I also insist, like my colleague Nollet, that the audit is not an end in itself. Auditing is a working tool, it is a step - I hope - for reconstruction, for another way of working. My second point concerns the crisis of consumer confidence in products and the impact on the agricultural sector, as well as the trajectory of processed meat. So it is more to the Minister of Agriculture that I am addressing here. We know that the meat sector has already experienced a lot of difficulties. Producers are in no way criminalized in the present problem, but I fear that they will be the collateral victims. What the sector is asking for is to put an end to a certain opacity in slaughterhouses in general. When an animal enters a slaughterhouse, the producer has no control over its product. In particular, producers complain about the issue of weight. We're pulling pounds for a variety of reasons. It is said to be a common and general practice. Finally, these kilos are found in other products and by-products, without any control. There is, therefore, already a health problem. On the other hand, what has not been weighed is not paid. So it's also a theft for the producer. What does the sector require? It calls for transparency and traceability of products in the food chain, through genuine controls. It will be necessary to undertake a fundamental work to try to find a noble and virtuous industry and thus to regain confidence in the products that are now shaken. Your speech, Minister, seemed more firm and determined to me than a few months ago, as some have pointed out. You expressed your willingness to clean up bad practices and said that there would be a before and a after. I really want to join your speech. However, you will obviously be judged on acts, and not just on words. It is therefore important that you work with Parliament and the sector to put in place this virtuous industry that gives confidence in the work of our producers. I was also planning to ask a few questions to the Minister for Employment, who came and spoke to us a little general before leaving. Veviba employs a lot of workers. We're talking about bankruptcy. It is also suspected of social dumping and exploitation. I do not know whether the ministers who are still present can answer that question. Otherwise, I will question Minister Peeters later on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u17	Madam Chair, Mr. Chair, I thank the Minister and the Minister for their interventions. I take from everyone's speeches the term "fear", which seems to me to be the most appropriate in this kind of situation. We are witnessing an extremely serious crisis; we are all aware of that. However, we must try to put the emotion aside. Anger is a feeling. We should also talk about indignation and, I am sure, unscrupulous and totally unacceptable practices. I would like to begin by thanking the ministers, who spoke quickly and transparently to inform Parliament. This allows us and will still allow us to participate in an in-depth debate on these events and, above all, on what needs to be done to prevent them from happening again. I would also like to recall a fundamental aspect, which may have been less discussed, except for Minister De Block. Indeed, the latter has been relatively reassuring in terms of public health. Ultimately, this is the priority: what about the health of our population? If I believe what has been said, a risk assessment group has been set up. His initial conclusions seem reassuring, although we know that there is a need to remain extremely vigilant. I was pleased to hear the Minister of Economy worry about the protection of workers and consumers. These two areas of responsibility are important and arise as a result of the public health issue. Mr Ducarme intervened by also pointing out that the injury to small producers should be assessed. And finally – we talked about it – it is essential to conduct an external audit. An external audit will allow completely independent individuals to analyze what has happened and, possibly, to make recommendations to prevent this from happening. This external audit, of course, is very important. And once we have defined the responsibilities of each other, the time will come for sanctions, which will have to be proportional to the responsibilities. I would like to return for a moment to the problem of controls. During your presentation, Mr Diricks, you asked the following question: Should the frequency of inspections be increased or reduced? This is of course an extremely important issue. Only now can it be an additional problem. Maybe we should've landed it a lot faster. But I would like to ask myself about the quality of the controls. Some ask who controls who; how exactly this happens. What I would like to check is the depth of control. It is a problem for me to hear today that pallets have still been stored since 2001 without anyone else's attention. This is still surprising! I guess we'll be able to say, at some point, why and how it happens that these pallets are still there. And I have an extremely practical question to ask: when the checks are carried out, are they on the whole of the goods and storage, or only on sampling? This could perhaps explain the fact that, in some cases, part of this sampling is always set aside so that it is not controlled. It is an open question that I ask and I hope we can answer it. Far be it from me to say that there has been or could have been collusion between a controller, the stock company and others. That's not my point. What I would like to be sure of is that the people who carry out these checks are irreproachable. Just as police control, police control, should not be introduced at the time? Without extending my intervention, I would also like to return to the period between October 2016 and February 2018. A report was requested from the AFSCA. As the Chair said, let us hope that we can discuss it as soon as possible. And what did justice do during this period? I may not be using the right semantics, but I find it hard to understand why we haven't received more information from the judge or the prosecution. What could have happened so that we would not be informed, so that you, minister, would not be informed? However, I think that would have enabled us to take a position and communicate as well. There's something that happened, something that I don't explain to myself. Reference was made to the fipronil crisis. I participated in all the debates and I would still like to recall, without wishing to exonerate anyone – as long as someone is accused – that on that occasion we all agreed that the AFSCA had done its job. We even thanked her for that because, as a reminder, we were the first in Europe to see the problem, to analyse it and to deal with it. In conclusion, of course, we demand full clarity and transparency on what has happened. And I am waiting to know what measures are going to be put in place to ensure that this situation is no longer represented. I stress once again the sanctions that will have to be taken once the responsibilities have been established. Minister, we are waiting for a plan to restructure the AFSCA to be presented if necessary. We will, of course, leave you alone as a judge in this regard. Madam President, Mr President, I shall remain there at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u18	Presidents and ministers, Mr Diricks, about six months after the fipronil crisis, we are again dealing with a fraud in our food industry. I think that we all, both opposition and majority, have the same feeling. Disgrace, anger and incomprehension. How is it possible that one fraud who acts in purely profit-making pursuit can once again give the image and reputation of the whole meat sector a firm dent? That is reprehensible, it is very bad for the meat sector and for consumers. Our agricultural sector is getting another huge blow, a blow that comes very hard to our cattle farmers, who are doing their best and are working day in and day out for quality and honest meat products, on which we in Belgium can be so proud. People who do well and mean well will get the bill presented by those fraudsters again. This has to stop. The things that happened at Veviba can't be done. Tasting with labels can't, malleable with meat can't, mixing meat for animal feed in meat for human consumption can't. Companies engaged in such practices are rotten apples. We gotta get them out. These mafia practices, as Minister Ducarme calls them, raise a lot of questions for consumers. When I heard the news, I wondered, like all consumers, whether I would have eaten bad meat because I always buy it at a certain supermarket and whether my health was in danger. I am pleased that we have received reassuring information here from Minister De Block on our health. It's okay. We must not be afraid anymore and can eat meat with peace of mind. However, it also raises many questions with our trading partners. Belgian meat is still a very important export product that is highly regarded. The fact that one of our major exporters has just committed fraud tastes very harsh. It also raises many questions for our farmers who have the best interests and who are committed to producing quality meat. I therefore call on the ministers to take account of these farmers and listen to their desires and concerns. Last but not least, this fraud case also raises a lot of questions for us, politicians. It is unacceptable that the first complaint was made in 2016 from Kosovo, and that it took one and a half years for recognition to be withdrawn. It is also hard to understand that label fraud is found in Kosovo, or all places, but not here in Belgium. How can that be explained? It's been a year and a half. It was possible in Kosovo, but it was not possible in Belgium. What's the difference in the controls? How can that be explained? To get an answer to those questions, it is very important to know all the facts. It is therefore very good that you immediately requested a report, Minister, just about that time frame, so that we know very well what happened when, before we draw any conclusions. I assume the BFSA does a lot of checks. We have also been given an overview of this in the fipronil crisis. I understand that not every check, even if there is a different result, everything is immediately explained and sent to the Minister, but can you explain once again very clearly when the BFSA transmits the information to the Minister, how many checks are currently under way and how many facts are being passed on at the moment? Mr Diricks, as a result of the fipronil crisis, we have had very long debates. I also criticized the BFSA and the way you communicated. A lot of time was lost between the adoption and the communication. In the case of the Veviba crisis, too, we can ask questions about communication. The BFSA withdrew the approval of the meat processing workshop and cold store on Tuesday 6 March. However, the BFSA did not send a press release until Thursday 8 March. Why did they wait two more days? For me, it seems that the BFSA responded to the decisions of the department stores, Delhaize and Colruyt, to take Veviba's products out of the shelves. Was that really the reason or did you have other reasons to wait two days before informing the consumer? There are two findings. Firstly, there is fraud with labels which make the meat look younger than it really is. One speaks of meat of 2001. I looked it up twice. So it's meat that's 17 years old. That's fraud. It's hallucinating that it's still there. How old is all the meat that's in there? How do people check how old meat is? Meat that's 17 years old, that's just hallucinating. A second observation is that meat intended for animal feed has also been processed in meat for human consumption. I can't believe this hasn't been discovered before. When I reason with my simply healthy sense of farming, I come to the following. When one knows that a certain number of kilograms of meat enter a holding, a slaughterhouse, one also knows how many percent of that meat is intended for human consumption and how many percent of it is intended for animal feed. Each company knows about how much raw material comes in, how much percent of the raw material goes to a product and how much percent goes to the waste. This is where waste is processed in a product. Those percentages must be about the same for every slaughterhouse, mustn't they? Has there never been a control of the waste stream, because it was far too small for such imports of raw materials? I would like to have a clarification on that. If I understood correctly, the waste is category 3. There were far too few kilograms in there. So there could have been a light on. When a certain number of kilograms of raw material arrive, there must be a certain number of kilograms of waste. That link was never established or never discovered. So I'd like to be clear about that. However, there are a lot of control bodies. We now only belong to the BFSA. The FPS Economy also conducts inspections. There is also the VAT inspection. There are also a number of inspections carried out by the regional authorities. There are no less than five inspection bodies that go to slaughterhouses, for example, to carry out inspections. Despite the fact that there are so many control bodies, things are still going wrong, a fraudster can still apply mafia practices and he can still slip through the loopholes. Each inspection body may indeed do its job and take up its duties, but something must go wrong in coordination, communication and composition, which can still lead to fraud of this kind. I would therefore like to have your views on this. Are there any gaps? Are there any things that aren't being checked? How can it be better? The big question that everyone has is how long these malpractices have been going on and how many kilograms of affected meat have been placed on the market. I hope that we will be able to answer these questions. Another aspect that has not been mentioned here, but which was raised by a former employee, is that far too little was cleaned. Rotten meat was sold and the barrels in which the meat was chopped were not washed out in between. I understand from the PowerPoint presentation of the BFSA that there are indeed four inspections per year, including a check on hygiene. Has the news that has emerged from an employee also been covered during your checks? Has hygiene also been effectively checked? If so, what were the findings? We all agree that fraud is unacceptable. This affects consumers, it affects our farmers, and it also affects the workers of the fraudulent business. We are pleased that this aspect has been addressed and that Minister Peeters has an eye for it. Recall actions also took place on 8 and 9 March. Do you know how many consumers have reduced meat in the context of these actions? The BFSA has also set up a special customer hotline, which I do appreciate. Can you explain how many calls have already been made? What were the main concerns of consumers who contacted this infoline? The next point I would like to mention is the traceability of our products. Of course, that is very important, but there seem to be a number of difficulties there as well. If a certain number of kilograms of raw material comes in, we have to know how much product and how much waste can be produced. Especially if fraud has been detected, it is very important to be able to trace quickly where the affected products are located. The affected meatloaf ended up as americain nature at a single butcher shop. Do you know how many kilos it's been these past few years, knowing how long this fraud has been going on? How many consumers were affected by this? The butcher's office was in the papers by name. If one is a customer, I can imagine that one is worried. I'd like to know the impact on the sale at that butcher shop. The tracing of the oxtail lasted longer. Why did it take longer to figure out where that bulltail had ended up and whether it had been contaminated or not? Another point is exports. The fraudulent company is an important exporter. You said the countries were already contacted by our liaison officers. I would have liked to know which countries were exported to? How many kilograms of meat and what kind of meat are we talking about? Can the BFSA also estimate the amount of possibly contaminated meat that landed on the Belgian market? I appreciate that both ministers and the BFSA are here today. We have followed the news in Parliament. Every day, other facts came to light. We also had to gather our information through the press. It is important that we have a forum here to ask all our questions, for which we are grateful. We all have a lot of questions and I hope that we will get a lot of answers, but I am looking forward to the report requested by Minister Ducarme to get much more details on the actions taken by the BFSA. This should also answer the question of why there is a gap of one and a half years between the first complaint from Kosovo and the withdrawal of recognition. We are waiting for this more informed and detailed information before drawing any conclusions. We are looking forward to the reforms announced by Minister Ducarme.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u19	Madam President, Mr. Ducrame, Mr. Diricks, it's actually quite simple: you're paid to prevent us from getting "fucks" on our plate. Today, however, we must see that this has been the case! We would have expected a presentation that would have allowed us to understand what was not, where the problem was. But, as was the case with fipronil – it is exactly the same sequence – we are given a justification to make us believe that nothing could be avoided and that it has always been so. That's what's crazy! We could have talked about a human error, but no: we are told how we proceed and that we cannot change anything! So you are asking Belgian consumers to accept that this is the way it is, that in some cases meat that is unfit for consumption is on their plate! Mr Diricks, we cannot accept that! Put yourself in the place of consumers! At least give us an explanation! Tell us you're going to do better! Stop just giving us a talk to tell us that we've always done this way and that we can't do more! Ladies and gentlemen, the problem we are concerned about is serious. Indeed, we are faced with a sector that is focused on capitalism, as has never been the case in our history: 30% of the market goes through a company. We never knew that! And that's where the problem lies, Mr. Diricks, in your approach. Two ideological problems have enormous practical consequences. The first is to believe in self-control. Mr Diricks, you completely underestimate the strength of the profit hunt! You underestimate what the pursuit of profit means to companies. The Verbist Group has a business figure of 200 million, 880 000 euros profit and the company internally investigates what it can do to make even more profit. How do you want companies that think only of making a profit, taking 30% of the market, to carry out an auto-check to see if they do respect the rules? That's the problem, Mr. Diricks. This is the complete failure of the approach to self-control. The second mistake, in my opinion – we'll go back to the figures just now – is to consider Verbist, a company that owns 30% of the market, as one company like another. I almost want to ask you the following question: why don't you focus 30% of the checks on Verbist? It goes without saying that a mistake in a small business, a small butcher shop has all the other consequences than an "error" in a company that controls 30% of the market! The power these big companies have is enormous! When the minister – who has been absent and who, I hope, will come back soon in order to be able to question him – talks about mafia, he obviously talks about corruption – Mr.Maingain is right – but he is also talking about intimidation. The mafia system is characterized by intimidation of state structures. Is that what the minister meant? Is this intimidation, by all means possible, of the supervisory bodies? Is that what the minister meant by "mafia" because that's what the mafia does? Ladies and gentlemen, I do believe that we have the right to have much more concrete information. I do not go back to all the details of many of my colleagues. Above all, it is important to know why, for a year and a half, the AFSCA could not do anything. Mr Diricks, you are telling us that an investigation is under way. No, Mr. Diricks, it is not possible that, because an investigation is under way, you, the AFSCA, do not have the right to continue the checks. That's not possible! I have a very concrete question to ask you right away. You told us that there were twelve AFSCA controls on the site for 2016. You actually confirm that the company remained in type 1. I assume that these are twelve controls on the whole site, namely butchery, cutting, etc. I am clearly asking you the question. Was there a time in the procedure when Verbist went into Type 2 or Type 3? I'm doing my little average calculations with the chart you gave us. With 12 controls, the AFSCA kept the company in type 1. This is crazy! You still had the right to increase the controls, unless you tell us that the instruction prohibits you from passing the company into type 2 or type 3. But, to my knowledge, it is not because an instruction is under way that you do not have the administrative right to move to a step above it. Why has the AFSCA, in view of the information from Kosovo and the fact that fraud has already occurred in 1997 – the company is not at its first test run – not increased the controls present? We have the right to have this explanation. A third element also seems important to me: the testimony. Again, it touches on an ideological aspect, Mr. Diricks. You tell us you didn't receive the workers' testimonies. Did you read them in the press? Did you feel fear in the eyes of these workers? Everyone in front of the press said, "I'll give you some information but you don't quote me, you hide my face." Colleagues, we are facing such a situation in Belgium in 2018! Workers do not dare to bring up information for fear of being punished. Economic democracy in companies in Belgium is beautiful! I am used to saying that human rights stop at the doors of companies, and that is the case here. The trade union organizations could have helped to trace the information. However, these trade union organizations were persona non grata in the company. This means that the collective structures that protect workers not only at the level of working conditions but also at the level of their ability to denounce what they saw were not in place. Mr Diricks, AFSCA should normally put in place structures that protect these workers, which allow them to obtain quality information because they are not only concerned with the profit of the company, contrary to the mastery and the boss that you receive at the AFSCA level. They are concerned about their working conditions but also about their families who consume what they produce under the conditions they know. I say this to all the state control structures and more particularly to the AFSCA: trust workers more, put in place structures that allow the information to go back before the facts and not only after! My fourth question is also important. You have made a lot of argument in your defence that the investigation of the case prevented you from taking further action. Mr. Diricks, how many files do you have on the table, instructions in progress where, at the AFSCA Steering Committee level, you decided not to continue the controls? That is a crucial question. I am not asking you to give me the details of these instructions; I am asking you if you are faced with any other cases where an instruction is under way and for which you decide to stop the controls or not to intensify them. I come to the penultimate point which concerns the statements of the boss, Mr Louis Verbist, who continues to want to produce his 30% market share. One might say that there was a consensus but something derailed. However, I read Mr Verbist's statement in the press: "Never have I turned what could not be transformed into hachis." I would like your firm opinion on this. Thus, according to this declaration of one of the main bosses of slaughter and slaughter in Belgium, an important sector, AFSCA ment. Could you respond to Mr. Louis Verbist's comments? I will conclude with one last important point: responsibilities. Mr Diricks, the AFSCA cannot continue to react after the events, by self-justifying all the mistakes that have been made. That is the biggest problem for us, Mr Diricks. We cannot continue to accept that, although controls are to be carried out in the production chain, it is always admitted afterwards and said that the Agency could not do anything about it. Mr Diricks, you cannot expect us, Members of Parliament and the public to remain passive when you say you can't do anything about it. You have to come up with an explanation. I don't think you have that explanation because you're just going along with the focus logic of the sector. You go along with all those big players who, as the Minister said, use mafia practices. You must listen carefully to what Minister Ducarme has said. Minister Ducarme said they were mafia practices. Mafia practices, that is not only corruption but also pressure on the state apparatus. That's what the mob does. Mr Diricks, can I ask you whether the pressure that the Minister mentioned, which is pressured by mafia practices, is still pressing on the BFSA today? I think so, Mr Diricks, precisely because there are so many mistakes in this dossier but you do not come up with a good explanation. This can only be done because you are ideologically and practically going along with that sector that concentrates so much power and that includes 30% of the market. Minister, I hope that we will have answers, not just an audit, but that you will see the whole, the logic. I will end by talking about subsidies. At the level of both the Walloon Region and the federal government, the logic of subsidies, which is to help concentrate the sector in a few actors, is at the root of what is happening today. Subsidy is granted to the major players and the controls which concern them are relatively less. A small bakery is controlled by the AFSCA without any problems. But against a big player like Verbist, there's no problem keeping quiet for a year and a half. This kind of practice, this 'two-weight, two-step', in an area as important as food, can no longer continue. Thank you for listening to me, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u20	Colleagues, the findings at Veviba last week are downright disgusting. They are not only disgusting to the consumer, who wants safe meat on his plate, but also to farmers, who do their best every day to ensure safe meat. I am pleased that Minister Ducarme has spoken a very strong language about this and that you feel the same way. Companies like Veviba who take a walk with everything that is legal must be punished. If meat from 2001 is still found in the refrigerators, that is quite repulsive. Ministers De Block and Ducarme have given a complete chronology of the facts here. I would like to thank them for that. After all, we had to hear everything through the press last week and then it is not always clear how the fork is on the right track. Two things are very important today. On the one hand, the consumer must be assured that he has safe meat on his plate. He doesn't have to worry about eating anything wrong today. Mrs De Block has made it very clear that there is no danger to public health today. So let's certainly not scare people and worry them. The same applies to the farmer. He must be protected and be able to deliver his meat. People have to want to eat meat from the same farmer. What is more important is that such an incident cannot happen again. The fipronil crisis and the current crisis have shown that it is time to take a closer look at the BFSA and make sure that absolutely no more can happen. I have a number of questions, on the one hand, about the current situation and, on the other hand, about the future. Why did it take so long after the notification was received from Kosovo before effective fraud was detected? Why did it take so long to answer? It is argued that there was a judicial procedure. I have absolute respect for that, the court must do its job. On the other hand, Veviba or the group Verbist is not unknown in the circuit. Irregularities have already been detected several times in that slaughterhouse. Couldn't we have acted faster? Shouldn't alarms have gone off faster when it turned out that it was the butcher again, and shouldn't they be checked faster? Shouldn't we at least let the distributors know that the meat might have to be withdrawn from the market? How will you protect the farmers who deliver their meat to Veviba? They don't currently have a delivery channel. How do you do that? I have heard that there is contact with Minister Borsus about the operation of the slaughterhouses and the further procedure there. Will there also be contact with the other Länder? Veviba is of course located in Bastogne, but belongs to the group Verbist, which also has slaughterhouses in Izegem and Roeselare, in Flanders. Can we assure you that there are no problems there? Was there any contact with the Flemish ministers to ensure that everything will go well there? The future is at least as important. Minister Ducarme, I'd like to hear you say that there is one before and one after Veviba for you. I used to hear this in the dioxin crisis: there was a time before and a time after the dioxin crisis. In fact, I had hoped that something more had already happened on food safety than we can experience today. It has progressed very well, I do not want to minimize that, but the facts are very regrettable. You are talking about reforms based on an audit to be organised. In this audit, I think it is very important to check not only the functioning of the BFSA, but also the communication between the BFSA and the other inspection services, including the Economic Inspectorate, but also the Justice Department. Why does the Justice Department keep us waiting so long? Isn't that all that's gonna happen? Is everything quiet? Finally, Flanders has a well-functioning animal welfare system. Minister Weyts closed a Verbist slaughterhouse in Izegem last September on animal welfare grounds. That happened very quickly. We can only take an example of this and perhaps we should think about making the regions play an extra role in this. I have heard a great deal of criticism from the opposition, but I would like to make a suggestion. Criticism is always easy, but solutions seek a little less. I read in the newspaper last week that Carrefour is working on blockchain to label the meat. Perhaps we should also impose blockchain labelling in Belgium, so that fraud is not possible. Let me give you this in the context of possible solutions to allow labelling to take place without fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u21	Dear Presidents and Ministers, together with many colleagues, I have been deguised by Veviba's practices. I think the company gave a giant uppercut to the meat sector. As a result, consumer confidence immediately tumbles down. There will be a lot of energy, time, money and, above all, a lot of resilience in the sector and in farmers in order to repair this image damage. Fortunately, there has been no danger to public health, as the Minister of Health said today. That's very important. That was the case with the fipronil crisis and now, fortunately, that is the case again. We can all breathe relievedly. Yet the image damage is enormous. Yet we are once again having a food crisis. Colleagues, the next thing I need to know is... In his presentation, Mr Diricks of the BFSA explained how the inspection frequency is carried out according to the Royal Decree. For example, he explained that there were four inspections per year in the slaughterhouses. It is possible to opt for the maintenance of those inspections, for a reduction of them if the car control systems indicate that good work is being done, or for increasing them in the event of a high level of non-conformity. For me, that is where the problem lies, because I am somewhat remodelled that the BFSA did not choose to increase the controls after what Kosovo has indicated to our country. I think that was serious and it was too much non-conformity. It seems to me that a different assessment could have been made in that respect. An error of assessment, that is my personal opinion, and I think that the head of the service bears the responsibility for that. I am therefore very pleased that Minister Ducarme has stressed today that there will be an audit that will have to show what has gone wrong. That seems important to me, from the beginning to the end. After the evaluation and the audit, we must also ensure that we start new processes, if necessary, in order to ensure that this cannot happen again. After all, I would like to stress once again that we are relieved that public health has not been compromised, but who dares to eat a steak today, who dares to choose steak tartar at a restaurant today? That is unacceptable. It is unacceptable that this cannot be done with the eyes closed and that such practices are possible in our country. Despite a control system, despite the BFSA, we are establishing such practices today. However, we must reduce it to the right proportions, and we must learn from this. Unfortunately, the situation is dramatic for consumer confidence. The big victims today are the farmers but also the bona fide farms that provide quality on our board every day. No matter how we turn it around or turn it around and no matter how relative it may sound today, I want to stress it again today, we produce in our country, in the most efficient way, the most safe food in the world, including for the environment. Those are not my words, but those of Professor Keulemans of the KULeuven, who last year was the book What about our food? wrote. Nevertheless, the confidence of many citizens in the quality of our food has been lost. That's a problem. That confidence must be restored, Ministers. That is what we are doing, first and foremost by allowing the court to do its job and to try and punish the accused, but that is what the government must do, by carrying out proper evaluations and adjusting policies and, finally, by encouraging the whole chain to reflect on the causes of this kind of scandal and to take action so that they never happen again. At the other end of the chain is the consumer, who wants safe, quality and animal-friendly farmed meat. It has already been said that it is being baked today, at prices that make it impossible for farmers to keep their heads above water. Briding campaigns send exactly the opposite signal to the consumer. I would like to take you to France, where a recent initiative was taken to stop allowing discounts on meat. Buying campaigns as one, one free must be banned there. I believe that it is important for the chain talks to decide whether this should be regulated by law in our country or whether agreements should be made on this matter. Braderen can only do so if the large-scale distribution creates this opportunity for consumers by putting products under price pressure so much that they can get the best out of them. Then one cannot demand quality and safe food on his plate. In other words, we must not make the wrong process as a result of this food crisis. The farmer's is already being made permanently. Minister Ducarme, I am pleased that you and the agricultural organizations have made themselves bourgeois. We support you in that. We also support the proposal to organise a conference to restore consumer confidence in the quality of our food. The meeting of the chain talks will take place tomorrow, where you will take this proposal. We therefore ask you, together with your colleague from Consumer Affairs, to urge the chain consultation to organise this consultation in an intensive manner, at a time-to-time non-suspecto. We would also like to ask you to pay particular attention to the confidence of the foreign markets in our food. I also underlined this during the summer following the fipronil crisis. Belgium, and Flanders in particular, is very export-oriented when it comes to food. Our international business cards are food par excellence. It's not meat, but it is. Just as we are looking for foreign markets, especially for our fruit and pork, in order to cope with the consequences of the Russia boycott, we must not allow crises such as these with the rogue Veviba to reduce the export opportunities of our companies. Minister, we would particularly like to draw attention to good communication from the BFSA. We also stressed this during the summer in the fipronil crisis. I believe that during this Veviba crisis communication was not sufficiently consistent and unambiguous. This must become an important point of attention in your audit, not only in the interest of the Belgian consumer, but also in the interest of the reputation of our food and our companies vis-à-vis abroad. It should be borne in mind that the food industry in this country is an important employer and also a permanent grower. Like I said, I agree with an audit. The audit and evaluation of existing control systems are an important task. Theoretically, we have many and good control services, but they are, as is often the case in this country, spread across different levels of competence. The result is that, in a crisis, the demand for coordination, cooperation and clarity is quickly raised. Agricultural organisations in our country have already argued for one final manager, at any level, federal or regional; that is what the organisations are left in the middle. It seems to me appropriate to think actively about the creation of an umbrella body, where we have an overview of all the controls over the whole chain and where better coordination agreements can be reached. Muriel Gerkens, Chair: I will give the floor to the Ministers and the representative of AFSCA.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u22	Madam President, I will stay until the end of this sitting, should there be any further questions. I have an answer for Mrs. Dedry. We work with a monitoring system based on level laboratories. Those level laboratories record continuously, year in, year out. The data is processed by the WIV. Approximately 60% of accredited laboratories participate on a voluntary basis in a weekly registration of some 40 possible infectious cases. That's all mapped out by the WIV. Some are food-related, but so are the flu and so on. It happens on a systematic basis and not just post hoc, as you asked. If different findings are present, one can also look more proactively for the cause, even by region. That is why we asked for this separately for the province of Luxembourg because the meat was sold on the spot there. One can see where that develops, throughout the country or in a province. Based on this system, no increases in the number of food-related infections were observed. In identifying irregular cases, such as last week in Veviba, we are also trying to identify the general risk as best we can and to assess the impact on public health. One will also look back where fluctuations are visible, even below the surface. That is a good system that we can build on. However, if nothing abnormal happens, the proactive system will not enter into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to point out from the outset with great respect, but also with the strictest firmness that the AFSCA, represented by Mr Diricks, can produce a number of factual answers to questions that have been asked. But I urge him not to speak out in a sense that would argue that everything has been done properly. To be clear, if I ask for a report and if I want an audit, it is obviously because, as I said earlier, I feel that the contract has not been fully completed. Of course, with respect to the content of the expression on this issue, I ask the PSAB to show the greatest reservation. Mr Nollet, Mrs Dedry, Mr de Lamotte, we must avoid amalgams. The fipronil crisis was well managed by AFSCA. Some of you, including Mr. Thiéry, have indicated that. I would point out that the work of the AFSCA in the context of the fipronil crisis allowed us to react optimally, which is not the case for this case. But it is pointless to try to combine the two files: they are very different and they have been managed in a very different way. I don't want to get into a semantic debate. I will not venture to discuss with Mr. Maingain or Mr. Hedebouw the mafia nature of the techniques found in the Veviba leader, who is trying to export damaged meat to Kosovo. I did not find a better qualifier, because mafia techniques do not necessarily involve corruption or intimidation, to describe what I consider to have been the behaviour and choices of this company. I'm sticking to it: they're mafia techniques. For the rest, a judicial investigation is under way. Questions were raised, testimonies were reported. We are a civil party. I will take care, if necessary, to request further instruction on this part of the file, that goes without saying. I think I made it clear. I heard Mr. Delizée and Mr. Nollet say, "An audit is good." But it is still a matter of objecting to the situation. Why? We must base our actions on tangible elements. That is why, on Wednesday, 7 March, I requested a report from the AFSCA on all the checks that were carried out at Veviba's party in 2001, with particular attention to the period 2016-2018. It is obvious that we need such elements to objectiveize the file. Ms Dierick, Mr Maingain and others asked questions about this report. It is understood, Mr President, Madam President, that I intend to communicate to your committees as soon as I have analysed it. I will still ask for time to consider the report. If I get it on Thursday at the end of the day, I'd rather not have to come to the House on Friday morning. I think it would still be useful to give myself the time, as well as the other members of the government concerned, to analyse this one. But I naturally commit to come back. I am at the disposal of Parliament. I will also ensure, Mr Maingain, that this report contains copies of the minutes, or at least all the information that is not covered by the secrecy of the judicial investigation. I am committed to the greatest transparency and to responding as widely as possible to requests for information from Parliament. As I said, and I repeat, this is a report, an audit to reform the AFSCA. Why? Mr Nollet, it is true that I am Minister of Agriculture and Food Security, like 22 out of 28 ministers in Europe. It makes sense that the Minister of Agriculture is also responsible for food security. In seven months, I have to deal with two serious health crises, Fipronil and this meat health crisis, as the responsible minister of AFSCA. It is obvious that if we need to reform the AFSCA, it is to further raise our level of food security requirements. The audit, which is already in preparation, will naturally cover the issue of the frequency of checks. It's obvious. This includes the process of control. The aim will be to work on how controls are carried out in a cross-cutting way. In order also to answer a question from Mrs Gerkens and Mrs Lambrecht, this must also concern self-control. I would also like to thank Mr Thiéry, Mrs Lijnen, Mrs Dierick and Mrs Hufkens for their willingness to carry out an external audit in order to have clear recommendations, on the one hand on the whole process in terms of controls but also on the way in which the dossier was followed, Mrs Hufkens, in particular on the Veviba part, but also on the relationship between the AFSCA and justice and on communication. It is obvious that what you are raising at this level must be covered in the context of the audit that we are going to be asking for. Nevertheless, I will of course leave it to the AFSCA to communicate to the committee all the information concerning contacts and meetings with the justice system since October 2016. You're right, Mr. Nollet. This is not an end in itself. That was never my point. Legitimate questions have been raised here by Mr Thiéry, for example, as to what some have described as a form of slowness in investigating the matter. Some noted it, denouncing an investigation that began in October 2016 and a search carried out only on 28 February. I understand that Parliament is asking questions about this aspect. However, when I say that I believe that the contract is not fully met, it is that, since we have information on the Kosovar file, let us call it that, we should have acted much more intensely and offensively with regard to Veviba Bastogne and the control of the fridges. That is, of course, the relationship to justice – as I said, the additional information will be given by Mr Diricks at that level – and so yes, to produce an external audit, to have a number of recommendations. Yes, Mrs. Lijnen, evaluate our tools in relation to food security. A requirement of reform: it is not a question of commissioning the subject. Of course, it is a matter of speeding up the matter. It is also a question of not improvising a reform of this magnitude. Because if we are to achieve the objective of raising our level of food security and raising our demands on food security, we must also ensure that we take measures that are sufficiently prepared and concerted. Concerted, indeed, that is the subject. Mr Senesael, it's no big deal. There are no "matamoresque" statements. It is obvious that this is a matter of responsibility. It would be irresponsible not to involve all the players in the meat industry and we had meetings with the Agrofront on 8 March. And I naturally propose to the Regions; of course, Mrs Hufkens, contacts are made with the Flemish Region, the Brussels Region, the Walloon Region! The focus has probably been put more on the Walloon side since we are talking about Veviba Bastogne, but we know that Verbiest is a national company. It is therefore, I think, for having taken note of all your comments, Mr Delizée, Mrs Lambrecht, Mr de Lamotte, Mr Thiéry, ladies Hufkens, Dierick, Lijnen; it is clear that we must also, in the context of these new practices, demand that all the actors involved be involved in this matter. I spoke about the Regions and the "chain" consultation, so also the large distribution, the representatives of the sector (Comeos) and the Federation of Butchers. Even if, during the "chain" consultation, representatives of consumer associations do not sit, I want us to include them in such an approach to restore confidence. If we want to achieve this, beyond the audit and the resulting reforms, it will naturally be – with both the sector and the other levels of power – to determine new measures and practices. It's a call from the sector. When you read what the Boerenbond, the Walloon Federation of Agriculture and ABS (Algemeen Boerensyndicat) write, you see that these actors want to get to work to develop new practices. However, I would like to draw the attention of some Members to one element. I hear, Mr. Nollet and Mr. Delizée, that you are talking about the opacity of the meat industry. However, I would like to stress the need, in terms of communication, not to reduce the whole meat sector in Veviba. Whether it is the sector, the herdsmen or the food industry, several groups do their work very well and do it honestly, by offering quality products. Of course, it is important to ensure that we do not commit any amalgam which would associate an entire sector with the mafia techniques of Veviba, I repeat. As far as lots are concerned, this is not a business to business system. Mr Senesael, I leave this answer to the AFSCA. One point was raised by Mrs Lijnen and it requires my full attention. Of course, care has been taken not to be in default in terms of our international obligations. As I have said in relation to the observation made on a European scale, by making contacts with third countries, by activating liaison officers between agencies, by being available, as I am for the Dutch or Luxembourgers with regard to frozen products, this was not to be taken in default of our international obligations. We meet our obligations in this regard. I took a lot of time – a week – to unlock records for beef exports to China and Vietnam. This has resulted in a positive outcome. But after what we have just experienced here, when you look at the international press, you can only note that we are going to waste a lot of time and risk losing a number of international markets. Mrs Lijnen, it is also in this sense that we are a civil party in the face of the damage that this case brings to the image of our country. If we have to produce concrete policies on the reform of the AFSCA, if we have to produce measures with all the players, it is to restore the confidence of the Belgian consumer – who needs it very much – but also at international level. This trust is obviously altered in the light of what we have just experienced. These are some of the more political elements of the response. I would now like to give the floor to Herman Diricks, who will reply on the other aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u24	You will understand that I need a moment to get my back straight. I understand from the Minister's words that there will be an audit and that any reforms will be linked to it. The Agency is, of course, in favour of this. It will allow us to explain some of the things we have done better. I'll see what questions I can answer now. The question has been raised that another dossier will be submitted. I suspect that if all the questions we do not answer immediately are included in that file, will this be good for you too? Of course, there is the case of Veviba, on which the Minister has said that there will be another investigation in this area. Many other things have been said about the Agency. If you will allow me, Madam President, I will make a number of additional elements, and occasional corrections. Several people have put the word "maffic" in their mouths. Good. I would therefore ask those people to bear in mind that mafia practices are usually fought with very special teams and that it might then be worth considering whether it was indeed the Agency that... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u25	Can I finish my sentence?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u26	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u27	Mr President, may I speak? The intention is not to start a polemic. The intention is to indicate that we do need a special approach to such practices, regardless of the conclusions that will undoubtedly be drawn in the audit and in the follow-up to the audit. It is important, as you yourself have pointed out, that it concerns the way in which the Agency has dealt with matters. We can launch a whole debate on this. That is a debate for the next time, when we can present the full report. I wasn't spared in the discussion. I am prepared to discuss all the points raised. What I would certainly deny is the accusation that we have joined forces with Veviba in order to protect the large-scale industry. With all due respect, that is a very wrong and serious accusation, which I strongly deny. If one considers that mistakes have been made, we will certainly find them in the audit. However, it is important to inform the committee that, independently of the structures, all the staff of the Agency are working at all times to protect food safety. It has been suggested here that the PowerPoint presentation was made by my employees. However, I make them myself. I've been trying to prepare this whole thing. I have to admit that the discussion went a different direction than I expected. However, despite everything that has been said about the structure, I would like to emphasise the fact that I personally, and not only I, can testify that all the Agency staff have always worked and will continue to work for the protection of food safety and consumer protection. I'm counting on that. The audit can take whatever form one wants. I'm counting on the audit to get there as soon as possible. After all, it will also give our organisation and our staff the opportunity to give their side of the story and their vision. It is suggested about leaked controls. As a rule, all checks are unannounced, as I said in my presentation. That has always been the case and will continue to be the case in the future. I can provide you with documents from the advisory committee, in which we are asked to announce checks, a question that we have systematically rejected, because our checks must be carried out unannounced. The checks are therefore unannounced. A lot of questions were asked about our methodology. I suspect that point will be included in the audit. We will certainly be able to explain this. I hope that, in this context, we can also explain our relationship with the judicial authorities and explain that we were not waiting passively but trying to cooperate actively on the ground. Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to use the file to answer the other questions. Otherwise, I think I have a long way to go with the presentation of arguments in this area. Jean-Marc Delizée, President: Colleagues, the practice in this kind of debate is that the last word comes back to Parliament, but the last word will not be said today. We will probably have other opportunities to meet again at a forthcoming meeting of our two committees, on the basis of the report, as the Minister has indicated. I would like to give you the floor for a reply, but I would ask you to limit your time. If there is no organizational question, we will go back to the speakers, in the order in which they intervened. Can I ask everyone to come up with a one-to-two-minute conclusion?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u28	Mr Diricks, I don't know if you realize that you're going to confront your minister. The one who used the term "mafia" here is him. We hung on to him. I don't know if you realize the situation you put it in, you put yourself and the institution you represent. I'd like you to think about it calmly tonight, but the point you made now, in reply to that word, is largely inappropriate. I am not going to go back to the rest, but I am going to speak to Minister Ducrame, whom I thank for his frankness when the situation is not easy. We know this, especially that it follows what we had to live and that it had to deal with with the fipronil crisis. You have asked the Agency, following my initial question, to communicate differently, and I sincerely thank you for that. This is a necessary message although I am not sure that it has already been heard. I hope that from this evening or tomorrow, the communication will accept that the system did not work properly and that the citizens were not protected as they deserved to be. Mr. Ducrame, thank you for indicating the direction that the Agency should follow in its forthcoming communication. I will not dwell on this subject, but I would remind you that this is an important moment in your answer. I won't argue about fipronil, I'll only remember what you said here. However, in the same vein and within the framework of the same responsibility as you can assume, you have said that the report will be submitted to you no later than Thursday. I believe, Mr Minister, that the citizens will not accept that transparency and the debate on this report will be postponed until Monday. The seriousness of the situation requires that Parliament be able to continue its work on Friday. You know, like me, since you have been in my place at other times, how important it is that Parliament can act as a resonant to this discontent so that we have the real, democratically organised debates on the follow-up to be given. Today, many questions have remained unanswered, including those addressed to Mr Diricks who are already referring to much later. Mr Ducrame, I ask you, with your eyes in your eyes, to accept that the debate will take place on Friday. I'm not asking you to do it at the first hour, 8:00 a.m. or 9:00 a.m. I can understand, but I am basing myself on what has been done by the same majority, the same government, in the context of the CGRA report. There is obviously no parallel on the substance but on the agenda. The report was available in the morning and, at 1.30 p.m. or 2.00 p.m., the committee met. Here, you're telling me that it will be available on Thursday. Mr Ducrame, I would like to address you and ask you for a commitment on this aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u29	Mr. Nollet, I can hear you. As you say, I have been a group leader and I understand your approach. But this is not a small report that we will have. The report will contain information that goes back to controls that have been carried out since 2001, as formulated. Personally, I think that before we have the exchanges, if we are to have a constructive debate, both for you in Parliament and for the executive, we must take the time to analyse this report. It is not a question of keeping information in relation to Parliament. If there is to be a debate, if I would like to assess it more constructively at the beginning of next week, given the amount of information that this report represents, I would like to make a commitment to release this report as early as Friday so that parliamentarians will have the weekend to analyse this voluminous report, given the period it concerns. But I think it would be more constructive if we could have a minimum of time to analyse this report. It is only for this reason that I propose that you organize a meeting on Monday at the first hour, if you wish. Jean-Marc Delizée, President: Mr.Minister, I suggest that you let the members who wish to reply. We will discuss organizational issues at the end of the meeting. I would also ask you to conclude, Mr Nollet, because you have already exceeded the time allotted to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u30	Mr Ducrame, you have not answered a question. When were you first informed by AFSCA of the existence of a Veviba problem? I don't know if it's late February 2018 or if you were warned earlier about a potential problem in Kosovo in which this company was involved. Could you answer that question?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u31	The information that was provided to my office refers to the search on 28 February. Jean-Marc Delizée, President: Mr Nollet, I now invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u32	As far as the rest is concerned, we shall come back to it at a later stage. But as far as oversight is concerned, for example, it is not the Minister of Energy who has oversight over security, but the Minister of the Interior. This should inspire you, but we will come back to the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u33	Madam Chair, Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, you spoke about the slow pace of justice and leadership of the AFSCA. You said that the latter must no longer speak out to say that everything was well done. I ask you the question in a different way. Do you still trust the boss of AFSCA, Mr. Diricks? This is a question that can be asked after listening carefully. Finally, Minister, a really important question for us has remained unanswered today. I understand that very well. It will be for the next meeting that is announced. It would be interesting to come to our respective committees to list the measures you have taken and put in place since the fipronil crisis. You say that both are not comparable. I listen to you with great wisdom, but our committee should be able to benefit from the internal audit of your firm to see the progress that has been made since we saw each other last August.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u34	Mrs. De Block, thank you for the clarification you have given. I'll study that a little bit better. Thank you, Mr Ducarme, for your clear language and your moving insight. I do not entirely agree with you and will not start a polemic, but I would like to point out that we saw two new crises in seven months' time. You cannot deny that there are many similarities to the fipronil crisis, even if it was the confused communication, a timeline with holes, twice a questionable auto-control and twice a situation regarding unsafe food with questions about health at stake. In 1999 we set up the BFSA in response to the dioxin crisis I was part of the cradle. This was never allowed to happen again and yet it happened again. That is why I am asking what credibility we still have with regard to export partners, farmers and consumers. I look forward to your bold measures in the interests of health and the quality of the food on our plate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u35	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Minister Ducarme for his comprehensive reply and his constructive attitude. It is a pity that the Minister does not hear me, because my words are positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u36	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u37	I was thanking you for your constructive attitude, Minister. Food safety has no colour and we are very happy to see it with you. We find in you a supporter to work better, to prevent crises in the future and to tackle any new crises very hard, each time harder than the previous ones. I have one question for you: do you have the confidence in your top man next to you, even after all the glittering in the Veviba crisis? Mr Diricks, you still don't seem convinced that it has to be otherwise. You are still there as I saw you on the weekend, before your PowerPoint and now after your PowerPoint. Let me give you the three points again, which means that we have enormous problems with you as a top man at the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain. You do not see that your control should be much bolder, much shorter on the ball. You do not see that your communication is not good and consumers are confused about what they are or are not allowed to eat. You also do not see that you should not keep the information to yourself and your employees, but that you should pass it on to your minister in good time so that he can pass it on to us. We represent the people in the streets, the citizens. We need to ask questions and we want to be informed much more quickly. However, if you do not report it to your Minister, then the Minister cannot tell us either. Minister Ducarme, I would like very briefly to call for the debate on fair prices for farmers to be held in future committee meetings. It is dumping that is partly at the root of fraudulent practices, which you rightly referred to as mafia practices. I would also like to support you in your request to lift things over the weekend. That's not a problem. If that means that we can have a better debate, then we are happy to be prepared to do so. I'd like to ask you not to take too much time for the audit. If we allow months to pass, a reform will become something for the next team after June 2019, which may not yet be in the process of doing so. This is not good for the efficient functioning of the Food Safety Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u38	Mr President, many areas of shadow persist. Many questions about key aspects of chronology and the reality of the work done by the FASD have not been answered. We will therefore be waiting for the supplementary report that the Minister has announced. But the least we can say is that there is, in the sight and knowledge of all, a breach of trust between the minister and his administration. When a minister almost calls, in front of parliamentarians and public opinion, the head of his administration to keep quiet, it is that there is more than one malaise: a loss of confidence. We now await the political consequences. Responsibilities will have to be assumed at some point. We'll have to assign them. It will not be appropriate to drown in a luxury presentation of new PowerPoint. You, the minister, will have to tell us where the responsibilities lie, especially after what you have said. Otherwise, it will only be a masquerade, and the breach of trust will be even wider.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u39	Minister, today's answers are incomplete. I wanted to hear some things from the ministers present, and I did not hear them. There is an urgent need to inform Parliament, and to act transparently on all the data mentioned. I would like to draw your attention to the many specific issues that have been raised; I would like to return to them with you. I look forward to this report. There's an urgent need to examine it. We'll have to find out who's responsible for what. We can't finish a discussion like this without pulling a line, or knowing where we're going. I see that this dossier, in addition to that of fipronil, is beginning to do a lot. I am obviously the auditor as you announced. I asked for this one in the discussion on fipronil, but the majority did not want it. I really insist that a parliamentary review or accompaniment of this audit take place. You must go back to this issue in order to move forward on this issue in a positive way, with all the components of Parliament. The issue is too important for the food security of the consumer, as well as for the farmers and farmers who are the first to be interested in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u40	Mr President, we have heard part of the explanation, but without the report we cannot move forward. Not only do we need the report, but we also need time to analyse it in depth, in a relevant and professional way. Moreover, and this is a more personal concern, on Friday we still have a Criminal Transaction Committee and I would regret not being able to be there; I would indeed prefer that we hold our meeting next Monday.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u41	Thank you for your reassuring words, Madam Secretary. So we can eat meat again. Spread the message, I'd say. This can only improve consumer confidence. Thank you for your vigorous action, Minister. I have asked a lot of questions, along with my colleagues. Many of them have not been answered, but I understand that a report has been requested. Of course, I also agree with the audit requested, but I hope that the report will give a lot of clarity and answers to our questions. We await that before drawing any further conclusions. Thank you for the organisation of this joint committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u42	Mr. President, I won't be long for my reply. We remain a little on our hunger for the few answers that have been given. It would have been important to know why there had been no increase in the number of controls. We would have liked the AFSCA representative to respond to that. He explained the three different types of control intensity possible. Obviously, type 1 has been maintained. Why not switch to 2 or 3 following information from Kosovo? We hope that the audit will provide some answers to this. I think these answers could have already been given today. Secondly, I think it is important. Mr. Diricks, you're a mafia. But it was your appropriate minister who used that expression. We are trying to understand what he meant with that. A mafia that does not corruption, a mafia that does not use violence against control structures. We will continue to try to understand what the minister meant by "a company that has mafia behaviour in the sector". I am not yet reassured, but I hope that the rest of our work will provide us with further information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u43	I would also like to briefly thank Minister Ducarme for taking my audit recommendations with him and also looking at communication with the other inspection services. I would also like to thank Minister De Block for reassuring citizens as quickly and as effectively as possible, so that we can all eat meat again with peace of mind. I would also like to take this opportunity to sensitise the consumer: know where your meat comes from, think about it, and try not to consume too much meat. Maybe that's how we can fight mass production.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u44	I would like to endorse the words of thanks for the very correct answers given by the ministers. I am very pleased that the Minister has stressed that it is safe to eat meat. I do not think we can repeat this enough today. This is a very important signal to the consumer. Minister Ducarme, I look forward to the audit. I hope that this audit can be completed in the short term. Muriel Gerkens, Chair: Minister, Minister Diricks, thank you for responding to our invitation. When we meet again, the report will have been prepared by the AFSCA. A copy of the PVs of the controls that are not considered confidential by the court will be attached. Could the AFSCA also provide us with an update on the implementation of the recommendations contained in the February 2017 audit on the validation of self-control? Has this been put in place or not? If so, how is this organized? In this way, we will have the information that can answer the questions asked and that remains unanswered. This report will therefore be necessary. We want to work as quickly as possible to discuss the answers and relay them to the public. Some of you would like us to meet Friday. Others would prefer to have time to review the report and see each other again on Monday. We can quite imagine meeting Monday morning. With regard to the report of this meeting, I should like to inform you that we have the services of the full report. As of tomorrow, we will normally have access to it. I would point out that it will not yet be translated, as is the case with our usual committee work in questions and answers. In this way, we will have all the elements for our next meeting. Given that we will be meeting on the basis of the AFSCA report, can we only invite Minister Ducrame and the Agency and exempt the other ministers from this meeting? There are questions that we would have liked to ask and that have been somewhat sketched out for Minister Peeters about a series of elements. Do we see it at the same time or are we trying to schedule a meeting with Minister Peeters on Tuesday to deepen these issues? For me, we can do everything at the same time on Monday. Jean-Marc Delizée, president: In any case, the next meeting will still be a joint meeting of the two committees, regardless of whether Mr Peeters will be available. Specific questions can be based on the economic, employment and other aspects. Muriel Gerkens, Chair: Would the two ministers be welcomed at the same time? Does that suit you? It would be Monday morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u45	Madam President, I think things are clear. The report is coming on Thursday. The minister broadcasts it on Thursday evenings in parliament. We have the whole evening, all night and the next morning, and we can meet on Friday afternoon. We did much worse in the CGRA audit. We had an hour to read it. I think it is neither healthy nor good to give the impression that you want to save time when your speech has been clear so far. I therefore ask you to be able to meet on Friday afternoon on this report so that you do not give this unpleasant impression, as everything goes well, of wanting to save time and possibly to strengthen other links. A report will be submitted. There is a need for a debate. Let's organize it Friday. It's perfectly possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-12-54-commissie-ic839x.u46	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to try to restore a little serenity to this because we are still here in a situation where, in the end, transparency is present. Ministers cannot be much clearer. Here, what you're saying, Mr. Nollet, is that we could suggest that in the end, we don't quite agree. Mr Nollet, if you want to send a message to the public yourself by saying that there is obviously no will to make all the clarity on the problem and that the proof is that we must wait three more days; that is your point, Mr Nollet, with regard to the population and the media, but it is not at all the truth or the reality. We want transparency on everything. As I said, I would prefer Monday because Friday is the criminal transaction committee, in which I am involved, and I wish to be present in this debate. I do not see what three days could do as a difference, except that we will be able to analyse the case in more depth. Muriel Gerkens, President: Mr Delizée and I are committed to organising the meeting with the two ministers concerned as soon as possible. We will see when the report is available. In any case, we are not in numbers to vote with a vote on a meeting date; we must do so by consensus. Mr Delizée and I will arrange with the Minister to ensure that we meet as soon as possible, depending on the receipt of the report.
