ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u1	Mr President, Minister, the Constitutional Court ended in 2014 with the favorable pension scheme for the police, which means that many staff have to work a lot longer. As compensation, the federal government introduced an end-of-life scheme allowing members of the operational framework who are at least 58 years of age to request an adapted job, but they also created a temporary system of non-activity for operators who benefited from a preferential early retirement age of 54, 56 or 58 years before the court ruling. They can stop working for four years before their early retirement. However, the NAVAP scheme gives the police areas much more costs. That's why the federal government decided at the time to compensate for these additional costs. From 2016 to 2019, the zones may apply for grants. For 2016 it was 29 million euros and 35.6 million euros for 2017. Now the scheme for 2018 and 2019 has also been published in the Belgian Official Journal, which accounts for 38 million and 36.8 million respectively. In several police areas in the country I hear from worried police chiefs, financial managers and mayors that the money, planned for 2017, is insufficient to finance all applications for that year. The amounts for 2018 and 2019 would also be insufficient. Hence my questions, Minister. Is the amount planned for 2017 sufficient to finance all applications? If not, will the individual police zones bear the additional costs not compensated by the federal government? Are the amounts for 2018 and 2019 sufficient? If not, will the police zones pay for the extra costs? What will the scheme for the NAVAP Statute be after 2019? The reality is that this needs to be regulated in the 2020 budget, and that is for a future government. For the police zones and municipal authorities starting a new team in 2019, this is important information in the format of their multi-annual planning and transfers to the police. Can you give us any more information on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u2	Mr President, Mr Vandenput, although I was not obliged to do so, I nevertheless provided for a subsidy for the local police areas related to the NAVAP for the years 2016 to 2019. The amounts for those years have been known and are fixed, you gave them. That was a gesture of mine in relation to the local areas. In 2017, the envelope was just a little too small, although it was really close. The Royal Decree then provides that the applications for the last trimester are to be paid in proportion to the margin laid down. It is important to know that the NAVAP scheme stipulates that staff either enter NAVAP or continue to work. The police zones receive a subsidy of 100% of the staff member's wager for those who continue to work. As the majority of staff eligible for NAVAP continue to work, the police areas receive subsidies for staff who are still working, and this increases their capacity. So that's what we're subsidising. It is known that the subsidy will also be insufficient in 2018 and 2019. There too, therefore, a proportional set-off will take place. Again, many subsidised people continue to work, which increases capacity and they are subsidised at 100%. The next government will indeed have to make decisions for the period from 2020. Hopefully, budgetary clarity will soon come about. It is already the case that the Royal Decree provides that the NAVAP scheme will continue to apply if there is no harmonised early retirement scheme for the entire public sector by then. So it runs until 2019. If there is a regulation in relation to heavy-duty professions and the like, then you will automatically step in from 2019. If not, the next government can decide to continue the NAVAP scheme. So that's a decision of the next government. This government is, of course, bound to resolve the problem of the heavy professions, so that there is clarity from 1 January 2020, as planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your clear explanation. Therefore, we need to communicate to the zones that may not have enough budget in 2018 and 2019 and that will then be distributed proportionally. You are beating the nail, it is actually the discussion about the heavy professions that continue to drag us into this situation. I know that this is at the level of social dialogue. We will have to wait for the new government to decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u4	Mr. Chair, Minister, I'm coming back to you in this new year to take stock of the many deficiencies in the federal police, identified by the unions, that you haven't resolved in 2017. Trade unions refer to inadequate and dangerous infrastructure in buildings in Brussels, but also to a lack of equipment for police officers and other staff. I had already asked you about this at the end of last year. In addition, the situation in the CARs, which houses the Federal Judicial Police, is of great concern to the unions. I've asked you a number of times about this. However, the Royal Street shooting centre is still not up to standards and it has been going on since 2014! The CAR building also contains a guard service, but now that the length of police custody has been extended, there are housing and food problems. Worse still, this building doesn't even have a fire alarm. So I let you imagine the dramatic consequences that this could have. Finally, as I've been telling you for many months, the police are sorely understaffed. In particular, 20 people would be missing for the road police in Brussels. As a result, police officers cannot carry out their duties properly. It is therefore the security of citizens that is likely to be affected. This non-exhaustive list weighs on the work of police officers and their well-being; I think that in 2018, it is more than time to find solutions. Minister, will the CAR building soon be up to standards? Installing a fire alarm seems to be the least I can do. Is that in your plans? When will the shooting centre on Rue Royale finally be able to open? Will people in police custody soon be able to benefit from better reception conditions? Finally, my question is still the same, how do you intend to solve the problem of the shortage of police personnel, especially for the road police? How many police officers will be hired this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know what information you rely on to say that the RAC building does not have a fire alarm or does not meet many standards. As you can imagine, if this were not the case, the building could under no circumstances have been put into service. In view of his occupation, the construction of a building in 2014 without providing for the fire detection and alarm system would have raised the challenge. As a result, the building is effectively covered by detection equipment and a fire alarm. These shall be subject to regular inspection by the approved bodies. A fire drill was also organised in December 2017 for this building. I come to your second question. In 2014, neither the Régie des Bâtiments nor the Federal Police had an agreement from the SIAMU in Brussels on the installation of a soft flooring in the shooting centre, due to the standards imposed by the fire services. Indeed, no flexible flooring met these standards at the time of construction. There was therefore no alternative to the development which had been carried out. With this arrangement, the shooting stand met the standards set. However, users of the stand have expressed reservations about the use of such concrete flooring for legitimate safety reasons, following the delivery of the infrastructure. The Federal Police subsequently conducted a number of consultations with the SIAMU in Brussels to identify an option for upgrading the shooting range, with a view to meeting the legitimate demands of users to have a flexible floor covering to protect them in the event of a shot to the ground that could generate a ricochet, while ensuring sufficient fire prevention measures. Following the agreement between the parties as to the nature of the flooring to be provided, and the change in standards required, the federal police notified these elements to the owner of the leased building, with a view to ensuring agreement on the modification to be made to the shooting stand. Work for the installation of the soft flooring is expected to be commissioned in the first quarter of 2018 and to be completed by the end of March. A further visit with the Brussels-based SIAMU will then be required to validate the installation and a visit by the prevention committee with a view to commissioning the shooting stand. Let me turn to your third question. The CAR cell complex fully meets legal standards, including the Royal Decree of 14 September 2007 on minimum standards for the establishment and use of places of detention used by the police. I am not aware of any reports that detainees would not be accommodated under acceptable conditions. Indeed, mattresses, blankets and meals are available to inmates. If necessary, it is also possible to let the inmate take a shower. The issue of the impact of extending the right to police custody to 48 hours is the subject of a technical assessment within the Federal Police. However, it seems to me appropriate to clarify that in terms of infrastructure, reference may be made to Article 11 of the same Royal Decree, which provides that a police cell must meet criteria: "When it is intended for detentions exceeding 24 hours, the police cell must have a floor area of at least 7 square metres and be equipped with a table and a seat anchored to the ground." These elements are new and result from the adjustment of the Constitution. In response to your fourth question, on the basis of the requests, I have, for the past two years, greatly increased the recruitment targets, as you know: 1,600 aspirants inspectors in 2016, 1,400 in 2017 and I also propose 1,400 recruitments for 2018. Along with the reinforcement of the core framework, I am working to meet the needs of the integrated police by strengthening the cadre of officers and the middle cadre. In 2017, 73 aspiring commissioners began the training. These are internal commitments. In 2018, 147 aspiring commissioners began their training; 107 of them were hired through external recruitment and 40 were promoted internally. In addition, 30 places have been planned for senior inspectors with special specializations, such as Ecofin, ICT, Islamologist, Laborantin, technical and scientific specialists. In 2017, there were still 65 seats, including 20 level B CALOG staff members that will be open in 2018. Finally, 300 principal inspectors aspirants began training as principal inspector, also through internal promotion. For 2018, 380 places have been planned in the Senior Inspector training. With regard to the Federal Highway Police, the current shortage of staff is close to 22 per cent compared to the theoretical capacity of 1,181 full-time equivalents. The Federal Road Police Service which deals with motorways and related roads in the Brussels-Capital Region is the WPR Brabant. They are also in charge of the management of the two provinces of Brabant, the Walloon Brabant and the Flemish Brabant. This last service is short of 53 people and has a total of 147 people out of a theoretical total of 200 people. In order to partially fill the deficit of the Federal Highway Police, 66 places have been opened in the context of mobility 2017/5 and 17 more places will be opened in the context of this year's first mobility adaptation. The opening of these 83 jobs is as follows: 14 for WPR Antwerp, 19 for WPR Brabant (Brussels included), 18 for WPR Hainaut, 6 for WPR Luxembourg, 4 for WPR Liège, 2 for WPR Limburg, 14 for East Flanders, 2 for West Flanders, 2 for Namur and 2 for Command - DAH. These figures are theoretical, however, given that it is not guaranteed that a candidate will run for each of the positions within the Federal Highway Police. The posts are open, recruitment is under way, but we need to see what it will do in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u6	Minister, thank you for these complete answers. At the shooting stand, can we hope for an opening by the end of this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u7	Even before. Before the end of March, we must have carried out all this work, and then again it will be the turn of the SIAMU, as well as of the prevention committee. I don't think it should take months and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u8	Hopefully, I'll cross my fingers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u9	I think everyone clearly understands the urgency of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u10	Of course, that's why I'm asking you about it almost every three or four months. As far as the extension of police custody is concerned, you say that a technical evaluation has already started or will begin, is that correct? Is there a timing available? Could we have a copy of this report? Has a deadline been set? I will ask a written question and can only welcome the 66 vacant posts that are open for the road police.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u11	Mr Vice Prime Minister, last year there was a report from the P Committee asking questions about the handling of the police with the mentally ill. In the view of the P Committee, there would be no basis for the police today to act legally correctly against the mentally ill. The P Committee recommended two points. Firstly, it advocated the drafting of an up-to-date letter. Secondly, a legislative initiative was advocated to create a shared professional secrecy between the police and the psychiatric institutions when the latter need the police to control an incident within their walls, and when they are struggling with the question of what information they can actually pass on to the police. You said last year that this is a task for the Permanent Committee of Local Police (VCLP). In the meantime, is there an analysis of that permanent committee? If so, what are the conclusions? What concrete steps will be taken to address this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u12	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, the Permanent Committee of Local Police has given me her recommendations. They actually come up with the same findings as the P Committee. So it's a confirmation of the report. Many regulatory texts are already in place, but they are not always very clear. Additional texts are needed for coordination and clarification, with detailed manuals, instructions, roadmaps, detailed intervention sheets and information on what actors can expect from each other in different circumstances. A general level of professional secrecy seems necessary for the VCLP to enable good consultation, mutual reporting, monitoring and so on. My office is now examining what initiatives need to be taken and with which partners. We will effectively come up with those texts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for the state of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u14	Minister, I have asked a number of questions on the subject. In 2016, your fellow Minister Geens in the Justice Committee agreed to reduce the systematic assistance from the police to the bailiff as part of the key tasks for the police. This requires a thorough exchange of information between police and bailiffs. In this way, a proper assessment of the need for assistance can be made. In order to structure and possibly to computerize the exchange of information, it was agreed that the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs and the Home Office would work out a protocol together. You yourself stated in 2016 that the protocol would normally be ready by the end of 2016 and that there was still a need for legislative changes, for example for the possibility of carrying out a seizure at the house without the mandatory presence of the police. In the meantime, we'll be a while later. Your most recent response, last year, was that the following weeks of the January 2017 meeting would be organised in order to reach the protocol agreement. Afterwards, work would be done on the legislative amendment. What progress has been made with the protocol and any legislative changes that may or may be necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u15	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, since 18 January 2017, a number of meetings with the different stakeholders have indeed taken place in this context. Last week's most recent meeting with the bailiffs dates back to 25 January 2018. At that meeting, the working party's proposal on a new protocol agreement was submitted to the bailiffs. The ball is now in the bailiff's camp. They must now discuss the proposal internally and, I hope, adopt it. As long as the text is not final, you will understand that I cannot yet explain it in substance. In order to enable the new Protocol to work, it is necessary to amend Article 1504 of the Code of Justice. That is the legislative work, which would result from the file, should the protocol be accepted by the bailiffs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. There remains a very different approach today. In some regions, the police always have to accompany the bailiff. This is not the case in other regions. In terms of efficiency, we can certainly take further steps in favour of the police. I therefore hope that the process in question, which has been going on for some time, can be successfully completed in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u17	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gabriels converted 23088 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 23107 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u18	Mr President, Minister, on 18 January the federal road police were attacked at night by a number of transmigrants during a check-up in Groot-Bijgaarden. During this checkup, policemen were suddenly attacked by some 41 transmigrants, in which 6 policemen were wounded and 16 were arrested. The story shows that some six transmigrants were caught in the act breaking into a truck for the purpose of travelling to Great Britain. These 6 people first fled to attack the police with a group of about 40 people. The modus operandi and the increasing aggression against our police services are worrying me greatly, all the more so because our services are increasingly powerless against the phenomenon of transmigration. My concern in this respect is twofold: on the one hand, guaranteeing the safety of our policemen, on the other hand, guaranteeing the means for public security. What if sooner or later something serious happens to a truck driver who finds illegal immigrants? What if the aggression degenerates into badly wounded or even dead in the police? When I submitted my question, I also asked what would happen if a dead person fell among the transmigrants, which is now the case. I therefore have the following questions for you. My concern goes out to the wounded policemen. What's their current condition? How are they taken care of? What aftercare is spent on them? The modus operandi shows a frightening trend, where it seems as if the police are being set up. Some transmigrants try to climb into a truck, get caught red-handed and then summon a crowd to attack the police. Could it be a diversion in which a number of other migrants can climb into another truck without being seen? Or do we want to scare the police to intervene? Do the police authorities notice an increasing trend in the aggression by transmigrants? Is it necessary or desirable to carry out targeted major actions to discourage work? I understand that in the meantime you have given an appropriate answer. What countries are the transmigrants arrested from? The actions of these transmigrants show that they are doing everything they can to cross the Channel. They're not innocent and unhelpful victims fleeing their lives. They do not shy away from violence to achieve their purpose. What will happen to those who were arrested now?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u19	Mr President, Minister, on the night of 18 January, law enforcement services in the Grand Bijgaarden motorway park were attacked by dozens of so-called transmigrants when a police patrol there caught a number of illegals trying to invade a truck. The police were attacked and had to resist the brutal violence of the illegals with the baton and even with warning shots. The next week, in Jabbeke, there was even a dead man on the E40, when a transmigrant fled from the police. These issues, and the figures you gave me earlier in reply to a written question, show that the number of incidents involving transmigrants has increased exponentially in recent years. Violence against the police also seems to be becoming more and more violent. Apparently, more and more are taking place in large groups and with organized gangs. The transmigrants seem to be able to drum up dozens of companions in a short time. I think that requires a tight organization. That is not surprising either, since the figures I have requested from your colleague, Mr Francken, show that the vast majority of the transmigrants arrested are simply released. From April to September 2016, 3 228 transmigrants were arrested in West Flanders, only 102, or 3.1 %, were detained by the Secretary of State for removal. In the end, only 58, or 1.8 % were effectively deported. The police can therefore pick up as many transmigrants as they like, if they are released again and again, the mopping with the crane remains open. The suction effect will of course not disappear. The sad thing is that the security of the police is always compromised. We are slowly but surely evolving into a life-threatening jungle on those highway parkings as the event in Groot-Bijgaarden demonstrates. In fact, it goes so far that the Belgian transport companies confess that they are now advising their drivers not to stop at the motorway parks, in order to prevent their drivers from being the victims of theft and violence by transmigrants. Mr President, first of all, in addition to the questions that have already been asked, I would have liked to have been given some more information on the events in Greater Bijgaarden and the consequences. Secondly, how many actions were organised around transmigrants in 2017? How many immigrants were interviewed by the police? In how many cases was that accompanied by violent resistance? How many policemen were injured? Thirdly, can you confirm with figures what these incidents show, in particular that the actions of the transmigrants are becoming increasingly violent? Fourthly, is there indeed an increasing number of large groups behind which organized gangs are involved? How many of these gangs have been rolled up in the meantime? Are they actively tracked down, for example near highway parking? My fifth question is now somewhat out of date, because you have already announced the surveillance of highway parkings. However, that is the fight against symptomism. It only moves the problem. Hence my most important and final question, have you already consulted with your colleague for Asylum and Migration to finally work on a firm expulsion of the intercepted transmigrants? Are you convinced that, in order to be effective, a closed centre for transmigrants is needed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u20	Minister, indeed, on the night of 18 January, a federal road police patrol was attacked by some 40 migrants during a control action on a highway area in Grand-Bigard. One officer even had to carry out a warning shot. Two police officers were slightly injured and 16 persons were arrested. Minister, the point of my question and those of my two predecessors is to take stock of this matter. What are the nationalities of those arrested? What follow-up has been given to these files? What about the health of injured agents today? It seems to me that a few weeks ago similar events had taken place in Antwerp. Do you think the situation has worsened in recent months? Have any other facts taken place recently? I would like to recall that my question was tabled before such new developments took place and had the unfortunate conclusion that is known, with the crossing of the motorway and the death of one of those migrants. Beyond the surveillance of a few car parks, an initiative that seems positive to me, we will not be able to keep all the car parks constantly in the direction of the sea. What measures do you recommend to solve the substance of the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u21	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their many questions, which I will put together in my reply because they partly overlap. My first answer concerns Mr Flahaux's first and second questions. This is also an answer to Mrs Pas's first question and to Mr Degroote's first question. On the night of 18 to 19 January 2018, 6 members of the Federal Road Police Brabant carried out a planned control action antitheft. This is an action aimed at the phenomenon of theft of goods from trucks parked in freeway parking. Staff patrolled in civilian and noticed 5 persons trying to open the loading door of a semi-trailer on the parking lot at the E40 in Groot-Bijgaarden. According to the federal police, the personnel have identified themselves as police officers, on which the five people would have fled. After further examination of the parking lot, police officers would have returned to the semi-trailer to check whether the 5 persons caused damage to the semi-trailer. It was at that time that some 15 people reportedly went to police officers, equipped with sticks, branches and crutches. These included the five individuals who had previously fled. Staff members are said to have once again identified themselves as police officers, which would have led the fifteen people to flee to the woods again to obtain the reinforcements of others who, obviously, stood there. The police officers were reportedly then confronted with some 40 individuals, all of whom were reportedly armed with sticks and branches. One of the police officers carried out a warning fire which would have produced the desired effect and led to the withdrawal of these persons into the woods. Thanks to the reinforcements of the Federal Reserve of the Federal Police and neighbouring local police areas, several individuals within a wide radius have been deprived of their liberty. Sixteen people would be involved. During clashes between police and suspects, two police officers were slightly injured by beatings. There was no need for on-site medical intervention. The affected police officers themselves made an appointment with their doctor. As a result of this incident, a police officer was declared incapacitated for three days. All are also followed by the stress team of the federal police. My answer to Mr Flahaux's second question and Mr Degroote's fourth question will follow. Of the 16 administratively detained persons, 5 were in possession of an order to leave the territory. For the others there were 5 detention orders and 6 orders to leave the territory. The stated nationalities of the 11 intercepted persons are: 1 Egyptian, 1 Ethiopian, 5 Sudanese, 1 Eritrean, 2 Syrians and 1 Moroccan. Mrs Pas, I come to your second question. In 2017, a total of 1,087 actions were organised by several police forces in the context of irregular migration and smuggling. These actions did not record the number of irregular aliens intercepted, nor did they record whether or not this was accompanied by violent resistance by foreigners. However, if these actions are linked to the administrative reports drawn up for the detection of irregular aliens, we can estimate the number of irregular aliens intercepted. For 2017, 1 813 intercepted irregular foreigners are linked to these actions. My answer to Mrs Pas's third and fourth questions, Mr Flahaux's third and fifth questions, is as follows. Since spring 2017, findings have increased significantly in the judicial district of Antwerp, with the regular interception of large groups of migrants in transit. Typical modus operandi of trafficking in human beings – well-organized criminal organisations, use of violence, dangerous processes, etc. – were also spotted in the parking lot of Grand-Bigard. In particular with regard to car parks along the roads, two human trafficking organisations were dismantled last year. They were rife in Grand-Bigard's parking lot. Two judgements have already been handed down and an investigation has been initiated. More than before, the district of Leuven is confronted with the phenomenon of trafficking in human beings. As a result, the Federal Judicial Police Prosecutor's Office is making every effort to fight against organizations active in the borough's car parks, including those of Heverlee and Rotselaar. A judgement had already been handed down and investigations were still under way. The large groups of transmigrants were already present in the past at the West Flemish highway parkings. Once again, there is a great movement. In addition, it is reported that people are now also arriving by public transport, trains and buses, from the Brussels region. Organised crime has already been identified on a number of occasions. Smugglers sometimes have a military background or come from police forces in their country of origin. They are very organized and perform counter-observations. Moreover, they are very violent, not only with regard to transit migrants, but also with regard to lorry drivers, citizens and policemen. They do not hesitate to use weapons such as knives, rods and sticks, and they want to remain out of the hands of the police at all costs, deliberately hitting police vehicles. Question has shown that the phenomenon of trafficking in human beings is increasingly manifesting over a large part of the country and that the fight against crime must now be combated by several public prosecutors who were barely confronted with trafficking in human beings. For more information, please refer to Mr Geens, the Minister of Justice. The phenomenon of trafficking in human beings is a transnational crime due to the nature of the crime and requires international cooperation at all levels. For your question as to what will happen to the arrested persons regarding the use of violence and their nationalities, I would also refer you to Minister Geens. I come to Mrs Pas' fifth question and Mr Flahaux's fourth question. On Monday, I asked the Commissioner-General that the directors-co-ordinators concerned organise integrated and multidisciplinary control actions on a daily and coordinated basis in the fight against irregular migration and trafficking in human beings. In the short term, private surveillance will also be provided in the motorway parks, where the problems are most acute. Mrs Pas, I agree with you that, should we only use parking surveillance, we would only fight the consequences, but not the cause. The Action Plan is divided into three parts. First of all, security. Surveillance is not static, in the sense that one will monitor where necessary. At the same time, we will be able to monitor five parkings, which means that we can use them flexibly. Secondly, thorough checks, not only in the parking areas but where it is necessary. Thirdly, co-ordinated cooperation to increase capacity at the root of evil, namely the gangs of smugglers. Mr Degroote, I can answer your second question as follows. We do not have any concrete data at our disposal to confirm or contradict whether this is a diversion. That will be part of the task force, but at the moment I do not have any information on it. Mrs Pas, on your last question, I can tell you that both the Secretary of State and myself, our two Cabinets and the departments concerned, under our jurisdiction, are discussing this issue on a very regular basis. We are following the problem very closely. The return of a person with an illegal residence to his country of origin is only possible with the cooperation of the country of origin in the form of the delivery of a transit passport or a laissez-passer. However, a large proportion of the persons found come from a country to which return is very difficult or temporarily impossible. For example, returning to Sudan, Eritrea and Ethiopia is temporarily impossible. Also the number of places in the closed centres is currently limited and will be expanded. In this context, I quote the following figures. At the beginning of this legislature there were 400 places, and at the moment there are almost 700. With the decisions we have now taken, the projects are ongoing, but the construction of buildings will, unfortunately, take time to reach 1 200 places in closed institutions. Taking into account the currently limited number of places, priority shall be given to the return of criminal aliens without a right of residence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I can only conclude that this is a problem that does indeed require permanent attention. The measures you have taken over the last few days are certainly a step in the right direction. It is not just about measures to monitor parking facilities, but also about the announced expansion of the capacity of closed institutions, which should help to tackle the problem properly. Specifically in West Flanders, the governor is on the same page. It commends such measures because it recognises the need for them. Finally, apart from the police in the line of fire, we must also consider our lorry drivers who are equally in the line of fire and who are faced with these problems. We have to be helpful to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive reply. I fear, however, that the problem will only increase. I already questioned you at the time about the consequences of the new ferry line between Ostend and Ramsgate. You said that this would be monitored. Well, today I read that the vzw Humain advocates a tolerance zone for transmigrants. They therefore openly admit that this will indeed give a suction effect. We must at all costs avoid this becoming a new Calais. However, the Achilles heel remains the forced return. More controls, which is very good, but if the government really wants to tackle the problems of transmigration, it will have to increase drastically the means for forced return of illegal immigrants. You mentioned the number of orders to leave the territory. Well, if 1.8 % of this is done, it is of course mopping with the tap open. You referred to the number of places in the closed institutions, which will increase to 600 or 700 during this legislature, but that is, of course, far too little.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u24	If factual inaccuracies are cited...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u25	You said the number went from 400 to 600 to 700 places and to 1 200 by 2019 or 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u26	Mrs Pas, I have told you that we currently have 600 to 700 places and that centres are now being systematically opened. The number will rise to 1 200.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u27	That's far too little.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u28	Of course, new buildings need to be built. They're planned. Steenokkerzeel will be expanded. In Berendrecht there will be a center. The Walloon place where a center will come, now escapes me. You understand that this requires construction work. So that takes some time. However, it is not the case that at the end of the legislative term there will be only 600 places, which will systematically reach 1 200 places in the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u29	Of course, Minister, it is far too little. Even Mrs. Lanjri found 1 200 places far too little. The current capacity of 600 to 700 places is proposed as a great achievement. I remember, when Mr Francken was still a member of the opposition, Mr Wathelet, at the time Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, had 700 places in closed reception for return. It was currently Secretary of State Francken who, quite rightly, thought that was far too little at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u30	Mrs Pas, we too think that this number is too low.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u31	At that time, however, the problem did not arise in today's order of magnitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u32	Mrs Pas, we also think that this number is too low. You may have a tree from which you can pick buildings that you can place somewhere and use immediately. Then show me where that tree is.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u33	Minister, I note that thousands of places can be created in a few months' time for the reception of refugees, but it is much slower when it comes to creating places in closed institutions for returners. A number of 1 200 places is absolutely far too little.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u34	Mrs Pas, if you agree that we provide for the same kind of security and surveillance of the closed institutions as we do for the reception of refugees, then we will indeed have room in a moment. In that case, however, return policy will be much weaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u35	Mr. Secretary, you shouldn't draw the case on bottles. The conclusion to be drawn is not only that there must be more controls, but also that more resources are needed for forced return, particularly for the establishment of a closed centre, even for the establishment of a separate closed centre for migrants. This is an urgent and compelling necessity, not just to combat symptoms, but to tackle the problem on its merits.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u36	As a Francophone, I intervene very gently with regard to what has been said. I think that, indeed, we are taking the measures that I think are positive. Now, in substance, I hope that we can find solutions that will avoid having to secure the various parking lots, whether by cameras or by the presence of the police, by rounds or on a more permanent basis. I would remind you that motorway parking is initially planned as a stopping place for travellers during their normal itinerary, if I may say so, tourists or Belgians travelling to the coast. It's a first thing. Secondly, I find that what is a bit shocking – perhaps I am going to surprise some of them with what I am going to say, I am telling you personally – is that we are busy doing the job instead of the United Kingdom. Indeed, the latter blocks and finally asks France, Belgium, to do the job for him, the United Kingdom, which is very selfish and wants to leave the European Union! I think one day we'll have to think about that. We are devoting costly and, in part, unpopular measures to this policy. Finally, it is the United Kingdom that "takes away the flutes", as we are told here, because we do the work in their place.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u37	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u38	On Sunday evening, the League of Human Rights has encouraged citizens to prevent an alleged police action against illegal immigrants in the Maximilian Park, by providing shelter to illegal immigrants. According to the president of the league, a tip would have come from the government. The media speak of asylum seekers and illegal immigrants. I think they're both getting mixed up. The police can only act against illegal immigrants, people who refuse to apply for asylum and are here on their way to the United Kingdom. For asylum seekers, our government is offering bed, bath and bread in this winter, pending the processing of their files. The illegals, on the other hand, refuse to submit an application because they fear that they will not be able to travel to the United Kingdom. The threeties of these illegals have also come to light in recent days, with or without organized attacks on policemen in car parks along highways. There is no doubt that everyone has the right to a decent life. Our legislation provides sufficient resources to apply for and obtain asylum if the criteria are met. Of course, it is a free choice, but when someone opposes the rules, that person here is illegal. This is illegal under the law and people who facilitate illegal immigrants also go on slippery ice. Moreover, the action of the League does not provide the refugees in question with a solution. In fact, this pushes them even deeper into the misery. Was there indeed an action planned on Sunday 21 January 2018? Is it true that sources in the government leaked the police action or were there possible sources in the police responsible for the leaks? Are steps being taken to avoid such obstructions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u39	Indeed, an action was planned on Sunday 21 January 2018. An action took place on the platforms and on the train. In that action, 17 people were arrested who were illegally in the country. A complaint was filed and an investigation initiated by the AIG to see if there was indeed a police leak. Each operation starts with an operational analysis. The services take into account the phenomenon of obstruction. Police authorities have been asked to remind all police officers of their professional secrecy and discretion. The investigation has started and I'm looking forward to seeing the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u40	We must, of course, wait and see, Minister. I hope, of course, that there are no leaks. At least they shouldn't be there. It bothers me that the President of the French-speaking wing of the League of Human Rights is taking pride in organising the leaks or at least ensuring that everything ends up with him. Yesterday, during the hearings, it was argued that anyone who wants to stay here should be able to stay. I think we're a long way from home if we follow that view. We must resist this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u41	Mr President, Minister, you have detailed in the press the different types of crime on highway parking in each region of the country. Last September, in your answer to my question No. 19936, you referred to a bill regulating the installation of cameras on motorway parking lots in collaboration with your colleague from the Department of Justice. Minister, can you tell me what the status of this bill is? Are there synergies between your administration and the federated authorities that own the road networks in order to introduce structural measures such as lighting? In Britain, highway parking is private, paying but guarded by security guards. Wouldn't it be a draft solution to make our parking lots pay, locked and guarded?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u42	Mr. Chair, Mr. Flahaux, the camera bill is a bill that does not specifically concern parking, but the use of surveillance cameras in general. The aim is, in fact, to have comprehensive legislation to evolve over time while providing for the protection of citizens' privacy. This bill was tabled in the House on January 4. It is under consideration in the Committee on the Interior. The regional authorities are autonomously competent for the equipment of "motorway car parks" which fall within their competence, such as the installation of lighting, the placement of cameras, fences, etc. Of course, they must take into account the regulations in force in this area, such as the Cameras Act. We are always at the disposal of the federated entities to examine where the problems are and where to install what equipment. In this respect, the communication goes in both directions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u43	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. In fact, the third part of my question, in which I referred to the British solution, is for the Regions, since motorways, and consequently motorway parking, fall within their competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u44	Mr Minister, first of all I would like to congratulate you on the interview you gave today in Sudpresse. The message is clear, clear, precise. It's like politics you're leading. It also allows the people of the southern part of the country to better understand and appreciate it. It is also important to talk about the role of the military in our streets. This has also contributed to the reduction of petty delinquency. In November 2016, a law was enacted to supplement the prerogatives of private security officers. In the face of a growing terrorist threat, this law provided a necessary response to the maintenance of a high level of security for our citizens. In view of the proliferation of terrorist acts in our country in recent years, a firm response was needed. Among the measures adopted were the possibility for private security officers to carry a weapon in the performance of their duties, but only in very specific circumstances. Minister, could you please indicate the number of applications for the possession of weapons issued by private security officers since the Act came into force? Could you please indicate the number of weapons ports currently held by private security officers? At the time of the implementation of this law, some were concerned about private security companies' drifts and possible incidents. Have any incidents related to the use of weapons by security officers been reported by the authorities? Could you please indicate the number of companies authorized to provide training related to the carrying of weapons? The carrying of firearms is now permitted on very specific missions and specific locations. Is this measure intended to be expanded? Are alternatives to lethal weapons, such as batons or tear gas liquids, envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u45	Mr Friart, according to the data available, there are currently 1,468 guard officers in possession of a valid weapons clearance. Since November 10, 2017, the date of entry into force of the new law on the subject, 123 applications have been submitted for the issuance or renewal of an authorization to carry weapons. To date, the administration has not been aware of any incidents involving the use of weapons by guarding agents within the scope of the powers conferred by the Act of 2 October 2017 regulating private and particular security. Four training organizations have been approved for the organization of the training to obtain the certificate of competence of the guarding officer armed mission. That's the official title. Like the former Private Security Act, the new law on this subject considers that the guarding activities of private guarding agents are in principle carried out without a weapon. The explanatory memorandum of the new law on private security points out that guarding officers have a preventive role in the main. The possibility of resorting to force and coercion must therefore be reserved for public officials. The Private Security Act specifies in which arms guarding activities may be used. The carrying out of guarding activities with a weapon requires a special "armed guarding" authorization from the Minister of the Interior, which can only be issued if the undertaking concerned provides proof that it carries out activities requiring the carrying of a weapon and that the use of other means or methods does not sufficiently reduce the particular risk to the security to which the guarding agents or the persons they protect are exposed. In view of the above, I see no reason to extend the legal provisions on the use of weapons by private security officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u46	Minister, thank you for your answers, which satisfy my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u47	Minister, we learn that AFCN would have chosen to give up ISO 9001 certification. As a reminder, this certification is, according to the International Organization for Standardization's website, intended for organizations that must demonstrate their ability to consistently deliver products and services that comply with customer requirements and applicable legal and regulatory requirements, and that aim to increase customer satisfaction through the effective application of the quality management system, including processes for improving the quality management system and ensuring compliance with customer requirements and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. When we know that in the case of AFCN, the service which is "sold" is nuclear safety and that the final customers are all Belgian and border citizens, I do not see how it was, at some point, deemed appropriate to deprive oneself of such certification. I read in the press that AFCN was defending the implementation of a new management system adapted to the rules of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) as a more appropriate solution. I have no problem with that; nevertheless, to my knowledge, this system is not incompatible with ISO 9001 certification. This argument therefore does not satisfy me and raises further questions. Minister, is the current management system adapted to IAEA rules? What really guided AFCN's choice to give up ISO 9001 certification? Has the Commission found, in any way, that it no longer met some of the requirements of this certification? If so, which ones? Will the management system you want to replace ISO 9001 certification be regularly audited by an independent certification body?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u48	Minister, in our previous discussion on the subject you referred to the last IRSS mission. I have delved into the findings of this mission available on the IAEA website. In particular, it states that: "The IRRS team also identified a few areas for further enhancing the effectiveness of the regulatory body, including by completing the program of work on its management system." It is thus clear that to date the management system of the AFCN has not yet been finalized and therefore even less validated and operational. As a result, in early 2017, AFCN abandoned ISO certification, while the system, in its view, would not be operational at best until the end of 2018. By digging a bit, it can be seen that somesteering documents such as directives and charters are still not available. The document "Specification of the creation of a 'Policy' model" was only validated on 19 October 2017. The policies set out the guidelines and operational rules for the operation of the Agency. Out of 14 policies, only 7 have been finalized. The others are at best in the form of working papers. Most processes, procedures, instructions, templates and manuals are still not available. Minister, do you confirm this situation? At the time of the decision to stop ISO 9001, was an alternative system management in place? Was it at least qualitatively equivalent? What guarantee can you give about this? How is such management system incompatible with ISO certification? Could not an ISO 9001-certified management system simply be based on a cross-cutting approach? A management system must refer to something, to a standard. What is the situation in this case? Can you describe the current management system of AFCN? What is the guarantee of the quality of its design? What are the provisions in place to monitor its proper application? What are the provisions in place for the principle of continuous improvement? To what extent is the management system finalized and operational? When did the IRRS validate this management system? What were the findings of the IRRS?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u49	Mr de Lamotte, in fact, the current management system is a recommended management system that meets the criteria of the International Atomic Energy Agency. The AFCN management system is regularly audited during Integrated Regulatory Review Service (IRRS) missions. Mr Nollet, I see, as you say, that you have dug well and that you are very well informed on the subject. I will, however, give you additional information that also answers Mr de Lamotte's questions about the motivation of the AFCN's choice. Yes, Mr. Nollet, I confirm this situation. However, you should be aware that the management system meets a requirement for continuous improvement and cannot therefore be considered as finalised because it is constantly improving. This is in line with one of the Agency's values of seeking continuous improvement. I will answer your second and third questions simultaneously. The non-renewal of certification does not mean that the quality system is no longer in force. Everything that has been developed within the framework of ISO 9001 certification – more than 750 documents – is still current and is gradually being replaced by new documents adapted to the management system. It is therefore a phase of transition and in no way a rupture and abandonment of the developed quality system. It is therefore wrong to consider that an alternative system should be put in place since it is continuity by tilting from one system to another. The Agency's new management system is compatible with ISO 9001/2015 certification. The Agency has been keen to integrate all the requirements of ISO 9001/2015 into its new management system. It incorporates risk analyses as well as the concept of "process". However, AFCN considers that limiting itself to complying with the ISO standard does not contribute to promoting the culture of safety, safety and radiation protection, which is why it prefers to submit itself to the opinion of its peers rather than to the opinion of ISO certifiers, unfamiliar with its mission and with what it involves in terms of culture. Article 8ter, 2° of Euratom Directive 2014/87 requires nuclear safety authorities to set up a management system giving priority to nuclear safety, which is the case of the IAEA's management system, unlike the ISO 9001 system, which, even in its most recent version (2015), focuses only on the concept of service. The management system is therefore better suited to AFCN's mission. Indeed, the management system emphasizes the safety culture and ensures that all aspects of nuclear safety are managed in a cross-cutting manner. The AFCN develops integrated management including safety, radiation protection, human resources, etc. IAEA requirements have been included since 2016 in the document "General Safety Requirements Part I: Leadership and Management for Safety". Previously, they were included in the document "IAEA Safety Standards Series No. GS-R-3". Secondly, the management system must ensure that the Agency's missions are carried out effectively and efficiently through the processes described in the policies. It is organized around a set of policies that cover the Agency's various activities. These policies set out the basic rules and associated processes for their respective areas. In this way, the Agency intends to promote value-added ideas and innovations that enhance collaboration among colleagues. In addition, AFCN applies the requirements of the IAEA – an international organization under the aegis of the United Nations, recognized by 168 member States, whose process cannot be called into question. It is important to note that the management system is a reference document for IAEA peer reviews. You can answer your eighth question in two parts. On the one hand, the Agency is itself putting in place mechanisms. Secondly, external controls are carried out by international bodies. First, the Agency applies the methodology recommended by the Institute of Internal Auditors, namely the Three Lines of Defense and Effective Risk Management and Control. Second, the AFCN management system is regularly audited during the Integrated Regulatory Review Series (IRRS) missions. In addition, the Agency has developed a continuous improvement process that is already in place. This is essential for the proper functioning of the management system. Your first question contains the answer to your tenth question. On your eleventh question, during IRRS 2013, the experts made a suggestion on management system and, I quote:"FANC should consider continuing the development and implementation of an integrated management system. This should include processes for assessment and continuous improvement [[."]] During the December 2017 follow-up mission (this information is a preview), the suggestion was considered closed. Indeed, the findings of this mission indicate that: "The suggestion is closed on the basis of progress made in confidence and actual achievement. FANC has decided to complete renew its management system with different approaches to achieve the goal of integrating the management system. Good progresses have been made but there is still some work to do to finalize the project. FANC management committed to finalize the management system within the next years."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u50	Minister, thank you. I will read your answer carefully because it is indeed long enough. Nevertheless, I am concerned about a phenomenon that does not appear in your answer unless I have been distracted or have been able to understand everything: it is the lack of intervention by an outside agency that is not the IAEA or linked to the sector. I did not understand in your answer that the ISO 9001 certification system guarantees independent certification. So I'm still in doubt.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u51	It all depends on the definition of "independence". The IAEA (with its subsidiaries) is a body created to carry out these checks, and in this case it is the IRRS. But it also depends on the IAEA. The problem with ISO is that its standards were not suitable for the nuclear sector. It was just a part of certain elements, not, for example, human resources. We believe that this system is much more comprehensive and adapted to the sector and our objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u52	This means, therefore, that things were not incompatible, that this external certification could have been received and that ISO 9001 standards could have been updated for this type of control. I am still hesitant about the question. In good time, I'll come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u53	I thank the minister for his answer. Thank you very much! I will, however, also take time to decrypt your answer. I'd like to react to something. I do not want to deny the interest and importance of a management system, including its peer review component. But just as I do not want to deny it, I ask you not to deny the interest and importance of having a completely external look outside the nuclear environment. You're from the private sector. I was talking about it with my colleague Vanden Burre, who, like you, comes from the private sector. In banks, the IT sector and everywhere, ISO 9001 is used, which is not incompatible but, on the contrary, complementary to bank-specific or IT-specific management systems. Why, if not, would AFCN have operated from 2008 until 2017 with this ISO 9001, even though it was useless to it? No, it's useful! But at some point, a difficulty has arisen and, in my view, objectives have either not been achieved or no longer achieved or no longer wanted to be achieved. I'll take the time to reread your answer. But I would like to ask you one thing: suggest that AFCN take up the challenge, i.e. go back to ISO 9001 to show us that there was no reason to be fearful about this withdrawal and that they are ready to play the game and to take up this challenge! You're from the private sector, and so is my colleague. He knows many experiences which show that, everywhere, we are going to look for this external look because, indeed, it brings cross-cutting credibility, not specific to the sector but cross-cutting and which is useful. I thank Mr Vanden Burre for sharing his experience in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u54	Minister, I wanted to start this question in English, but given the high linguistic level of the committee between Mr Nollet and the minister, I will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u55	There are only five languages in which I can quote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u56	I wanted to ask you about your proposal, together with your party president, to recruit citizens on a voluntary basis in order to carry out police duties. This proposal raises many concerns, especially since it is not detailed at this stage. A question has already been asked about this on 17 January by my colleague Nawal Ben Hamou. You said on that day: "The mayor of Antwerp" – Bart De Wever, of the N-VA, your party – "expressed his ambition to strengthen the Antwerp police by engaging volunteers who will also highlight community values of respect, commitment and pride of the Antwerp police but also of all other local and federal police areas. Help, especially at events, would be more than welcome. In concrete terms, the mayor intends to hire volunteers to carry out missions during events, as well as administrative or logistical support missions. By hiring volunteers, the police will therefore be better able to focus on its core missions for which police competence is required. To be clear, missions for which police competence is required in the field of public order will continue to be carried out by police officers. But volunteers can be trained, such as police officers, and retired police officers can, if they so wish, make further contributions. There is one." You then cited examples from the Netherlands, France, Great Britain and the State of New York, where such devices would already be applicable. I would like to ask you for more details on the type of legal framework that you would like to give to this proposal, which seems to us, at the level of my group, to be at first glance very problematic in terms of the vision of society. But everything depends on the extent you want to give it. From the moment you launch shock proposals in a public way, it is important to clarify them. When you mention as possible tasks for these volunteers, missions during events, but also administrative or logistical support missions, what exactly are you thinking about? Could you give specific examples? Could such citizen police officers, for example, provide security at the entrance to a public event? Could they react to problems or search? Would there be any possibility for these police citizens to be armed in any way, whether with sprays, batons, white weapons or not? Finally, can you give more details on the devices you referred to in your previous answer, the legal arrangements that exist in France, the Netherlands and Great Britain?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u57	Mr Vanden Burre, as I have already stated in the answer you have mentioned, I am open to any innovative initiative that can help alleviate certain police tasks so that our police services can focus on their essential tasks. I think I made it clear in the committee on 17 January. Missions for which police competence is required in the field of public order will continue to be carried out by police officers. The tasks that can be carried out by volunteers in the context of securing and managing events are still under consideration. Support tasks that could be envisaged by the Antwerp police zone, in the context of event management, may be, for example, monitoring missions at major events (10 Miles, balances, premetro) and perimeter monitoring in the context of a fire, a serious road accident or Car-Free Day in Antwerp, etc. I would remind you that the volunteers concerned will not have police skills and will not be armed. The current legal framework does not allow this. So your search or armament questions don't apply. They are also expected to carry out these support missions under the systematic supervision of police officers. In case of a problem, to clarify, the police officer is competent to respond appropriately. The Antwerp police area will clearly define its needs in a broader context and taking into account the regulations. One of the first tasks of this project is also to clarify the regulatory provisions and to examine on this basis the possibilities and/or adaptations that might be made. I also recall that this is a local initiative and not a goal of the federal government's agreement or my 2018 policy plan. I should also like to point out that this case does not constitute a precedent. Other police areas have already used it, and the CPPL's investigation shows that two thirds of the police areas are in favour of it. I therefore remain convinced that it is important to allow such practical cases. To answer your fourth question, the cabinet of the mayor of the City of Antwerp has carried out an in-depth study on this subject which tends towards a mixture of the French model and the Dutch model. In summary, the following three models exist: the Anglo-Saxon model, the Dutch model and the French model. First of all, there is the Anglo-Saxon model. Auxiliary police officers can be found in many English-speaking countries, some of whom provide some form of community services often free of charge. They also perform regular police missions and are usually equipped with truncheons. They more or less fulfil the role of the police officer. A job as an auxiliary can be a springboard to the regular body. But I said earlier that in Antwerp they are contemplating a system that is a mix between the Dutch system and the French system. The Anglo-Saxon model was therefore not retained. Secondly, there is the Dutch model, according to which volunteer police officers are paid volunteers who receive €7.22/hour. They are on duty at least 240 hours a year. Their training lasts 63 weeks, allowing them to carry out duties that are rather the responsibility of the regular police. They can, for example, take arrested persons to the office. However, they mainly perform surveillance, traffic management, prevention and support to neighbourhood teams. They wear a normal police uniform and are equipped with a truncheon and pepper spray. The system has existed in an evolutionary form since 1948. There are about 3,000 volunteers in the Netherlands. This is how I get to the French model. The civil reserve dates back to 2003, under the chairmanship of Jacques Chirac. It has mainly made it known under the Dutch government for its availability during major disasters, such as the terrorist attacks in Nice. The focus is specifically on former military personnel, ex-police officers aged 18 to 65, as well as professionals who can provide support to the police as lawyers, IT or translators. These reservists are not armed but wear a uniform with a particular emblem. They receive 10 days of paid training and can be mobilised up to 90 days a year, mainly to carry out monitoring missions. There's about 12,000 of them. I stress that we did not want the volunteers to be armed, unlike the Dutch system, which plans to arm them slightly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u58	Minister, I thank you for this long and detailed answer that I will be very interested in. Several elements pose profound questions of social vision, of general policy vision. As you said, this is not included in your policy note. If that were the case, we would have debated it a lot. This is all the more regrettable as it comes a bit from advertising effects, from a test carried out on Antwerp. It becomes customary for you to launch ideas and then – we don't know when – they become reality. You yourself say that it is under study, that you will propose a mix of the different models and perform a test on Antwerp. There seems to be a willingness to push this system across Belgium. I have been telling you for years: from the moment there is a certain lack, priority is given to the recruitment of additional police officers. I know you've hired them every year, at least since the end of 2016. Nevertheless, this gives the cruel impression that this type of arrangement is there to compensate for the fact that not enough police officers have been hired in the past. This first element is fundamental to us. The debate on police tasks is also at the heart of the issue. I note that these volunteers will not be armed and will not conduct searches. All right! It's something already. But here, you're talking about surveillance tasks. You have cited examples of surveillance, such as perimeters around football matches or the 10 Miles of Antwerp. But what can the person who monitors, even accompanied by police officers, actually do? Will we move towards a system where, in the end, if accidents occur, we will allow it, for example, to use a spray? We are putting our finger in a gear, opening Pandora's box – entrusting citizens with the work of police officers – which is extremely problematic for us. Finally, I cannot help but think that this also has a somewhat demoralizing effect, destabilizing for police officers, to whom it is explained today that their work will be done in part by third parties – volunteers, retired police officers. I don't think these are very positive messages to the entire police force. We will remain very attentive to this issue because fundamental visions of society are at stake here and I have the impression that we are only at the beginning. We do tests, we evaluate, we study and tomorrow we will arrive with much stronger proposals. We will certainly come back to that!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u59	Debates of the European Parliament 23258 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u60	Minister, in our previous discussion on the subject, we agreed to go back to it, because your answer was incomplete in the light of the perfectly understandable trauma that the Agency can bring about with the many redundancies envisaged, while its tasks and their importance are only growing. I therefore resolved to put the matter again, but between the time of the tabling and the commission, Minister, I read in the press that the idea of layoffs had been abandoned. I will obviously ask you to confirm this information. That would be troubling for me, because, fifteen days ago, you did not say a word in that sense when I asked you the question. It would also be important to understand what was behind this project. What were his intentions? What was the motivation behind the eight layoffs that were planned when a new Director General was about to arrive? What positions were targeted? What were the criteria and motivations that would have identified the persons concerned? On the basis of which legal and negotiated sector committee system – which you are chairing – would these dismissals have been organised when, to my knowledge, there is not yet a legal system for assessing the performance of agents at AFCN? Do you guarantee that these people will be replaced and that this was not a job removal? As the appropriate minister, do you find it normal and acceptable for the Agency to proceed by drawing on its reserves to finance these redundancies? What do you intend to put in place to ensure that Recommendation 15 of the resolution adopted, almost unanimously by our Assembly – minus three abstentions – on 26 April 2007 is respected? Could you provide us with complete information on the use of the reservations envisaged by the AFCN? Finally, could you provide me with the opinion of the FPS Budget on the proposed budget tabled by the PSAN? This project did include the layoffs that are being discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u61	Mr Nollet, no provision has been made for termination benefits in the 2018 budget. A discussion took place between the Management Committee and the Board of Directors in order to mobilise reserves to cover possible staff movements. However, this idea was not retained. There is no plan to remove positions. Moreover, the life of any organization is made up of departures and arrivals. These movements can have an impact on the organization's budget. I therefore stress that these discussions were based solely on possible movements. If an individual dismissal is to take place, the criteria or reasons for the dismissal are always based on unacceptable behaviour and/or poor results, and on the repetition of these results. AFCN's employees are covered by the General Employee Act, in combination with the Agency's internal rules negotiated in a sector committee. Decisions are therefore taken and implemented in accordance with those decisions. As part of the day-to-day management of human resources, this will depend on the context and timing of termination. However, I have already confirmed to you that there is no plan to remove positions. The reserves have been established by the AFCN and the AFCN does not freely dispose of them. In accordance with recommendation 15 of the resolution adopted on 26 April 2007, the use of these reservations is subject to the prior approval of the Board of Directors. The current reserve represents a year of operation of the Agency. For the 2018 budget year, the Board of Directors does not envisage any use of the reserve, resulting in a balanced 2018 budget, approved by the Board of Directors on 18 December 2017. I can give you a concrete example of an allocation of the current reserves. This is the modernization of TELERAD in 2010. Finally, I invite you to submit your request directly to the AFCN, but I can already inform you that Budget 2018 was approved by the Budget Minister on January 12.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u62	Mr Minister, I thank you first of all because – you will admit it yourself – your response completes the one you gave me last year. At least we're clear. It appears that the steering committee did intend to dismiss eight people. That's the number in the note. However, I understood in your reply that the board of directors had refused to enter into this logic – and that seems commendable to me. Of course, there are always movements, entries, etc., but we are talking well now about a plan in relation to budgetary objectives, which has been blocked by the board of directors. Having said that, I still do not understand what were the ulterior thoughts of those who had imagined this plan, i.e. the managers of the company. This poses a serious problem to me; and I am not talking about your answer, but about their lack of explanation as to their motivations. The fact that management has designed such a plan is in itself worrying. And this is all the more so because – as I am sure you will have read in the press – the unions rightly note the structural difficulty of the Agency's funding arrangements and, at the same time, the total lack of strategic vision on the part of management. Indeed, it does not indicate how it will manage nuclear and financial phasing out. I will ask you again about this in order to explore this aspect of the problem. The final deadline is 2025, but this lack of anticipation is an indicator that should be of concern to us. I will conclude with the recommendation of April, which is of great interest to you. You referred to TELERAD's funding in this way, but I would like to stress, Minister, that this recommendation mentions in the first place the fact that the reserves should be allocated to the ongoing training of staff. I find it a pity that in your answer, we do not feel that the officials consider that the reserves must be affected as well – and I would say very strongly – to this need for continuing training. I think, however, that the Agency regularly reads our exchanges; it would be good if it could apply it after reading what is said here. We know that things are changing very quickly in the nuclear and nuclear security sector. I believe that providing sufficient resources for this training would also be a good signal alongside the signal given by the board of directors, namely to have blocked this intention of the steering committee. However, on training, if I can rely on you to convey the message to the Agency, by recalling this 15 recommendation, which was voted almost unanimously by the assembly, that would be a good thing. Minister, I hope I can count on you for that too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u63	Minister, in April 2016, during an inspection, the French Nuclear Safety Authority (NSA) discovered at the nearby Gravelines site the existence of 11 illegal pipelines, which had not been provided for by the order regulating discharges from the plant. The substances released from these pipes, which were discharged into the canal and into the sea, had not been the subject of any environmental assessment. However, some were intended to evacuate stormwater flowing into areas likely to be contaminated by radioactive elements (including tritium, an extremely penetrating substance that could cause damage to DNA). Others were evacuating liquid waste from areas of hydrochloric acid or hydrocarbons. While the ASN had ordered EDF to regularize the situation, a new inspection carried out in December 2017 highlighted the let go that continued to reign at the plant. Among these illegal pipes, some were to be temporarily diverted to other pipes. However, it appears that for the majority of them, the pumps intended to allow the diversion of their discharges were not functioning, revealing a significant lack of monitoring and maintenance of these facilities. As for the remaining illegal pipelines, their effluents were not subject to rigorous control, in particular with regard to measures to control the absence of radioactivity. In addition, one of these pipes was not leakproof and had not been equipped with a filter. Many other irregularities were also noted at the site during this inspection. These facts are indicative of the recurrent negligence of the Gravelines power station with regard to safety and must all the more alert us as a neighbouring country that these problems appear due to structural malfunctions which endanger both workers and residents and add to the general poor condition of the installations. It should be remembered that the plant, due to its seafront location, is particularly prone to corrosion and that aging equipment shows signs of weakness. Two tritium leaks have already taken place in 2013 and 2014, a plug had to be placed in order to overcome a crack in a tank bottom penetration on reactor 1 and repairs of the DIY order had to be carried out to strengthen tubes of weakened steam generators. Mr Minister, I would like to know whether you have already asked your French colleague about this. If so, what were the terms of trade? If not, can you do so without delay, given the potential danger posed by this collapse to the situation on our coast and coast?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u64	Mr President, Mr Nollet, you do not escape the fact that the French Nuclear Safety Authority is responsible for monitoring the safety of French nuclear power plants. This is not the case with France, but other countries want to get involved in our debate and we will not interfere in French affairs. The ASN ensures that French operators take the necessary steps to ensure the safety of their nuclear facilities at all times. In France, nuclear safety is not the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. Other ministers have competence in this area, for example in nuclear safety regulations, but in general it falls under the responsibility of the Nuclear Safety Authority and the College of Commissioners of the Nuclear Safety Authority reports to Parliament. Crisis management, on the other hand, is the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. As I had already announced here, I put the topic of nuclear safety on the agenda of my meeting on 23 January with the French Minister of the Interior, on the sidelines of the International Cybersecurity Forum in Lille. On that occasion, I mentioned the questions that Mr Gilkinet and you had asked about a few specific incidents, particularly in Chooz, but also about the collaboration between our two countries. As far as crisis management is concerned, we already have useful contacts at all times, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and useful contacts within the framework of the European Mechanism. Contacts and projects also exist between governors and prefects of border provinces. However, there is still no real structured collaboration at national level for crisis preparedness. That is why we have agreed to clarify binational mechanisms for cooperation in crisis situations. A contact person will be designated in this regard. Among the objectives is the revitalisation of the working group "Protection of populations in the context of nuclear risk". As far as security authorities are concerned, AFCN has been organizing regular bilateral meetings with the ASN for years. During these meetings, information on the state of the plants in each border area – including Chooz and Gravelines – is regularly exchanged. The point you are referring to regarding the Gravelines power plant was discussed at the beginning of November 2017 between AFCN and its French counterpart. The IRSN letter on fire safety in Chooz was also reviewed during one of these meetings. The NSA indicated that it was following these files carefully. I am therefore convinced that the French authorities will give appropriate follow-up to this case if it proves necessary. Mr Nollet, you will understand that it is not possible for me to comment on technical problems taking place outside our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u65	Minister, thank you for that answer, which I will take time to analyse. In fact, you are also answering another question that I have postponed several times regarding your contacts with your counterpart. I'll see if I have to go back to that part. I will certainly pass on your answer to my colleague who has also asked you about it. As far as the Gravelines power station is concerned, I understand that you have referred to the problem and that the AFCN has discussed it with its counterpart. I take your difference from the Germans or the Dutch as far as foreign power plants are concerned. Nevertheless, my angle of approach was to say that if there are consequences for the North Sea, we will also be impacted. Even if you do not enter into the technicality of things, politically, it is necessary to regularly question your counterpart, which you seem to have done. We will remain attentive to these aspects relating to the Chooz and Gravelines power plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u66	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Thiébaut and Mr 23321 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u67	Mr Minister, it is my colleague Julie Fernandez who deals in principle with this matter and asks you about it. I am referring to the Sudanese who were expelled to their country of origin by Belgium. I will address today the long-awaited report of the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons. It's January 31. The Prime Minister had committed to release the report at the end of the month. However, information in the press indicates that it would not have been passed on to your firm. No intermediate conclusion would even have been reached. That is why I would like confirmations or infirmations in this regard. I will ask you questions related to the current situation, but also others that remain outstanding as to the very nature of this mission. Minister, have you received any conclusions from the CGRA? Can you communicate to Parliament any documents that have been transmitted to you? What exactly is the mandate given to the CGRA in this file? Is it an investigation, as I was able to read again in the press, or a report? Have international organizations been involved in this mission? Do people have or will they be sent to the site? If so, according to which procedures? What is the status of this issue to date? If you have not yet received any conclusions, what time horizon is it set for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u68	Mr Kir, following a decision taken in the Council of Ministers, I asked the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons, Mr Dirk Van den Bulck, to open an investigation into reports of torture of Sudanese migrants on their return. He is completely free in how to lead it. I didn't want anyone to blame me for getting involved. In this regard, it can also involve international partners such as the United Nations and relevant agencies. We did not impose a timetable, but it was requested that this investigation be carried out as soon as possible. I didn't tell him it had to be ready before the end of January. I gave him every freedom to lead to a quality investigation. To date, I have not yet received a report from the Commissioner General or an interim conclusion. I hope to receive it in the next few days. According to the latest information, this should be done next week. As already stated, Mr. Van den Bulck and his services conduct this investigation independently. As long as I do not have the final report, it is obviously impossible for me to comment on the content or methodology used.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u69	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. I understand that we will have to wait a little longer for the Office of the Commissioner to complete this investigation. You recalled that this is an independent investigation, with the cooperation of international organizations and the United Nations. The European Commission allegedly refused to participate in this investigation. Can you confirm this position of the European Commission? With regard to the United Nations, have any contacts been made with its representatives? We are awaiting an investigation, which must not hide what has happened, namely that people have been sent back to Sudan, with the strong suspicion that they would have been subjected to torture upon their arrival on the spot. With the government, you have committed yourself not to deport to Sudan any more, but, in Dublin, we continue to return to third countries. Do we not, in fact, continue to expel indirectly to Sudan today? Can you assure us today that Belgium, through Dublin, does not actually continue to return to Sudan? In essence, the commitment you and the Government have made not to expel to Sudan any more is facialally in relation to, I would say, expulsions from Belgium, but in reality, in a number of cases, in the context of Dublin transfers, this could continue. I would like to hear your reaction, because if the government undertakes not to expel to Sudan, either directly or indirectly, that should be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u70	First of all, I have no information about any contacts with certain departments. It is the reading of the report that will teach us more. In this respect, I have not imposed anything. On the European side, I read in the press that shortly after the start of the investigation and just after the Christmas holidays, the European Union authorities said that they had not yet had contact with them. I have not read or heard that they refuse contact. I didn't hear that. I heard at some point that no contact had yet been established between the two. This is all the information I have. Furthermore, the Dublin Regulation can only be applied with the countries of the European Union, all of which are bound by Article 3. If the Dublin Regulation and other international agreements are applied, it is in no way with the intention of seeing people sent back to Sudan. Applying Dublin means applying the available legal framework. We do not want people to be sent back to Sudan by this way. I believe that all European countries must agree and respect the same international agreement. The same applies to the European treatment of human rights and Article 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u71	Minister, your message is clear. We are, of course, continuing to implement the Dublin Agreement. This means that we do not have the guarantee today that there are no expulsions by these countries to Sudan. That's a fact. I would therefore like, as soon as you receive the report, to know about it and to work on its basis in the Committee on the Interior. I thank the Minister for these additional elements of the response.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u72	Mr President, Minister, I was just asking questions about road safety in the Infrastructure Committee. Enforcement is also an important issue. A large number of numerical targets have been put forward with regard to road safety, but also with regard to the number of enforcement initiatives and controls. The coalition agreement states that one in three drivers wants to check for alcohol, drugs and seat belts. Also for breath tests, numerical targets are put forward. It is therefore important to follow up the checks. Putting objectives is a matter of course, but following up on them is not unimportant. A few weeks ago, I asked for figures on the enforcement of zones 30 in response to a question I had received. Is that actually sufficiently controlled? On such questions we do get figures on the number of infringements registered, but not on the number of checks organised. However, it would be useful for policy makers to have these figures available. Hence my suggestion that a central registration system should be set up to monitor the number of checks on various traffic offences. We have already discussed this in connection with a question, to which you replied that your administration intended to bring together a working group to analyse all traffic-related procedures with a view to their optimization, in cooperation with the police and the judiciary. After all, the local police would have been a party for years asking for registration through a one-off view. Of course, it is not the intention to introduce a registration system that will create a lot of additional administrative workload, but with the current technological means it should be possible to record it fairly easily. Mr Minister, can you give us some figures on the number of registered checks on alcohol, drugs, seat belts and speed over the last five years? Has your administration already set up this working group, which is referred to in an answer to a similar question? This working group would analyse traffic-related procedures to improve registration. Could you give me some explanation on this? What further steps will you take to evaluate and achieve the objective of the number of checks?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u73	Mr President, although there is already a national registration system for the understanding of alcohol, drugs and speed controls, these are unfortunately not systematically completed by all services and for all subjects. The registration of the checks takes place within the ISLP module, that is the administrative handling. That's a manual conception. The data is therefore not extracted directly from the control equipment. I will give you the figures, but I will also give you the table. It concerns the infringements identified between 2013 and the first semester of 2017. For alcohol controls: 48 000 in 2013 and 24 000 in the first semester of 2017. For speed checks: 3.2 million in 2013 and 1.7 million in the first semester of 2017. For drug controls: 3 300 in 2013 and 3 500 in the first semester of 2017. For controls on seat belts and child seats: 99 000 in 2013 and 33 000 in the first semester of 2017. You get the exact figures for all years. The question to which you refer was asked and answered by then Secretary of State Fonck. Since I was not aware of this, the working group concerned has not yet been set up by my administration. I will now instruct my services to consider whether we should set up the working party or not. In the province of Antwerp, the WODCA database was abolished and the central registration of ISLP is chosen from which a list of WODCA actions is drawn. With this it is clear that a one-off view can be achieved. It seems logical to me that the local corps should be further encouraged through the VCLP and other channels to do so. I will therefore ask through them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You also raised the question that was put to Secretary of State Fonck at the time. The figures you give, of course, relate to the number of offences. In fact, they do not reflect the number of checks being organised. However, I believe that we, as policy-makers, should work on this point because it could be a very good and useful evaluation system. We can therefore compare police zones which may be somewhat hunted down in order to pay some extra attention to certain important traffic issues. I look forward to further steps on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u75	Mr President, Minister, you may have seen, as I do, that a website called "protegeton pays.be" has been put online by people whose identity is not known, but of whom it seems clear that they could have links with the far right. This site encourages Belgian citizens to denounce their neighbours, their knowledge that would participate in solidarity actions in support of migrants from Maximilian Park. Minister, are you aware of this site? Considering its purpose, what follow-up is provided by your services? Are measures taken to secure closure? Have any technical means been used to identify the authors? Have other sites of the same acabit been identified? Has the prosecution seized the case? What penalties are incurred by the perpetrators?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u76	Mr. Chairman, Mrs.Ben Hamou, the site protectton pays.be does not exist, but the site protectton pays.com does exist. This is important because this site is not hosted in Belgium or Europe. However, situations can be reported in France as well as Belgium such as the accommodation of illegal immigrants, the transport of illegal immigrants, etc. Penalties are provided for in the Belgian Act of 15 December 1980 on access to the territory, residence, establishment and removal of aliens. I am thinking in particular of Article 77 and Article 77a of the said Law. These offences are only committed when there is a property benefit. The situations that the site requests to report are therefore not punishable. In addition, in the event of an offence, it is desirable for the citizen to address the competent public service, i.e. the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police services, rather than a site hosted abroad. In view of the secrecy of the investigation, I am not, as Minister of the Interior, aware of the cases before the Prosecutor's Office, either by police minutes or by minutes of a citizen's complaint. Penalties depend on the criminalization chosen by the Public Prosecutor's Office (privacy offences, interference with the public service, etc.).). For further information on the legal aspect, I refer you to my colleague Koen Geens, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u77	Minister, thank you. What difference between ".be" or ".com"? The website exists and it's cold in the back. To what drifts are we going today? Let me say that, but it is because of the migration policy that you are pursuing today! You want to criminalize solidarity. This is what our society is going to strive for: for delation!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u78	Minister, the residents of the Tihange nuclear power plant are used to hearing the warning sirens that are regularly tested every first Thursday of the month. You have taken the option of no longer using these sirens and replacing them with the only BE-Alert system. Can you tell me how many Hutois are already registered in BE-Alert? Can you tell me how many Antwerpers are already registered in BE-Alert? Can you give me the proportion of BE-Alert subscribers for the entire perimeter currently covered by the sirens? Can you tell me when the sirens will stop being used? Do you not think that for hazardous sites such as nuclear power plants, the dual BE-Alert and sirens system should prevail?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u79	Mr Nollet, currently 455 citizens have indicated an address in Huy, while 11,197 have indicated an address in Antwerp. These figures are obviously proportional to the number of inhabitants of these two municipalities. However, you know that Hutois and Antwerp would not be the only people concerned if an incident occurred in one of the nuclear power stations located near these two municipalities. That is why the number of registrants, since we speak of registered citizens rather than subscribers, which would imply a cost to the citizen, within the perimeter covered by the sirens, is also interesting. In fact, in an area of 20 km around the Doel power station, 4,298 people are registered on BE-Alert; in the area of 20 km around the Tihange power station, 2,396 people. These numbers are increasing every day. In addition, the BE-Alert approach also includes Alert-SMS technology, which allows, in a situation of acute crisis, and with the collaboration of mobile telephone operators, to send a message to all open gsms in a given area, whether or not their owner is registered with BE-Alert, whether he resides in the area or is in transit there. This also applies to people from abroad. They will receive the message on their mobile. To answer your next question, do you know that sirens were never used, not even during the single activation of the nuclear and radiological emergency plan for Belgian territory, following the IRE incident in August 2008? However, sirens are tested daily in silent mode and quarterly in an audible manner for the surrounding population. From these quarterly tests which have been conducted for decades, it appears that many citizens do not hear them because their homes are better isolated or because they operate in a noisy environment. They can, for example, have a helmet on their ears or work close to machines, etc. And those who hear them do not understand clearly what action is expected, whether it is a shelter or an evacuation test. As communicated at the end of last year, sirens will still be tested during 2018 but defective elements will no longer be maintained. Starting in 2019, the network will gradually be dismantled. Secondly, taking into account the previous answers and the lessons learned from the numerous siren tests, it seems to me that a more modern, efficient and flexible tool should replace them. This tool would allow me or the governor of the province concerned, via the Crisis Centre, to quickly and precisely prevent the population from taking reflex actions in the event of a nuclear incident. It would be a tool that would alert citizens by telephone or text, whether registered or not, and generate instructions via email or social media, in combination with other more traditional means of alerting, such as door-to-door or police speakers. It is by combining these different channels that the population can be optimally covered. This SMS alert system also allows for an information message or concrete actions, while sirens remain a one-dimensional tool.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u80	Minister, I fully agree with your comments that the text message can be much more comprehensive, particularly with regard to the recommendations to be followed. Should we calm down? Should we run? Of course I'm caricatured. But it is true that it is easier to communicate. Nevertheless, I still think that in this kind of place, the combination, is preferable: the police that pass through the streets and the sirens that spread the alarm signal faster and everywhere, in addition to the text messages. But for the one who doesn't have his gsm, it won't be obvious either. I agree with you that sirens alone are no longer able to match a need for security. I asked myself questions, I don't know if you remember, a year or a year and a half ago, after a report on the news. In Huy, there were places where the inhabitants did not hear the mermaid. You mentioned it, I believe, in speaking of the best insulation of the houses; but even open windows, they did not hear. I'll come back with the idea of the combination, including sirens. I would like to check one thing: you did not mention the proportion of BE-Alert subscribers for the entire perimeter. You gave me the number. I've scored 4,298 for Doel, 2,396 for Tihange, but what's the proportion? What percentage? Having a number of 4,000 is good. To say that this is growing, it is also, but I fear that by the end of the year the proportion will remain low. In Huy, you quoted the figure of 455. It's the only city. I have no idea of the entire 20-kilometre perimeter. That is why I have clearly asked you the question of the proportion, but you have not answered. Maybe you have the number?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u81	I gave the proportions: 455 citizens for Huy and 11 200 in Antwerp. The proportion is equal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u82	And in terms of percentage?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u83	In Antwerp, 500,000 people live. I think that in the case of disasters, whatever they may be, in this case nuclear, we are going to activate the Alert-SMS system immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u84	Yeah, I get it and I see how useful it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u85	It has nothing to do with being registered or not. Your gsm should only be on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u86	I'll come back with that question. I'll calculate the proportions since you can't give them for the perimeter as a whole. Of course, the push system is very important in this kind of situation because, thanks to it, everyone receives the text message, whether you are a subscriber or not. I think we need to continue to inform and campaign for people to subscribe to BE-Alert, because this system is useful and it is even greater if there are many registrants. This can be an opportunity in these regions to do so even if it is valid for the whole country. The first wave of BE-Alert subscriptions has taken place among the people who follow the news. You even mentioned it in committee. But I'm afraid it's more complicated to reach the circles a little further away. There is a need to disseminate information to the general public, and I have no doubt that this will be the case in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u87	Mr Nollet, I wonder if we should do an Alert-SMS to activate the BE-Alert.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u88	That's a good idea. If people check once, it'll be settled. I can only support this idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u89	According to a press article, more and more incidents related to the use of drones are reported in Belgium. There are 15 incidents reported in 2017 – more than one per month. Faced with this multiplication of encounters of an unwanted type, the public air traffic control company, Belgocontrol, with the Directorate-General of Transport and the company Unifly have decided to launch two digital platforms that will gather all the information potentially useful to drone pilots, professional on the one hand, private "leisure" on the other. I asked you on 13 September last in committee about the new rules for the use of drones. You told me that a working group with all the actors involved in the issue (police, defence, Directorate-General for Air Traffic and Civil Security) was set up to look at a circular. Minister, four months after this response, what is the status of the working group's conclusions? What about the circular? Are you considering other initiatives to address this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u90	Mr Kir, since your parliamentary question, the working group has continued its work. It follows the evolution of the problem, in particular on the question of countermeasures, both for identification and neutralization. With regard to the questions of the mayors, the circular published in the course of 2017 helped to remove a number of uncertainties. The platform to be set up by the Mobility FPS will facilitate the work of police and local authorities by providing real-time data on flight operations. This platform will be accessible to all local authorities in order to locate drones. The other questions concern my colleague Bellot, who is responsible for mobility and Belgocontrol.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u91	Minister, could I have the circular issued in 2017 sent to me? I had not grasped this aspect of things. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u92	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Top's 23359 and 23361 were converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 23368 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u93	Minister, as from 1 March 2018, a new Roll-on/Roll offline for freight transport between Ostend and Ramsgate will normally be launched. On 9 October 2017, the management committee of the Haven Ostend reached agreement in principle with Seabourne Freight. The new connection concerns guided cargo. This means a connection for truck drivers crossing the Channel with their cargo. The plan is for three ships to sail six a day. There is also an option for passenger transport in the future. After the bankruptcy of TransEuropa Ferries in 2013, there were no ferry connections between Ostend and England. But Ostend, especially in the last few years of ferry connections to England, has suffered a great deal from illegal transit migrants. At the time, there was a greater sense of insecurity in Ostend than in other center cities, and there was also a relationship between crime, especially property crimes, and the presence of illegal transit migrants. Following the disappearance of the ferry line in 2013, the presence of illegal migrants and crime decreased. Police Chief Philip Caestecker announced to MO*magazine in an interview on 30 May 2012, I quote: "However, in recent years Ostend has received more migrants because our port, unlike Zeebrugge, has supervised transport. That narrows the chances of you getting into the wrong harbor. " Even now it will be again about accompanied transport. Near the port of Ostend and the station is also the Maria Hendrikapark. In the past many illegal transit migrants stayed there. The danger is not that the same scenario will be repeated, especially if one suspects that there is less control and protection of the port in Ostend than in Zeebrugge, Dunkirk or Calais. The mayor of Ostend, Johan Vande Lanotte, has stated that the local police would apparently be strengthened with 10 additional people to ensure that there is no nuisance. The cost of this would be financed with part of the port's revenue. There would also be reinforcements with the railway police and 16 additional people with the shipping police. Minister, I gave you a long explanation for a rather general but clear question. I would like to hear from you what general and special measures will be taken to prevent the same problems arising from the past, that there could be a Calais in Ostend and that security at the port of Ostend would be much less than in Zeebrugge or Calais because of the risks and problems arising from it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u94	Mr Vermeulen, the ferry company Seabourne Freight does indeed intend to start a new Roll-on/Roll-off connection from Ostend to Ramsgate. Negotiations with both ports are in full swing, but starting operations on 1 March 2018 is not a viable map. As soon as all contracts are signed, a lot of infrastructure remains to be done. The impact of this RoRo connection with guided cargo on transmigration is, of course, difficult to estimate, but it is not unthinkable that migrants or smugglers will also use this new route. Unlike in the past, with TransEuropa Ferries, clear agreements were made with Seabourne Freight and the city administration regarding the security of the terminal. For example, the terminal around it needs to be equipped with a new four meter high fencing on the outside of the existing fence. This new fine-meshed and unclimbable fencing is also equipped with razor wiring so that an intrusion on the ground is severely made difficult. Furthermore, the port company AGHO guarantees the installation of a performant and high-tech camera system at this terminal. The terminal operator provides 24 to 24 hours and 7 to 7 days reception with permanent assistance from a private security guard with patrol dog. In addition, there are two additional patrol dog guides on the waiting and boarding areas. The camera system itself is followed 24/7 by a terminal staff member so that the patrol dog guides can be immediately released to a location where migrants approach the outside fence. All freight tickets are reserved in advance and the terminal operator will make transporters aware of the problem of migrants. Not only the local police are strengthened in view of this new Roll-on/Roll-off connection. The shipping police are also making the necessary efforts to optimise the number strength. Since this is an extra-Schengen connection, the shipping police will also have to take up its role as border control officer for entering and leaving traffic. I would like to point out that there are several consultations in progress in this context. The UK authorities and the competent services have already been contacted in the context of this new connection. Several consultations have already taken place between the Belgian and British departments concerned. British colleagues from the UK Border Force will provide assistance at the border control terminal with camtech and CO2 measurement, following the example of cooperation in Zeebrugge. The Mayor of Ostend already started a task force to monitor the situation preventively and also reactively. The situation is closely monitored at local and provincial level. Regular consultation in my cabinet with all the departments involved ensures a regular systematic follow-up of the evolutions in that file. A well-functioning terminal and an integrated approach with clear commitments from all the partners involved should certainly help to minimise the problem of migrants. As I said, we will monitor this very closely and, if necessary, take the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic810x.u95	Thank you for your reply, Minister. It is quite clear that precautions are certainly being taken in terms of organisation, technology and material shielding to prevent situations from returning from the past. Of course, we cannot provide for everything. Transmigrants and smugglers are particularly creative. Nor can we see things completely apart from what we have seen again in recent months, but actually for a long time now, in Mannekensvere, Jabbeke and several places where transmigrants are found. Also in other police areas in West Flanders more and more are emerging. The problem cannot be separated from the sudden demand of one aid organisation to provide a tolerance zone. We are now in an almost empty room, but if I had asked the same question here a few hours earlier, a number of those present would certainly have been very much in favour of such a tolerance zone and providing a great deal of human help in it. They would be blind to its consequences, namely that a new Calais would be created, an area where God has no command and where the law would no longer apply. I'm grateful for your efforts. I also notice that Governor Decaluwe is very closely involved.
