ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u1	Mr President, Minister, in his general policy note, your colleague in charge of Scientific Policy states that she is preparing, with you, the continuation of aid to the Belgian industry for the development and production of Airbus aircraft. Minister, can you elaborate on this? In concrete terms, what are you preparing? Can we hope for significant progress by the end of 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Cassart, at the Council of Ministers on 20 October 2016, it was decided to provide a supplementary financial allocation of EUR 45 million for research and development projects in the aeronautics sector. The previous budget for the EUR 150 million Airbus A350 XWB programme, plus a balance of EUR 28 million from the Airbus A380 programme, has indeed been exhausted. In order to implement the government decision to provide for a supplementary budget, an amendment amending the cooperation agreement of 11 September 2008 was signed by the Federal State and the Regions on 19 December 2017. In the amended cooperation agreement, the additional financial envelope of EUR 45 million, contrary to the original cooperation agreement, is allocated to a specific Airbus programme. In principle, therefore, research and development projects can be taken into account in any Airbus programme, as long as they fall within the sphere of aircraft, helicopters or drones. The monitoring and coordination of Belgian participation in the Airbus programme is carried out by a steering committee composed of representatives of the Federal State and the Regions. A meeting of this Steering Committee took place on February 21, 2018. In addition, companies in the sector have already been informed via the sectoral organisations Flag, Ewa and Bag of the procedure for the introduction of a State aid file. Useful information has been published on the SPF Economie website. A communication on this federal aid measure was published in the Belgian Moniteur on 23 January 2018. The State aid scheme was sent to the European Commission for information on 2 February 2018. Companies may submit project proposals until 31 May 2018 inclusive. After that, the Federal Aviation Platform will make a selection and conduct an evaluation of the files submitted. The Federal Aviation Platform is a platform for collaboration between the relevant directorates of the SPF Economy and SPP Science Policy. The aim is to be able to conclude again this year a number of agreements with companies in the context of the granting of repayable advances.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u3	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for the very comprehensiveness of your answer. I see that this year there have been a lot of decisions taken. Calls for projects are due by May 31. It is true that if I wanted to be critical, I would say that for the period 2016-2018, the balance sheet is somewhat mixed. But I don't blame anyone. I know that sometimes you have to deal with administrative slowness. In any case, I welcome your answer because on 31 May it is tomorrow. There will therefore be a notice of selection. And, as you said, minister, you hope that different selections will be possible by the end of the year. I would remind you that this is an important area for research, for companies, for pilot projects. I would therefore like to thank you once again for the progress made on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u4	Minister, the majority and government have already done a great deal of work to strengthen the social protection of the self-employed. Despite the many initiatives you have already taken, several self-employed people have, in recent weeks, identified the problem that they are not always adequately protected after entering into insurance accidents at work or incapacity for work, i.e. insurance guaranteed income for self-employed persons. That was the reason for my question. For the self-employed there is no system of compulsory accident insurance, as exists for employees. There is also no specific compulsory insurance for self-employed persons for occupational diseases. Diseases and accidents in the context of their work or private life are covered by social security, but the level of compensation for self-employed persons is limited. In order to be protected against loss of income in the event of incapacity for work, self-employed persons may take out an insured income, also known as disability insurance. In order to compensate for the loss of income resulting from incapacity for work, i.e. the risk, the insurer shall pay an amount at regular intervals during a contractual period. In this way, self-employed people can protect themselves somewhat against loss of income as a result of incapacity for work. Despite this, there are still problems, such as the recognition or the percentage of incapacity for work. It happens even more often that the application is refused by the insurance company. Minister, how do you view the introduction of a right to a guaranteed income, in line with the rules on hospitalisation insurance? Health problems or conditions of the past that have been fully cured are taken into account as grounds for exclusion from insurance, as well as ordinary sports accidents and psychosocial diseases. What are your views on legislative initiatives that can eliminate such exclusion grounds? Many disability insurance schemes concluded before the recent pension reforms are still at the end of the 60-year-old age. In the past, a self-employed person could take early retirement from that age. Today, everyone has to work longer, including self-employed workers, and the 60-year pension for self-employed workers has become more of an exception. Moreover, the statutory retirement age is raised to 66 years from 2025 and to 67 years from 2030. This allows the self-employed to fall without a care network, because his insurance is limited to the contractual age of 60 years. Do you envisage a roadmap to bring the final age to at least 65 years, which seems to me to be a reasonable age in the current context, and then gradually increase by analogy with the statutory retirement age? It would be logical for the same to happen with the occupational health insurance agreement. Are you planning initiatives to review the way in which the rate is determined when, firstly, an individual disability insurance scheme is extended, secondly, an occupational health insurance contract is renewed or, thirdly, an individual disability insurance scheme follows a professional health insurance agreement? Are you planning initiatives to regulate the portability of reserves legally? In this way, a self-employed person would no longer be discouraged from changing insurance companies and competition between insurers could also be better played during the duration of the contract. Will you consult the self-employed organisations and the insurance sector on how to deal with these anomalies? Maybe that's already happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u5	Minister, I am largely in agreement with Mrs Smaers' questions and comments. The problem was raised in the Hautekiet programme on Radio 1, where we have heard a number of testimonies that raise questions. The government has already taken several steps in favour of the social protection of the self-employed, which is, of course, wonderful, but I believe that further steps can be taken in the field mentioned. Some of Mrs Smaers' comments are correct. It is one aspect that we have lost sight of in various reforms, because this policy does not immediately stand out. A self-employed person takes that policy in the hope of never having to use it, because that is not good for his business. If it turns out that the consequences of an ordinary sports accident are not covered, that is strange. I think that this should be reviewed, as should the end age of 60 years. The final age of free supplementary pension policies for self-employed persons has all been raised to 65 years in the event of an increase in retirement age. It is the logic itself that we should get things back to normal in this context too. Right around that age, the risk of medical problems is greatest. Minister, what is your approach to protecting the self-employed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u6	Colleagues Smaers and Klaps, the right to hospitalisation insurance now exists only for chronically ill and disabled people. In the event of an extension, it should be borne in mind that the risk covered by guaranteed income is completely different from that of hospitalisation insurance. In fact, the insurer may have to provide benefits in insurance for years, which is a very different financial risk. The self-employed person who is long-term unfit not only has a health problem, but is also confronted with an attack on his financial situation. Therefore, although this is less evident, it is necessary that there is an adequate insurance system that he or she may fall back on. Especially for young self-employed people, the absence of this is often a major obstacle to being able to or dare to start a self-employed activity. This also applies to most individual disability insurance, for which the end age is set at 60 years, and the question arises as to whether the extension to retirement age should be legally anchored or regulated by a code of conduct, as Assuralia does up to a certain age. Of course, apart from the self-employed, we must not forget the financial health of insurance institutions. Such measures have an impact on the prudential policies of the undertakings concerned. The same applies to the transferability of reserves, to which Mrs Smaers referred. I am less inclined to take initiatives in this area, because of the prudential consequences, but also because of the individualisation of the ageing reserves. Moreover, this would lead to an increase in premiums, which is not in favour of the self-employed consumer. Mr Smaers and Mr Klaps, like you, I am in favour of consultation. The problem has thus already been discussed with different sectors. Self-employed people must be given every opportunity and be able to cover themselves against risks, but the prudential consequences must not be overlooked. That is why I asked the Committee on Insurance to give me an opinion on the problem. At the same time, I asked the National Bank what its assessment is of the extension of the age limit in the contracts on a prudential level. So we have already asked both institutions for an opinion before you formulated your questions. Of course, I will not fail to inform you of the conclusions. If I forget, you will certainly remind me of that. Both opinions are expected as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I assumed that you had already taken action, after the questions that had arisen. Thank you for your initiative. We will follow the matter closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u8	It seems to me, Minister, that it is the right way to seek advice from the most important bodies. Adjustments can have a fundamental impact on the position of insurance companies and on the premium. We must take that concern to heart. There are already self-employed people who currently do not subscribe to the policy because of the cost. Of course, if we increase that cost, it will be a problem. On the other hand, it seems to me that, over the years, insurance companies will update their policies and improve their general conditions. I believe that they can take a few more steps in terms of income guaranteed by the policy, without jeopardising their prudential situation. I look forward to the advice you will receive. If you forget to deliver them to us, I will, of course, ask for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I do not want to talk specifically about the company DEME, but about the deep-sea mining test in general. DEME is one of the first companies to carry out such a test, but we need to look at the future, how that test will be carried out and how Belgium will act there. At present this is sponsored by Belgium in the region of Germany, which means that this operation is being looked at with great attention. According to the rules of the International Seabed Authority, which grants the concessions, an environmental impact assessment should be provided at least one year before the test. The EIA is already in the making, but no procedure is foreseen for public participation or stakeholder participation. It is also unclear whether the EIA will be accessible. The way in which Belgium handles this test as sponsoring state and the EIA will set an important precedent worldwide and will be applied in the future. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Which test will be carried out? How will Belgium, as sponsoring state, ensure that it operates in a responsible manner? How will Belgium deal with the EIA? Will this EIA be open to the public? Will a public consultation be organised? Again, this is not about DEME doing the test, but about a precedent for all possible other deep-sea mining tests that will be carried out in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, this is a dossier that was launched by my predecessor, Mr Vande Lanotte, during the previous government. I'll give you an update. As far as the Belgian position on deep-sea mining is concerned, the principle has so far been applied that we want legislation at international level that provides sufficient guarantees of environmental protection and transparency. Belgium's own environmental legislation is the reference point in this respect. We will therefore call for greater transparency and environmental expertise. In the end, it is the International Seabed Authority that decides on the conditions of exploitation. Those aren't fixed yet. The services of the FPS Economy and the FPS Environment are in constant consultation on this topic. Then I come to the tests of DEME-GSR, which you did not specifically refer to, but you asked for them in your written record. DEME-GSR will carry out a component test with a collector-scale prototype in accordance with the obligations in the contract with the International Seabed Authority. The purpose of this test is to validate on-site the data relating to the efficiency of the collector and the mitigation measures to protect the environment obtained from laboratory tests. At the same time as this test, about 50 independent scientists on a second ship will monitor the effects of this test on the environment, as part of the project GPI-Ocean 2. This will be achieved by measuring the test area in advance and recording in detail the effects on the environment during the test, one week after the test and one year after the test. The data obtained are important for the further development of the environmental regulation of the International Seabed Authority, which can currently rely only on non-validated computer models. The EIA will be evaluated by the International Seabed Authority. At present, there is no provision for a public consultation during the exploitation phase. Nevertheless, Belgium will collect comments on the EIA as sponsoring state in view of the discussions within the relevant bodies. In connection with the public debate, I think this is also interesting information for you, the federal administrations concerned will organise a workshop on deep-sea mining on 5 June 2018. It was agreed with GSR to add a presentation on this EIA to the agenda of this workshop. The comments of the public will be processed and used by the Belgian authorities concerned to prepare a document for the International Seabed Authority. The experience gained from this consultation will be used to evaluate and adjust the Belgian regulations on deep-sea mining where necessary. This very delicate dossier, which was launched during the previous legislature, is therefore being dealt with with with the necessary care and consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u11	Mr. Secretary, please give me the date. I wrote down February 5th, but I can't do that, of course. June? Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I have already asked you about MiFID Insurance. Indeed, during the previous legislature, part of the MiFID rules of conduct was extended to cover financial and non-financial insurance in order to guarantee better consumer protection. The bodies concerned were then forced to adopt new rules of conduct. This has been articulated in particular through the law of 30 July 2013 aimed at strengthening the protection of users of financial products and services as well as the powers of the Autorité des services et marchés financiers (FSMA) and bearing various provisions, more commonly known as Twin Peaks Il. Minister, four years after Twin Peaks came into force, what do the insurance industry and consumers think about the application of the MiFID rules of conduct? What about the administrative burden? Do you have consultations with the sector to assess the implementation of these new rules of conduct? If so, what is the status of these? Are there any adjustments to be made? If so, which ones? I thank you, Minister, for taking stock of this much-awaited issue in the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u13	Mr President, Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the legal and regulatory framework for the distribution of insurance products has undergone important changes. The Belgian legislator has thus decided to apply to insurance undertakings and insurance intermediaries rules of conduct resulting from the MiFID rules applicable to the banking sector. The MiFID Insurance Regulation has been in force since 1 May 2015. It aims to ensure better protection of customers in the insurance sector by extending the application of the rules of conduct to savings and investment products comparable to financial instruments. It also extends certain rules of conduct to non-life products, in particular rules to prevent conflicts of interest and to ensure that third-party fees do not prejudice the interests of the customer. I am in regular contact with representatives of the insurance sector, particularly in the context of the transposition of Directive 2016/97 of the Parliament and of the Council of 20 January 2016 on the distribution of insurance (the so-called IDD Directive). At my request, a public consultation on the draft transposition texts was organised. Reactions to the consultation were taken into account in finalizing the texts. The Insurance Commission also delivered an opinion on the draft text. The draft transposition of the IDD Directive has, in the meantime, been approved by the Council of Ministers on 20 April and has been forwarded to the Council of State for its opinion. The project is an expression of a balanced compromise which limits to the maximum the administrative obligations of intermediaries but still offers sufficient guarantees for consumer protection. The project also guarantees a level playing field at the level of distribution among all concerned, regardless of the sales channel (direct, writing). Normally, the bill will still be tabled in the House of Representatives before the 2018 parliamentary holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensiveness of your answer. I have two thoughts. First of all, during the hearings we had with regard to Mr Klaps's bill on insurance, I was questioned by the various messages concerning the administrative overload. Sometimes locking, which is not the objective and complete role of consumer protection, causes an administrative overload. Secondly, I am also in contact with the sector which has sent me the same message: consumer protection, of course, I would like to join you, Mr Minister, but let us pay attention to the administrative burden! I look forward to seeing this dossier end up in Parliament before or after the holidays. This case is progressing; it is on the Council of State for the time being. I would like to see a balance between the protection of the consumer that I fully defend – you are absolutely right, and I think that there is no parliamentarian here who will not agree with consumer protection – and the administrative overload that also matters to me. When we have contact in the insurance sector – I put the banking sector aside because there is a different financial stake – there is confidence between the person who buys the insurance and the consumer. Sometimes the consumer signs the documents that are submitted to him without knowing the details. Therefore, we really need to pay attention to this administrative overload and to have a compromise between it and consumer protection. We'll talk about it in a fairly short time. Thank you for the work that has already been done.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u15	Only Mrs Gantois is present to ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u16	Mr President, Minister, anyone who goes shopping in a Belgian supermarket pays an average of 13.4% more than in Germany, 12.9% more than in the Netherlands and 9.1 % more than in France. Differences in price levels are increasing compared to a survey carried out five years ago. This is demonstrated by a price observatory study, which analysed the price level of 64 000 identical branded products from different countries. The cause would be higher taxes and the fact that a small country like ours can benefit less from economies of scale and thus from lower purchasing prices, and has more operational costs. The positioning of our supermarkets itself also facilitates higher prices. Market leader Colruyt, for example, is a price tracker, but will not take initiatives to lower prices. And no large, national supermarket chain is betting on a low price for branded products. However, this is the case for fresh fruit and vegetables, which are not included in this analysis. According to Eurostat figures, they are on average cheaper with us than in neighbouring countries. Minister, you said that you would like to invite the main supermarket chains in our country to discuss price differences with our neighbouring countries and to press for a reduction in prices. My question dates back to March 14. I do not know whether you already have a plan and whether an initiative has already been taken. How will you achieve your intention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gantois, on 15 March, in reply to a question by Mr Smaers in plenary, I gave a number of elements. Indeed, the 2017 Annual Report of the Price Observatory shows that prices for identical A-brand products were higher in Belgium than in neighbouring countries. Prices for identical products, especially of the A-brands, were 13% higher in Belgium than in Germany, 13% higher than in the Netherlands and 9% higher than in France. The price difference appears to have increased compared to the last study in 2013. An important preliminary remark is that the price comparison did not take account of fresh products and only limited account was taken of house brands. The price observatory sees in particular the following factors as the cause of price differences with the main neighbouring countries. Let me sum them up. A first factor is the less favourable purchase prices and conditions, partly because of the relatively small size of our country. Territorial supply restrictions, which hinder a trader from taking goods in a country of his choice, would also lead to differences in wholesale prices between countries. A second factor is VAT and other taxes, e.g. the higher level of excise duty on spirits in Belgium. A third factor is higher wage costs in Belgium, but they are offset by higher productivity per employee. Labour costs have evolved favourably in recent years thanks to the combination of the index jump, the moderate wage agreements, the new 1996 law and, of course, the tax shift. A fourth factor is the business strategy. In Belgium, one of the most important and efficient distribution chains is a price tracker, which means that the strategy of a number of other players is to distinguish themselves by service and quality rather than lower prices. Due to Delhaize's merger with Ahold, a major change took place recently in the Belgian retail market. This could lead to economies of scale, which could lead to increased purchasing power and better purchasing conditions, which in turn could lead to lower prices for consumers. Although operational profitability in the Belgian food retail sector has been declining since 2012, the margin is on average higher than in France and Germany, but lower than in the Netherlands. A final element that the observatory itself cites for clarity is regulation: OECD figures show that the retail sector in Belgium is more regulated than in neighbouring countries. In order to stimulate competition in the distribution sector and therefore to reduce prices for consumers, I myself took the following actions. Firstly, territorial supply restrictions and the small size of our country mean that our supermarkets can negotiate less good purchase prices. At Benelux level, a study was carried out on territorial supply restrictions and I handed over the conclusions of that study to the European Commission asking for the necessary measures to be taken in this area. Territorial supply restrictions are a cross-border problem that should preferably be addressed at European level. The second action I have taken is the following. In 2012, the Belgian Competition Authority made a study on the market functioning of the regulation applicable to the distribution sector. Following the report of the Prize Observatory, I asked the Belgian Competition Authority to update its 2012 investigation into the market functioning of that sector and to make concrete recommendations before 1 July this year. On the basis of these recommendations, it can be considered whether adjustments to the rules should be made. That is the second action I have taken. I come to the third action you explicitly asked for. I have invited the largest department stores within the distribution sector to discuss the determinations of the Price Observatory and to consider together what measures can be taken to eliminate price differences with neighbouring countries. During the consultation with the representatives of the department store chains on 16 April, the Prize Observatory explained its findings. It was agreed to examine whether the methodology of the Price Observatory could be further refined, including as regards the inclusion of house brands and fresh products in the price comparison. I also asked the department store chains to submit concrete proposals to me to strengthen competition. It also seems interesting to me to develop, on the basis of all input, a more general vision of the future of our distribution sector, both in terms of competitiveness and labour regulation, not to mention the discussion of job losses in certain companies. I also answer Mrs Detiège's question, although she is not here. With regard to the so-called single-servings, I can say that it was not foreseen that this would be included in the debate on food prices, as this is not mentioned in the annual report of the Prize Observatory. I did, however, mention this briefly. I understand that smaller packages can be more interesting to prevent food waste. However, this may also mean that there will be more waste when smaller portions are packed separately, which of course has a negative impact on our environment. From an economic point of view, it is also logical that food or beverage products packed in smaller portions are relatively more expensive than larger portions, as the fixed costs associated with the product are often the same. Of course, I do not think it would be desirable to generate additional profits at the expense of single people, who often have a smaller budget. I believe that we all agree on that. Mrs Jadin, who is not present either, had tabled a specific question on the loss of VAT revenue. It is up to my colleague, the Minister for Finance, to give further text and explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u19	I think, Minister, that we must indeed await the answers and results of your investigations and questions to the sector and to the Competition Authority. However, I believe that we should keep an eye on this, because it is also about protecting our own trade. Sooner or later I will certainly feedback and ask questions about the answers to asked questions and the results of investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u20	Mr Minister, my question dates back to the period of meat fraud at Veviba. Following the meat fraud at Veviba, the Farmers' Union and other agricultural organisations within the Agrofront have developed a package of measures to support cattle farms. The Agrofront wants initiatives to be taken by the public authorities and the industry to restore consumer and producer confidence. According to the Agrofront, structural measures are needed in slaughterhouses and meat processing plants in order to increase transparency and close the loopholes in the network. In view of the importance of proper weighing of slaughter cattle and carcasses in the slaughter line, they call for additional measures by the FPS Economy. The verification of calibration of weighing machines in slaughterhouses shall be carried out by the FPS Economy. The FPS Economy ensures that the measurements are carried out correctly. Following the package of measures proposed by the Agrofront, I have a number of questions, Minister. The Agrofront proposes to increase the frequency of calibration of weighing machines. Taking into account the economic value of livestock for slaughter, a small deviation in the measurement accuracy may be the cause of economic damage. What do you think of this proposal? Will you take additional initiatives? The increase in controls will take more time for inspection. The Agrofront proposes that the monitoring of the operation of measuring instruments be entrusted to a third independent certified control body. What is your view on this? Is it a good measure to spend it on an independent body? I have a question for figures, but that answer may also be in writing. Do you have an overview of the number of checks on the calibration of weighing machines in slaughterhouses over the last five years? How many infringements have been detected in the last five years?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u21	Minister, I will ask only one of my two questions, since their content is identical, even if they concern Verbist and Veviba, on the one hand, and Euro Meat Group, on the other. The investigations carried out and the meetings of joint committees have shown us that, in addition to the difficulties present at the AFSCA, we are faced with economic actors, some of whom are increasingly monopolistic in the sector, as well as with companies structured in parent companies and subsidiaries, in Belgium and abroad. These structures and the links between the units of these enterprises allow them to use, legally or in a way posing a question, forms of contracts with displaced, made available, interim staff, etc. Mr Minister, I have also asked you in the Committee on Social Affairs about everything that concerns the Social Inspectorate, but my question today is about the structure of these companies and their contractual relations, so as to check whether they comply with social legislation. So how are the links between Verbist and Veviba organised? How are Euro Meat Group entities structured? What is the nature of the relationship between the parent companies and their subsidiaries – and between them as such – in Belgium and abroad? Do interim companies work in these constellations of companies? Is there any in the countries that send posted workers to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u22	Minister, my two questions relate to the same objects and overlap with the interventions of my two colleagues. The oldest was introduced in March. We have met three times on this subject with the Committee on Public Health. Then, Minister, you also answered questions in the Social Affairs Committee. Here we are dealing more with the economic aspect. An older question concerned the Verbist group. This group was in the spotlight at the time and we realized that it concentrated 30% of the slaughters in Belgium, that it had a turnover of 200 million euros, that it was one of the largest slaughterhouses in Wallonia, with nearly 300 workers and 3,000 Walloon breeders working directly with it. We have therefore realized the economic concentration which is part of the problem referred to here. Secondly, we also found that many breeders complained that there was a lot of opacity in this sector of transformation, that opacity was really something that often came back, both in the field returns (representative breeders and organisations). Many also complained about the carcass yield, notably mentioned in this debate, which is nothing more than an organized theft from producers. Minister, on this point, my questions are similar to those of my colleagues. What is the structure of the company? Has the competition authority intervened over time in relation to these mergers? Were there any signals given at this level or not? Have there been notifications of concentration, complaints of unfair competition? If so, how were they treated? Have any economic offences been found by the SPF Economy? That was my first question. The second is in agreement with what has been said, notably by Mrs Dierick, on the Agrofront, which really wants to see confidence restored between producers and processors. This whole scandal, this whole affair, has really brought to light this lack of confidence. This is a series of bad practices, perhaps not widespread, but which have in any case been clearly debated. The producers' union claims that measures should be taken to ensure that carcasses are weighed correctly in slaughterhouses and that there are more controls, unannounced controls, so that we can really make sure that things are done properly. It is really transparency that needs to be organised, also in the distribution of margins within the various links in the chain. A study of the SPF Economy to be finalised on these famous margins in the beef and veal sector was discussed. For Febev, this study would be a crucial basis for accelerating the debate on an honest price for honest food. What initiatives have you taken or are you taking? How can we restore confidence between farmers and processors? How do you react to economic fraud in the processing sector? Do you intend to increase the controls? Do you plan actions to better control weighing systems? Have you observed a decrease in meat consumption, a decrease in exports, or an impact on prices? When will the study be published? Minister, two months later, perhaps this is an opportunity to take stock of the measures taken or that you intend to take to restore confidence in this sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u23	There have been a lot of questions asked, which I hope I can all answer. In general, it goes without saying that I, along with you, deeply regret the scandal. It's been behind us for a while, but it was a pity. I expect the parties concerned to take appropriate action to restore confidence in the system. I can tell you that my services regularly question their working methods, respond to concerns of their stakeholders and take measures to improve their work. The issue in question is also included in these exercises. Several questions have been asked about the accuracy of the measuring instruments. The agro-industry has shown some time ago that it has little confidence in the weighing of carcasses by slaughterhouses. In 2015, 2016 and 2017, targeted control campaigns in slaughterhouses were therefore organised by the metrological service. A total of 859 checks of weighing instruments in slaughterhouses and cutting plants rejected 19 instruments due to excessive measurement errors or serious technical defects. A warning was issued for 69 weighing instruments due to minor technical defects, late re-reading or unreadable or missing conformity marks. The number of checks will be increased. These control campaigns are independent of the statutory four-yearly review of the weighing instruments, both for automatic and non-automatic weighing instruments. My administration is examining whether it is desirable to shorten that period to two years. I would point out that the review in slaughterhouses is no longer carried out by the FPS Economy, but by accredited private inspection bodies. The verification requested by an independent third party thus already exists. As for the economic violation by Veviba, the weighing instruments at Veviba are generally in order. In the framework of the powers of the FPS Economy, 15 weighing instruments were checked at Veviba in 2017, one of which was not in order. The measurement error was outside the permitted tolerances. The error was due to normal drift and not manipulation or fraud. Of course, the plane was rejected. For details of the structure of Veviba, the Verbist Group and Euro Meat Group, I refer you to the Public Search Public Research function on the ECB's website. On this website, all information on establishment units, administrators, links to annual accounts and publications in the Belgian Monitor is available for everyone. I can also confirm that there are foreign companies that second employees to Belgian operating offices of Verbist and Veviba companies. For now, I can't give you any more details as they are part of the secrecy of the investigation. A judicial investigation is under way, of which we have not yet obtained the results. I have not received any further information on this, given the secret of the investigation. Furthermore, I am not aware of any investigation by the Belgian Competition Authority. Moreover, her investigations are strictly confidential in order to fully monitor their effectiveness. The acquisition of the establishment Adriaens nv by Verbist Wallonie nv was approved by the auditorate on 13 February 2017 after a simple procedure. As far as the impact on sales, exports and prices is concerned, my services do not have official statistics on sales of meat products that show weekly or even monthly trends. However, there is a structural trend towards declining meat consumption. The amount of meat consumed at home has fallen from 18 kilos per person in 2016 to 17,5 kilos in 2017. Specifically for beef, this is 4,9 kilos in 2016 to 4,4 kilos in 2017. VLAM's latest figures confirm that trend. It is possible that the Vevibas scandal will slightly strengthen the trend. As far as the evolution of exports is concerned, I cannot give you any figures yet. The monthly statistics on external trade are only available after three months. Consumer price observations at the commercial locations of some retailers show that the prices of the main beef cuts remained stable between 6 and 20 March. The prices paid to farmers have also remained very stable so far. As regards the margins in the beef and veal chain, the study on the difference between the price paid by the consumer and the price paid to the producer, which affects prices, costs and margins in the sector, will be presented in the coming weeks to the consultation of the agri-food sector and in the presence of all the links in the chain. The study will be presented in the course of the following weeks during consultation with the agro-food industry, in the presence of all the links in the chain. I will also forward this study to the committee secretariat so that all Members can have access to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanation. I am glad that you have underlined once again that it is important that measures are taken to restore confidence. The figures you gave show that the mistrust of the Agrofront regarding the correct weighting of cattle was certainly not unfounded. I am pleased that they are being asked to have the weighings and measurements carried out by an external auditor. I am also pleased because you have said that the controls will be increased.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u25	Mr Minister, I know that we can find elements on the ECB's website, but I expected answers that would show me that you had wondered about the links between the different structures of these groups, which are not only monopolistic, but also use structures established abroad with particular statutes. If there is no evidence to show, for example, that a company creates a company abroad whose sole purpose is to allow workers to move or make available, this is a weakness in the context of research into whether or not the social inspection is being carried out, the payment of social contributions and the treatment of workers. You told me that there were many companies abroad that detached to Verbist, but are these companies part of the group or are they businesses unrelated to Verbist? You also said that you could not give me some information because of the ongoing judicial investigation. Does this judicial investigation concern interim companies or companies linked to workers posted to Belgian company units?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u26	Mr Minister, thank you for your answer, which includes a number of figures, and I will certainly read it carefully. Having said that, I feel that elements still need to be dug or searched for. Of course, we will follow the ongoing judicial case and we will see what emerges from it. In any case, we need to be more vigilant. You mentioned an increase in controls. I do not know whether the livestock sector is fully reassured by this type of response. In any event, the will must be to ensure transparency. This applies to questions of secondment, temporary work, transparency in contracts, respect for labour law, etc. Finally, we look forward to this study, which we will examine with the utmost attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u27	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smaers' 24732 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Crusnière's 4798 and 25438 were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u28	Mr President, Minister, you often say that I will come back with a follow-up question if I do not get the information. Well, here I am. I have already mentioned the legal uncertainty that still exists with regard to all kinds of propulsion equipment, the so-called speed pedals. This legal uncertainty can have major consequences in the event of accidents. There is also uncertainty about that meanwhile infamous garage button. We have discussed this on several occasions. Apparently there is also confusion about the concepts of step, step and start-up support. This confusion can really cause serious problems, because it is the correct definitions that determine what kind of insurance is needed. A traffic participant who is not properly insured can take the fall. There is therefore a real need for clear communication in order to avoid lengthy legal procedures in the event of an accident. After all, there are more and more such bicycles and related people on the track and unfortunately accidents are also happening. You said in the past that you would have the necessary clarification by the end of 2017. As far as I know, that deadline has passed, even in a few months. So my question is clear and clear. What's the deal now?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u29	Mr President, Mr Klaps, I will also reply clearly and clearly. This week, on Thursday, there will be an inter-kabinets working group on the royal decree governing the compulsory insurance of electric bicycles, with the intention of bringing the dossier to the Council of Ministers for one of the coming weeks. I am convinced that this royal decision will provide the necessary clarity. I am therefore addressing this problem with the necessary dash, with the support of many and with your support in particular. After all, I fully understand that this lack of clarity and legal uncertainty must be eliminated as soon as possible. There has been hard work on this royal decision to bring it into line with European and other regulations. The end is in sight, in a positive way, for Thursday there will be an IKW.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u30	Mr President, Minister, I look forward to those texts. I understand that you have not yet been able to go into the details, since the discussions are still in a final stage. We will soon know more about this. I am glad that a solution is in sight so that people who have a speed pedelec accident do not become their personal Waterloo.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u31	Mr President, Minister, customers often take out hospitalisation insurance through their insurance broker, at least if they go through an insurance company and not through a sickness fund. In case of a withdrawal, the customer sends the invoice, whether through the broker or not, to the insurance company, which regulates the invoice, pays the fee and sends the broker a confirmation of the deposit of a certain amount and of the handling of the file, without, of course, giving medical details. That's the only way a realtor can stay informed about a file. It is important for the intermediary to be able to show its added value in the follow-up of claims files. That's why he needs this information to know if a file is stuck or settled. I get several signals that certain insurers, whose insurer is DKV with the largest market share, no longer send this confirmation to the brokers. My question is therefore whether this is a new system, in which insurance brokers are no longer informed about the status of a file. Does that apply to all insurance companies? If so, does this happen on the basis of a regulation, a certain logic or certain agreements in the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u32	Mr President, Mr Klaps, in the context of supplementary health insurance, the client may choose to report his damage directly to the insurance undertakings concerned or to have his insurance intermediary do so. The added value of an intermediary's intervention is that it can assist clients, especially those who have less insight into the financial aspect, in checking whether the insurance undertaking has paid proper compensation, in accordance with the insurance contract. Following your question, my cabinet had contact with the Federation for Insurance and Financial Intermediaries, the FVF, the professional association of the Dutch-speaking insurance brokers. Indeed, the FVF confirmed that many insurance brokers complain about the fact that a particular insurance company no longer provides information on the settlement of claims, making it more difficult for them to provide their clients with assistance. In doing so, this insurance company would declare that it is no longer able to provide the information for privacy reasons. According to Article 9 of the GDPR Regulation, the processing of health data is in principle prohibited. However, the prohibition does not apply where the data subject has given his explicit consent to the processing of his personal data for one or more specific purposes. My cabinet also contacted Assuralia, to know the position of the insurers. The organization provided me with the following information. When dealing with claims files in hospitalisation insurance, the insurer always sends a final statement to the insured person. This final statement contains medical records. The medical data is sensitive personal data. The insurer is therefore not allowed to deliver them to third parties. The final account or a copy thereof may therefore be transferred to the insurance broker. Only the patient/insured person can decide on this. If an insurance broker wishes to receive the final statement of the medical information, he must contact his client, being the insured patient. Only the insured patient can decide whether to provide or disclose his medical information to his insurance broker. The insurance broker or brokers are normally aware of the privacy legislation, in particular the rules governing the transmission of sensitive medical data. The other information relating to the claims file shall be exchanged between insurer and broker in the manner and according to the modalities applicable between the insurer and the insurance intermediary concerned. Some insurers do this digitally, sometimes via a specific portal. I can tell you that certain Member States have developed specific arrangements for data processing in the context of the management of insurance contracts and the role of intermediaries. For example, Dutch legislation already explicitly states that the prohibition to process health data does not apply if the processing is carried out by insurers or financial service providers that intercede in insurance, in so far as the processing is necessary for the execution of the insurance contract or for assisting in the management and execution of the insurance. Such a specific exception is currently not included in the Belgian privacy legislation. As you know, privacy legislation belongs to the powers of the Secretary of State for Combating Social Fraud, Privacy and the North Sea, Philippe De Backer. As a result of your question, I sent him a letter asking for his opinion on the introduction of a specific regulation in the privacy legislation regarding data processing in the context of the management of insurance contracts, including the role of the intermediary. However, I was not allowed to receive an answer to this question. If you are interested, I can give you the letter through the secretariat. I'm looking forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u33	So, Minister, it seems that the problem is real. The GDPR regulation is indeed the responsibility of Secretary of State De Backer, but I fear that we will still have a number of such questions from different sectors. It is absolutely useful that the intermediaries continue to receive the information, but your answer raises a number of questions, which I will, however, ask Secretary of State De Backer. However, if an insurance company changes its way of working, it might need to better inform intermediaries and also provide a means of solution. For example, if the client has to sign a form in order to continue to receive the information, such a form should also be provided. In this way, everyone is prevented from brimming documents. The consent should be given explicitly, but it would be best to standardise how that should be done. I'll ask my questions to Secretary of State De Backer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u34	Minister, the report on the pricing of agricultural and horticultural products of the Pano programme of Wednesday 11 April, which was already more than a month ago, has caused some fuss. The auctions have an important role to play in the story of the marketing of agricultural and horticultural products. Those producer organisations are intended to strengthen the position of producers in a market that is increasingly globalising. This is a noble aim, but at the same time we hear from the sector that the concrete arrangements are so strict that producers are given too little room for manoeuvre to look for outlets that can provide them with higher added value. In this respect, the demand for the development of the short supply chain is legitimate. This is encouraged everywhere, but producers often encounter obstacles to participating in it through their membership of a producer organisation, which obliges them to deliver everything to them. Some auctions allow their members the possibility of trading up to a quarter of their production through self-marketing, but this requires the explicit consent of the auction. I am told that Members who are considering such an application are often strongly discouraged from doing so. In the reportage of Pano it was even suggested that farmers are explicitly advised not to deliver to the auction. Some even claim to get more controls if they refuse to deliver. However, last year, European Agriculture Commissioner Phil Hogan announced a number of simplifications to the CMO Fruit and Vegetables. One of these relaxations was intended to remove from many non-members an objection to producer organisations by setting the maximum percentage of production that may be marketed outside the organisation at 25% for producer organisations across the EU. In addition, auctions do not always appear to show understanding when the price of the producers is lower than the cost price. While producers are insisting on delaying the delivery of their products, they could be forced by auctions because they stick to the contractual delivery date. The Pano programme also showed that producers have a perception that the European funds allocated to producer organisations do not go to producers for 100%. Some claim that more than half of the funds go to personnel costs and even investment in buildings, including castles. There is even a waste of money through auctions to expensive leasing cars or private holidays under the guise of study trips. From the auction itself, Peter Appletans contradicted that kind of claim and called it café talk. All the resources would certainly benefit farmers. In particular, it remains very difficult for consumers to understand why farmers receive such low prices, whereas the price in shops is often higher than in our neighbouring countries. The issue is raised at the chain talks. There too, however, they often point in each other's direction and continue to try to identify those with which profit margins, often stinging in good intentions. Europe is working on a reform of the common agricultural policy after 2020. Now that it is clear from the Brexit that the multiannual budget needs to be reduced, it is more important than ever that all European agricultural subsidies are used to the full to strengthen the producer's position. Minister, what impression has Pano's report on the price of food for the producer left to you? Do you have any indications that the accusations against the auctions as if they were spending European subsidies on personnel costs, building purchases and even immoral expenditures such as expensive leasing cars or private trips are in the guise of missions? Will that be investigated? Is the FPS Economy also monitoring a fully transparent use of the funds through the auctions? Is there a need for a change of direction here? Will you have an examination of what proportion of the profit margin of food trade produced in Belgium will each actor receive from the food chain? Will you urge the producer organisations to relax and adapt their regulations to the new commercial reality of encouraging products to look for more value-added outlets? The crucial requirement of many farmers in relation to the auctions is that they would not sell products below cost. Under what conditions do you consider this desirable and feasible?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u35	Minister, in the reportage magazine Pano of 10 April, testimonies were presented by both ex-workers from auction houses and farmers themselves on how European subsidies would often be used illegally by auctions. These subsidies are intended to cover the low income of farmers, but they would also be used for the payment of staff and for private purposes. For example, private travel would be registered as study trips and expensive cars would be purchased. In a given auction, this would mean that farmers would not receive around EUR 150 000 to EUR 200 000 on an annual basis, while four farmers out of ten have an income below the poverty line. However, the auction was set up by agricultural cooperatives with the aim of obtaining a correct price for fruit and vegetables. Unfortunately, an auction even allows buyers to go below the production price. Our law does not provide for the protection of our farmers against loss of sales, so neither does the auction. Nor does the law allow price margins to be discussed in the chain consultation. Minister, how many television reports will be needed before we take action to ensure fair trade prices for farmers? They continue to work year after year below cost, with all the financial and emotional consequences. Nowhere else is the gap between what the producer gets and what the consumer pays. Nowhere does a sector get so little protection to act against it. Minister, have any malpractices been reported or identified by your services? If so, are there any consequences? To what extent is there transparency about the use of European subsidies by auction houses? Will steps be taken to make money flows more transparent? What will you do to ensure fairer commercial practices for farmers, and in what time?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u36	Mr Lijnen and Mr Gantois, the Panoreportage underline the importance of balanced prices in all the links in the chain. If one link is vulnerable, it's detrimental to the whole chain. The auctions can be considered as producer organisations within the meaning of Regulation (EC) No 2017/891 of the European Commission. In this capacity, they may receive European support from the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund. The aid is granted and managed by the Regions. Like any European aid, it is subject to specific conditions for granting it and compliance with it is also subject to strict control through audits. I can tell you that the Economic Inspectorate has not yet received any reports of malpractice in this area. Monitoring the use of the grants by the auctions is a regional competence. The FPS Economy realizes studies on the profitability of the various links of the chain. These studies are carried out by chain and not by sector as a whole. They were carried out on demand and in support of the chain consultation. Efforts are being made to estimate the margins and to dissect the consumer price of the various food products. The studies carried out so far concern milk, beef and pigmeat. The studies are regularly updated. If the sector is asking for this, I am, of course, prepared to have my administration carry out additional studies. Finally, as Minister for Economic Affairs, I support all the initiatives being taken to develop the so-called short chain. After all, I am convinced that short-chain sales can be an important complement to farmers' incomes. I am therefore prepared to organise consultations with the auctions, if the sector is asking for them. Finally, at the European Agriculture Council of 16 April 2018, the European Commission presented a proposal for a directive to the Member States on unfair commercial practices in the business-to-business relationship in food supply chains. This could be a first step towards improving relations in the chain. I will follow up the discussion on this directive. Once the directive has been published, I will quickly work on its transposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is striking that there are no reports of malpractice. There was a whole reportage about it. A number of conclusions can be drawn from this. It could be said that the claims have been taken by the hair and that the castles and expensive lease cars are paid by other means. It could also be said that there is no courage to complain. In that case, that is very bad. I believe that it is the responsibility of the political world to do something about it. Secondly, I do not know whether we need more studies. I think we need more action. I have also heard your answer in relation to the short chain. You're reaching out to the sector itself. If he is a requesting party, you are willing to organise consultations with the auctions. In this respect, too, I make the link to my very first remark. The question is, of course, whether the sector dares to start these conversations. In this respect, I believe that a proactive action from your cabinet to the sector is advisable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u38	Mr President-in-Office, I would like to add my voice to what Mrs Lijnen has just said. She finds it strange that no complaints are made after the reportage reveals a few things. We must remain indignant. Only then can a solution be found. You're referring to the short chain. I very much support that short chain, but agriculture is an en-en-story. Those who cannot or do not want to enter that short chain are also entitled to a viable income. The consumer does not seem reluctant either that he or she should pay 10 cents more. Cooperatives must support their members. The bigger a cooperative gets, the less the farmer gets. I refer to my last question concerning fair commercial practices. European Commissioner Phil Hogan has finally proposed his draft directive. My bill has been on the table for three years. I'll reach out to you again. Not only Europe but also its own federal government must finally come to terms and ensure that the directive is transposed into national law. Get on with this! You will find a partner in us for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u39	Mr President, Minister, the adaptation of the rules for solar banks has been on your agenda for some time. In November 2017, you announced that the adjustment would take place from 2019. Solar banks should then have skin measurement equipment to determine the skin type of the user. If such a device is not available, the user should have his or her skin type determined and certified by a doctor. In February, we heard that Febelsol, the umbrella organisation for solar banks, is going to the Council of State to challenge this new measure. You would change the regulations if necessary. Mr Minister, do you have an idea of the timetable within which a statement by the Council of State can be expected? What alternatives are you considering to improve consumer protection if the regulations on skin measuring equipment and the doctor's attestation need to be removed? Do you still consider the entry into force in 2019 feasible?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Janssen, I have already done a great deal in relation to solar banks. The current state of affairs is the following. First, in the meantime, the Council of State has ruled on the request for the suspension of the Royal Decree of 24 September 2017 laying down new conditions for solar centres. In its judgment of 27 April, the Council decided that there were no grounds. At the same time, a petition for the annulment of the decision was made, but I cannot tell you when a ruling from the Council of State can be expected. In any case, the suspension has already been rejected by the Council. Secondly, the decision itself already contains a possible alternative. Solar centres may still determine the skin type together with the consumer if they purchase a skin sensitivity determination device and if the consumer has the sensitivity of his skin measured for each sunshine at that time, i.e. before the sunbed is activated. This was agreed with the sector. Because of this alternative, the introduction is planned in 2019. The sector has asked whether the doctor's certificate can be replaced by such a device, to which I have agreed, provided that the device is present in the solarium centre. The sector thought it would have to go to the Council of State, although I therefore met the demand to provide an alternative to the doctor's certificate. The deletion of the doctor's certificate is not yet under discussion and I await the decision of the Council of State. An alternative has already been taken. As you know, some provisions of the decision on the advertising and warning message entered into force on 1 December 2017. As provided for in the Decision, the other provisions shall apply from 1 January 2019. This is still the timing. I told you that we proposed 2019 to enable the purchase of this device. I think that is a reasonable approach. We await the decision of the Council of State on the substance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u41	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your very clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u42	Mr President, Minister, over the last few weeks there has been a lot to do in the Netherlands about the information that second-hand car sellers provide to their buyers. After all, a study by the Dutch Authority for Consumer and Market found that a lot of sellers are not in order. For example, prices which do not correspond to the sum to be paid are not stated, the non-avoidable costs such as a necessary repair or inspection are not mentioned or costs are charged for the statutory guarantee. The problem is mainly on the online platforms where motor vehicles are traded. The Dutch Authority for Consumer and Market has provided second-hand car sellers with a number of recommendations to be implemented by mid-May. The regulation is, of course, largely determined at European level. Think of the display of prices to the consumer. My questions are as follows, Minister. Are targeted checks carried out in our country on the information obligations of second-hand car sellers? If so, are there similar problems to those raised in the Dutch authorities' investigation? Do you have figures on the number of infringements and the type of infringement? Do you think that similar recommendations on the European legislation to be followed can prove useful in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u43	Mr President, Mr Janssen, in addition to individual investigations relating to notifications, the Economic Inspectorate also conducts targeted general investigations on its own initiative. During a certain period, surveys are carried out on a particular subject or sector throughout the country. For example, an extensive general investigation was carried out in 2014 in the second-hand vehicles sector, whereby 781 sellers were checked for, inter alia, the price indication, the guarantee and the registration with the KBO. For these three subjects, the infringement rate was 3.7 %, 18 % and 4.1 % respectively. The research focused not specifically on the online ads, but also on regular job sellers and car buyers. More recently, from October 2017 to the end of February 2018, a general investigation was carried out, which referred to the guarantee information obligation. One of the target groups was the second-hand vehicle sector. The results of the study have not yet been fully processed, so I am unfortunately unable to provide any figures on this. However, I can provide you with a table containing some information on the Economic Inspectorate's investigations into second-hand car sellers, without the warranty investigation. A total of 1 251 investigations have been launched over the last five years. Both warranty and price indication can be found in the top five infringements. I'll get you the table right away. The Economic Inspectorate is already issuing guidelines on the basis of Article XV.7 of the Code of Economic Law. These are documents which contain points of interest and guidelines for businesses as well as information on how the legislation should be interpreted. Guides for various sectors can be found on the website of the FPS Economy. The following directives are available for the car sector. Firstly, recommendations on announcements of price reductions in the car sector. Secondly, advertising consumer credit in the automotive sector. Thirdly, the rental of vehicles to the consumer. Fourthly, sales and placement of tyres.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u44	Minister, the figures you are quoting indicate that regular checks are being carried out. One cannot, of course, carry out checks at any time. Nevertheless, I note a number of infringements for which we must pay attention. After all, buying a car, even if it is a used car, is for many people a bite from the budget, taking into account also the petrol costs, insurance costs and so on. We must therefore continue to monitor this closely. What we certainly do not want is for people to feel put in their pocket by certain car dealers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u45	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Friart's 25039 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 25072 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u46	Minister, persons wishing to pursue the activity of debt recovery in Belgium must be registered with the FPS Economy in advance. They should also refrain from a number of prohibited practices, such as the prohibition of harassing the debtor if the debtor has expressly and motivated him to challenge the debt. Before 6 July 2017, as a creditor or debtor acting on his behalf, it was not easy to determine whether a legacy was rejected. This is the case with the creation of the Central Heritage Register. I would therefore like to hear from you what you mean by best practices in respect of a registered debtor when they are required to recover debts from a deceased person. First of all, does he have to check beforehand in the Belgian Official Journal or through the Central Heritage Register or the estate was rejected? Secondly, if not, should a repeated warning be regarded as assaulting a person, after he has returned a copy of the instrument of rejection of the estate or of its notification to the Belgian Official Journal after the first letter of writing? Thirdly, if an heir who has rejected the estate wishes to lodge a complaint through contact point.belgie.be, what should he fill in in response to the question to which the letter of formal notice refers and why he does not agree to the letter of formal notice? In that case, could the question not be better answered so that it can be more clearly stated that it is a rejected estate? Minister, you can conclude from the question that it originated from a specific case. I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u47	Mr President, Mr Klaps, first of all, the law of 20 December 2002 does not contain an explicit obligation for an recoverer to verify whether a legacy was rejected. However, the law prohibits recovery from a person who is not a debtor. Someone who rejected the inheritance is not a debtor. In that sense, the professional devotion of a recoverer requires prior checking of the Central Register of Inheritances if there is evidence that the debts of a deceased person are involved. Moreover, the consultation of this register is free of charge. Secondly, if the consumer who is recovered indicates that the debt is within a legacy he has rejected, further contact with him will be considered as a ringing. I'll take the third and fourth questions together. In the case of a notification via the contact point of the FPS Economy, the person concerned can simply indicate that it is a debt of a deceased person and that he does not agree with the notice because he has rejected the inheritance. I hope you can help your client with these answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u48	Mr President, Minister, I left clients behind when I took the oath here. There are still full-time politicians. According to some colleagues, there are too many, but that is another matter. The answers are very clear. Indeed, it is a form of bullying and harassment when people are constantly harassed with the same question, when they have clearly shown that they are not responsible for those debts. I am therefore very pleased with your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u49	Question No Mrs Detiège's 25147 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u50	Mr President, Minister, the chain consultation is a structural consultative body between the links of the agri-food chain in our country. The purpose of this consultation was therefore to resolve problems at an interprofessional level. A code of conduct was drawn up and endorsed in support of fair relationships between suppliers and buyers. This code should provide a transparent solution to likely unfair commercial practices, at least as can be seen on the website of the chain consultation. However, you replied to a previous question that neither figures nor substantive information are available on the disputes within the chain consultation. However, an annual report shall be drawn up on the disputes submitted, albeit on an anonymous basis. To date, there is no stick behind the door to counter unfair commercial practices in our country. In the meantime, the chain consultation is expected to do a good job. There has been extensive discussion on the technical side of the dispute settlement on the website, but information on the output is not available. Minister, what is your opinion on a possible extension of the code of conduct with a clause that the outcome of disputes, although anonymous and uniform, will be made publicly available on the website, in such a way that there is statistical evidence for the functioning of the chain consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u51	Mr President, Mr Gantois, the agro-food chain consultation is a private initiative. The code of conduct comes forward from these consultations. In these consultations, disputes, most of which concern contracts between economic partners, are settled almost exclusively through consultation and discussion between interested parties. Finding a solution to disputes is only possible through mutual trust and respect for confidentiality. Any form of publicity could harm the chain consultation and the working method. It is therefore up to the partners in the chain talks to decide on this. After all, the chain consultation and the resulting code of conduct are, as I said, a private initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u52	Minister, it is indeed a private initiative, which you have supported, as well as Minister Bourgeois. Even if it is a private initiative, if one wants to create confidence and be credible, there is nothing against publishing figures of one's own operation. This is a message you might be able to take with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u53	Mr President, Minister, the ever-increasing e-commerce market presents many challenges. There may also be problems in the area of consumer rights. For online purchases, physical contact between consumer, seller and product is not possible. The reason why these purchases are covered by European rules on purchases outside shops. An important protection is the right to return an online order that is not covered by the exceptions free of charge and without reason within a 14-day reflection period. In doing so, the seller must refund the purchase price and bear the original delivery costs. A study carried out by the Dutch Consumers' Association revealed that 44% of the controlled web stores do not comply with this regulation. For example, the amount due was not repaid or not repaid in full. In some cases, it also took a very long time before the amount was refunded. My questions are as follows. Do you have figures on the number of infringements by web stores against consumer withdrawal laws? Do you see a need to tighten up checks on this? What other initiatives do you see as necessary to make the consumer aware of this right to return the package within 14 days?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u54	Mr President, Mr Janssen, the Economic Inspectorate does indeed supervise electronic commerce. For example, 567 targeted checks were carried out in 2017 which led to the preparation of 241 alert minutes and 21 minutes. However, the inspection's registration system does not allow for the determination of the number of files specifically related to the consumer's right of withdrawal. The Economic Inspectorate must allocate its resources to the many areas in which it operates. In this respect, I do not think there is any need for stricter controls. I'm always open to suggestions. The consumer who would have a dispute with regard to the right of withdrawal can always rely on out-of-court dispute settlement. In addition, there is a specific European ODR platform, Online Dispute Resolution, for online trade disputes. The consumer may also seek the assistance of the European Centre for the Consumer. I believe that the average consumer is well aware of the existence of the right of withdrawal when buying goods online. Moreover, the online trader must provide information on this. In addition, the consumer can find a lot of information on this subject, including on the website of the FPS Economy. That is why I do not think it is necessary to develop specific new initiatives. But again, if you have any suggestions, I'd very much like to take them with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It was obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u56	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Lachaert converted 25352 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Galant's 25365 is for the Justice Commission. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's 25372 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Galant's 25378 question is also converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lalieux's 25411 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 24949 by Mrs Fonck is postponed at her request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u57	Mr Minister, recently an article appeared in the press in which the ACV complained that more and more accidents at work are being refused by insurers. Really remarkable is that the statistics for each insurance company vary enormously. Assuralia, the sector federation, could not provide a conclusive answer to the question as to why these large differences exist. It does suspect that the composition of the customer portfolio and the commercial approach of insurers have an influence, but it was not really conclusive. I believe that an accident at work is an accident at work. In the disputed cases, it seems to be very often about commuting. It seems to me that it is relatively easy to determine whether or not a journey is covered by commuting. I therefore wonder whether the insurance companies use the same criteria when accepting such dossiers. If the differences are so great, I believe that this will require at least more research. I still want to assume that there are commercial differences and that the customer portfolios are compiled differently. If it turns out that this is an effective answer to the differences, I will of course be happy to accept it. I believe, however, that it is urgently necessary to take a closer look at this. In my opinion, the FSMA has a role to play in this. It must check that the criteria are correctly applied by the different companies. This should be done in the form of an audit or sample. It must be made absolutely clear that the victims of an accident at work are not dependent on the society in which their employer is insured to be eligible for compensation. What do you think of the proposal to have an audit carried out by the FSMA?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u58	Mr Klaps, the average rate of refusal of accidents at work has fallen from 12.7% in 2015 to 11.5% in 2016, the first decline over 20 years. Fedris' statistical report of 19 March 2018 shows that 3 insurance companies are above the sector average: Federal Insurance, Ethias and AXA. Ethias and AXA exceeded the sector average already in 2015, but for Federal Insurance it is the first time since 2008. In addition, Federal Insurance becomes the insurance company with the highest rate of refusal in the sector. Furthermore, I would like to inform you that the FSMA is not competent to carry out an audit of the differences between the rates of refusal between the accident insurance companies and the criteria they apply, which is the responsibility of Fedris. Fedris, whose inspectors are able to carry out the necessary checks and findings, shall monitor the resolution of accidents at work and, in particular, the refusal. In particular, the Fedris shall assess the legitimate nature of refusals of recognition. The Fedris' powers in this area were even significantly strengthened by the Law of 21 December 2013. In the event of a dispute between the insurance undertaking and the Fedris concerning the charge of the accident at work and the maintenance of the insurance undertaking's refusal to take charge of the accident, the Fedris may bring the dispute before the competent court. As you know, the Fedris is a public institution of social security and falls within the competence of my colleague, Mrs Maggie De Block, responsible for Social Affairs. I have forwarded your question to her and asked her to keep you informed of the further follow-up she wishes to give to your suggestion to carry out an audit. Of course, you can always talk to her about that yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u59	Mr Minister, given the importance of this dossier for persons who have an accident at work, I will do so with the necessary dash.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u60	Mr. President, Minister, last October, you announced your intention to eliminate the debt of copyright societies to artists. This is a major problem for the latter whose incomes are often limited. Nearly 600 million euros were still to be paid by these companies to the artists. "In the space of four years, the amount has increased by 129 million euros," you said at the time. Anyone who wishes to use works of an artistic nature, such as music, images or texts, is liable for copyright. The societies managing these rights collect them and give them back to the authors and artists. These payments sometimes prove to be laborious. For example, I was questioned by an author who had had to pay fees for his own works but who did not receive from the copyright society the amount or even part of the amount that he had paid for his own works. It's a bit special, especially when you're a beginner. In the meantime, Minister, you have normally met with those responsible for these companies. Over the past five years, how has copyright society debt to authors evolved? How much does this debt amount to today? Do you think the evolution is positive and satisfactory? Over the past five years, how have the management costs of these companies (another important variable) changed? Do you estimate this satisfactory amount, i.e. are the costs sufficiently limited to give the authors a maximum salary? How do copyright companies explain the evolution of these amounts, i.e. the increase in the amount not paid? What measures have you taken or intend to take to reduce the debt of authors' societies and management fees? How do you intend to take into account the authors' criticism of these companies in order to improve their functioning? Have you engaged in a dialogue with authors' representatives? In general, should copyright societies not be subject to an external audit (e.g. by the Court of Auditors) on the basis of which reforms could be decided?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u61	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, the most recent figures for the debt control service to eligible beneficiaries refer to the year 2016, when the debt was somewhat more than EUR 663 million. The substantial increase over 2015 is the result of an adjustment of the accounting treatment of one of the management companies. In this adjustment, debt would have decreased slightly compared to 2015. In 2016, the operating costs of the various management companies averaged 16.48 per cent, down from 2015. For the detailed evolution of the figures in recent years, I refer to the annual report of the control service, available on the website of the SPF Economy. The management companies explain these debts and operating costs because of the complexity of collective management and the large number of actors involved. I believe, however, that the results are not good. I have already met with management companies twice to discuss ways of remedying this situation. Therefore, in conjunction with the various management companies, the control department is in the process of drawing up an action plan to further improve these figures in the future. One component of this plan is to identify good practices that will enable management companies to improve their operations. Another aspect relates to the exchange of standardised information between management companies and users. In this regard, on 4 May, a meeting was still held in my office with broadcasting organizations and ISAN, as the ASBL developed the standard. The role of the supervisory service and the public authorities is, first, to ensure that the management companies, which are also controlled by the beneficiaries, comply with the rules and their internal rules and, second, to deal with the complaints lodged by the beneficiaries. Control services have been in existence for a long time, and their controls are focused in particular on the above-mentioned issue of management companies. Also, I do not see from the outset the added value of an external audit, but again, I am open to listening to anything that you have and that would justify such an audit. But for the time being, with the elements in hand, the added value is not important enough to ask for an external audit. On the basis of the report of the supervisory services and the consultation with the management companies, it was possible to identify several problematic points in relation to the operation of the management companies. It is now the responsibility of the latter to provide solutions, if necessary in conjunction with a government regulatory initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u62	Minister, thank you for your answers. There is a real concern to improve the functioning of copyright societies. They are essential for the authors to be paid, but I do not think they can be said to work optimally. I am pleased to see that it is a matter that you have taken on board and that you are trying, with the services of the SPF Economy and in dialogue with the companies concerned, to improve things. I think there is certainly a way to do better. I suggest two leads. The first is to have a space to listen to the authors themselves so that they can communicate to the FPS Economy the difficulties they encounter with the societies that are supposed to represent them and pay them. There are many misunderstandings between authors and copyright societies. Then, you feel that an external audit is not particularly necessary at this time. I would suggest that the Court of Auditors, which is a public body of the House and provides very detailed opinions on various areas of public administration, should one day be able to look at the functioning of copyright societies. Perhaps it will come up with difficulties and solutions that do not appear clearly to those who are in charge of this control on a daily basis. It is not a question of deconsidering the daily action of the services of the SPF Economy but of saying that, from time to time, an external look can be useful. Minister, I would like to inform you of the many concerns and questions about the functioning of copyright societies today. Keep on paying attention to it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u63	Mr President, Minister, on several occasions I asked your predecessor, and then you yourself, about the large volume of explosives stored on the site of the former NATO base in Sugny, municipality of Vresse-sur-Semois, in Namur province. As a reminder, in 2009, Alpeco Fireworks had been granted a 20-year tenure concession by the same municipality as the owner of the base. It was about storing fireworks in the bunkers erected during the Cold War. Unfortunately, it quickly became apparent that the terms of the agreement were not respected by Alpeco Fireworks and, in 2013, the SPF Economy placed seals on the site. A year later, the company's bankruptcy was pronounced. At the beginning of 2015, you indicated that an inventory of the products present had been established, classified by category, including waste to be destroyed, and that the bunkers containing these products were known and sealed. You also stated that the destruction was the responsibility of the trustee of the company in question. In addition to the stock of 1,400 tons belonging to the bankrupt company, the Sugny bunkers also accommodate an equivalent volume of fireworks and firecrackers seized by Customs, SPF Finance and SPF Economy. At the beginning of April, your spokesman personally confirmed – and I thank him again – that a call for tenders had been launched for the evacuation and destruction of some of the confiscated fireworks and that the mission was under way. A new call for tenders was reportedly launched to evacuate the balance of the seized equipment. On the other hand, the issue of the evacuation of explosives from Alpeco Fireworks remains pending. Minister, I would like to make this clear. How many tons of explosives are stored on the Sugny site? What share do the goods of Alpeco Fireworks and those seized by the administration represent? What is the exact type of explosives? Do you confirm that only part of the seized goods was, at this stage, evacuated? How many tonnes are involved? What is the cost of this operation? When will the balance of this stock leave Sugny? Can you provide an update on the procedure for the disposal of Alpeco Fireworks stock? By what date will it be completed? What is the total cost of the operation? Can you confirm that the local authorities in this small rural commune will not be involved? They are concerned about this, given their meagre means. How have the responsible persons and owners of these explosives been, or will they be, responsible for the cost of this evacuation to the public authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u64	Minister, we listen very carefully to your answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u65	Mr. President, it is a great pleasure. Mr Gilkinet, as far as your first question is concerned, 2,000 m3 of pyrotechnic products are stored on the Sugny site. The goods of Alpeco represent 1,700 m3 (of which 700 m3 have been seized by the administration) and are mainly fireworks of the entertainment category. With regard to your questions 2 to 5, to date, the most dangerous pyrotechnic products have been evacuated and destroyed. These are both seized products and products from Alpeco's bankruptcy. This represents a volume of 190 m3 for an amount of 190 000 euros. An additional budget of €500,000 is foreseen for the destruction of seizures. In response to your questions 3 and 7, although my services provide technical and logistical expertise, the evacuation of seized products and the accountability of the persons concerned fall within the competence of the Minister of Justice, as these are cases for the prosecution. With regard to your fourth and sixth questions, the evacuation of Alpeco's stock is the responsibility of the curator. It is not excluded that local authorities should be involved, as they are owners of the site.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u66	It is therefore a case that is not closed. One can wonder, as I have been doing since the beginning, about the validity of the authorization that was given at the time for storage on this site. On the one hand, the municipal administration probably did not have the shoulders to carry out the necessary checks itself. And on the other hand, the company was not serious because it quickly went bankrupt. The public cost of this whole story is enormous: 190 000 euros already committed, 500 000 euros earmarked for the next budget and a few remaining questions about the deadlines and the final accountability of each other. All this is a big mess. I hope that the FPS Economy is following this issue carefully because public safety in this region must be taken into account. Bunkers are strong but there may be attempts to break them. Not everyone has good intentions and they are dangerous explosives. I therefore ask you to continue to follow this issue, together with the SPF Economy, as seriously as possible. And I'm worried about the municipality of Vresse-sur-Semois who, as its owner, could at some point be held liable. That is not to do anything, Mr. Chairman, when you are an agent in a commune. The actions taken, in this case at the time of signing a lease, should be properly measured.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic894x.u67	Of course, Mr Gilkinet. And I will add that if there are fraudsters in the case, this commune will soon house a prison to lock them in! But this is another subject.
