ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u1	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, we are all aware of the debacle at the exhibition of Russian avant-garde works at the Museum of Fine Arts in Ghent (MSK). The MSK has apparently acted carelessly on the art historical research of the works in question before exhibiting them. More than that: it also did not have material technical analyses carried out or requested. That is strange, because it is well known in the art world that one should be careful with the realm of such works. However, an analysis of color pigments can show whether the paint used is from the time in question or not, and thus offer more guarantee. The Royal Institute for the Art Heritage (KIK), one of the federal scientific institutions for which you are competent, has a great deal of expertise in this type of research. It has become known in the media that a few years ago the KIK was able to perform pigment analyses on some paintings by Russian avant-gardists in which Mr Toporovski acted as an intermediary. I have the following questions. Can you confirm that the KIK has carried out those analyses? What were the results? Should the KIK have announced those results?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u2	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you and my fellow Members for being so understanding during my maternity leave that I should be given a written reply. Me and my daughter are grateful to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u3	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u4	Mr Janssen, your questions have indeed been very topical in recent weeks. I contacted the KIK last week to know what his role was in this. I can inform you that in January 2016 the KIK, the Royal Institute for the Art Heritage, carried out material technical analyses on a number of works at the request of Mr Toporovski. Mr Toporovski then acted as an intermediary and also paid the costs for this investigation to the KIK. What research was carried out at the time? From five works small paint samples were taken from the client's home for an analysis of the color pigments. However, no definitive conclusions on the authenticity of the works could be drawn from the results of the KIK. Before that, the investigation was too partial. During the oral discussion of the research results, the KIK asked for at least one of the works to be subject to a full investigation. After discussing the results of the research, Mr Toporovski did not contact me any further, so the KIK tells me. I note that in the last week there will be questions about the role of the KIK in connection with the exhibition of Russian art at the Museum of Fine Arts in Ghent. Allow me to dwell on this. When individuals or bodies get into tight shoes, it happens more often that they point an accusing finger at someone who has nothing to do with it. Let me make it clear that a museum must be the first and only one to investigate whether the works it wants to exhibit are real or not. The KIK could have used its scientific expertise in the matter of the exhibition in Ghent, if the museum in Ghent had asked for that expertise. However, that did not happen. I can inform you very formally that the KIK was not asked by the Ghent museum to investigate the authenticity of the works. The museum itself has decided to exhibit the works. The KIK is therefore not an involved party in this case. The KIK is not the sheriff of the museums. It is a world-famous institution that can do an expertise on demand. I'm afraid that question didn't come. It is also not the KIK that has brought this unknown collection of Russian art to the attention of various museums, nor has it taken the decision to exhibit some of these works. That was the museum's decision of the Museum of Fine Arts itself and only of that institution. Before her suspension, Mrs. de Zegher confirmed that she had full confidence in her trained expert eye. In other words, the full responsibility for this debacle and the reputational damage it has caused internationally lies with the MSK in Ghent. Finally, there was the question of what the role of the KIK is. I can tell you that the KIK gets two or three questions a week regarding the research of paintings. After a first selection by e-mail, 45 paintings were studied in materials for example in 2016. In all cases, the clients were private persons. To the question whether the KIK should disclose the results to the public as well as to the clients, the KIK replies that the law of 11 April 1994 on the disclosure of administrative information does not apply to them. That also makes sense to me, since the nature of such matters is of a confidential nature. If such expertise were to fall within the scope of the public administration legislation, no private person would still benefit from the paying service. So let us not turn things around. The responsibility for this debacle was indeed a debacle, also internationally there is reputational damage where it must lie, namely with the management of the MSK in Ghent and who must take responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u5	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, it is, of course, a great pity that this has ended up in the media. We can only hope that such debacles will not take place in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u6	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, within the European Horizon 2020 framework programme, Belgium already has more than 2,500 participants, representing EUR 1.04 billion. In your policy note, you indicate that "the efforts made by universities, research institutions (including federal scientific institutions), SMEs and the largest companies are supported by various initiatives of the Regions and Communities, as well as by the federal authority." Madam Secretary of State, what initiatives are being taken by the federal government to support research institutions, SMEs and larger companies? Is there a dialogue with actors on the ground to find out how best to help them? Can the number of participants increase further? What is the budget of the European Horizon 2020 Framework Programme? What is the distribution for Belgium? In order to increase Belgium's chances of success at the international level, you indicate in your general policy note that coordination between the various levels of policy is needed. At present, what is the status of this coordination? Is it optimal? What are the ways to improve it further?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u7	Mr President, Mrs Cassart, thank you for your question. Federal support is focused primarily on Federal Scientific Institutions (FSIs). It is within the framework of the Horizon 2020 programme that the Eurofed service of the Science Policy PPS supports the ESF. Eurofed's tasks are as follows: to inform ESFs through information sessions on the latest developments in the Horizon 2020 Framework Programme; to provide information and documentation to ESFs on how projects are drafted; to verify proposals in advance; to identify partners for projects; to draft research projects; to invite researchers from ESFs to express their views on the Framework Programme and to use their contribution in determining the Belgian position at preparatory meetings for new European work programmes and the future EU R&I Framework Programme. The initiatives taken to support the private sector are obviously within the purview of the Federal Science Policy, rather limited and relate only to space. In concrete terms, the Federal Science Policy focuses on the actors active in this field to inform them of the actions that may be of interest to them and to encourage their participation in them, to consult them in advance on the content of the work programmes in order to unite actions to support innovation in their area of competence. There is ongoing contact between Eurofed and researchers under Horizon 2020. The focus of the briefings is on their needs. They also have the opportunity to provide anonymous feedback on open support and to make proposals to further improve the assistance provided to researchers in the future. From 2004 to 2016, the number of Belgian participants increased steadily from 324 to 1,016. In 2017, a slight decrease was observed. Of course, there is still room for growth in Belgian participation in Horizon 2020. There is a potential for growth in Belgium's participation in Horizon 2020. The overall budget for Horizon 2020 is EUR 77 billion. I will send you the breakdown of this document separately as well as the overview of the amounts awarded to Belgian researchers during the period 2014-2017. With regard to the European Union Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, Belgium is now among the first in class. We owe this success to a number of factors, such as the right level of our universities, but also to some more discreet aspects, such as the work of the CNP with research and innovation actors, as well as the coordination between the various bodies responsible for research and development policy in Belgium. This coordination is carried out mainly through the International Cooperation (CIS) Commissions, Federal Cooperation (CFS) and their focus groups, as well as through the CoorMulti Directorate of the FPS Foreign Affairs, which brings together representatives of the federated entities and the relevant strategic units and federal departments. The current smoothness of coordination does not, of course, mean that no improvement is possible. For example, the CIS, CFS and other international environmental policy bodies organized a meeting on 27 March on the exchange of good practices. The underlying idea is to determine how Belgium can make the best possible contribution to the development of the ninth programme. On 27 March, together with other consultative bodies, the CIS planned a meeting on the exchange of good practices and the idea is to examine how Belgium can best contribute to the development of the ninth R&D framework programme. The exact figures, as an annex to my answer, I will hand you over on paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. We have received many figures. We realize that the number of participants has increased, and that it is a success. I will analyse this annex, but I thank you already for your reply today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u9	Madam Secretary of State, in accordance with the Government Agreement, IDEA Consult has conducted an external audit of the subsidies granted by the SPP Science Policy to Belgian and foreign institutions. In concrete terms, this audit lists all grants and analyses their evolution over five years. In your policy note, you indicate that the study establishes, among other things, that, despite the decrease in the various grants and allocations granted to external organisations - minus 41% over the period 2010-2015 - many smaller-scale allocations are still being made to other organisations and institutions, since, together, they amounted to €4.6 million in 2015. Since, in your view, the federal authority cannot be justified in granting subsidies without any form of return, you have indicated that you have examined the extent to which the granting of these means can be further optimized. Madam Secretary of State, can you give me the results of the study on subsidies granted by the Science Policy PPS to Belgian and foreign institutions? Have you received the report on the use of these subsidies? If so, what about it? Can you communicate it to me? In your policy note, you state: "It is not justified for the federal authority to grant subsidies without any form of return". What do you mean by "no form of return"? Would you like a federal authority's control over the use of these subsidies? In 2015, €4.6 million was allocated to various institutions and organisations. Can you tell me the amount awarded for 2016 and 2017? In order to reduce the burden on the federal authority, would it be possible to involve the federated entities in the granting of these allocations? Finally, how was the €4.6 million allocated to Belgian and foreign establishments?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u10	Mr President, Ms Cassart, at the end of 2016, IDEA Consult conducted an audit and conducted a complementary analysis of the subsidies and support measures provided by the Science Policy PPS. I'll send you the report. However, I would like to point out that this study was based on data for the period 2010-2015 and is therefore no longer consistent with the current situation. All external grants are subject to the Royal Decree on Administrative and Budgetary Control. In my policy statement, I indicated that clear and, above all, measurable objectives should eventually be drawn up for each subside. This requires a change in culture within the Science Policy PPS where, so far, too little effort has been made to target the granting of subsidies. Such a development is part of a broader framework aimed at the most efficient allocation of available resources. Under my influence, we can gradually see the first results of this change in culture. The Académie Royale Flemishe de Belgique and the Académie Royale de Belgique have recently provided a report in which they explain the allocation of the subsidies obtained. Different organizations join forces in order to benefit from economies of scale and increase efficiency. I am thinking here, for example, of the Royal Academy of Outre-Mer Sciences (ARSOM) which joins the Royal Observatory of Belgium (ORB) or the Belgian Historical Institute of Rome (IHBR) which turns into a new Academia Belgica. Any reform of the conditions requires consultation with the parties concerned, the SPP Science Policy and the Finance Inspectorate. It is always necessary to ensure that the balance between administrative burdens and sufficient motivation for the added value of subsidies is maintained. However, I am convinced that the systematic reform of the subsidy policy will finally allow us to move towards a successful federal science policy. With regard to the amounts for 2016 and 2017, I will send them to you. Indeed, it is not obvious to provide these answers orally. Co-financing of federated entities may be considered in some cases. However, this will be determined on a case-by-case basis and will depend heavily on the distribution of competences in Federal Belgium. The vast majority, i.e. 96% of the funds allocated, are granted to wholly or partly Belgian organisations. Partially Belgian organisations include, for example, the agreement with the United States concerning the Mission for Educational Exchange. The Belgian side must indeed allow Belgian students to travel to the United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, in your answer, you are talking about a successful federal policy. I think that's really everyone's goal. I think that's what you're working on. In relation to the figures, you tell me that you will send them to me by written reply. Do I have to return a written question?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u12	No, we'll give them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u14	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Princess Elizabeth station will soon become the Polar Institute. You had announced that the draft legal framework for this AISBL, as provided for in the Government Agreement, and the draft management contract with IPF as the operational manager of the station, would be submitted to the government and parliament for approval before the end of the year. It's early 2018 and I'd like to take stock with you. Madam Secretary of State, in concrete terms, can you explain the significant differences between the current Princess Elizabeth station and the future AISBL Polar Institute? The parliamentary agenda was well-loaded at the end of 2017 and a happy event was added to that. This project could not therefore be voted on at the end of last calendar year. Nevertheless, could you tell me the agenda for this future Polar Institute? Will the text soon be on the benches of parliament? Can you indicate whether the federated entities have been or will be associated with this project? If so, how? Do you have any contact with your counterparts in this regard? If so, what does it come out of? If not, would it not be interesting and appropriate to involve them in this project? Scientific research does not stop only at the federal level and, in order to be ingenious, it is necessary to bring together all the forces present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u15	Mrs Cassart, the current management structure of the Princess Elizabeth South Pole station, the Polar Secretariat, will be replaced by a new structure that will take the form of an international not-for-profit association, called the Polar Institute. I will continue in Dutch because the translation is not complete. The interpreters will translate. The establishment of an Ivzw was already foreseen in the federal government agreement. This was also included in the negotiations between the International Polar Foundation and myself in spring 2017. I have already had the pleasure of explaining the agreement reached in this committee in the summer of 2017. Since then, there has been pressure to implement that agreement. A first concrete result is the organisation of the polar campaign 2017-2018, of which the first feedback I received is positive. In addition, the necessary progress was made in the design of the law establishing the Ivzw Pool Institute. The current Pool Secretariat is a so-called state service with separate management, i.e. an integral part of the federal government. However, the strategic decisions are entrusted to a policy council composed of members designated by the government and members designated by the IPF. The IPF is also the privileged partner. It's still a thousandth owner of the South Pole Base. Following parliamentary approval of the founding law of the Ivzw Pool Institute, the Belgian State becomes the sole owner of the South Pole Base. The Belgian State then entrusts the management of this base to the newly established Pool Institute. This Pole Institute is, as I said, an Ivzw, a separate legal entity. As an international non-profit association, the Pool Institute is also open to the participation of international partners. This should allow the identification of international scientific cooperation and the creation of sustainable partnerships. It goes without saying that these partners will therefore contribute to the management costs of the Antarctic base. However, it is stipulated that Belgium retains the majority in the Pool Institute. Another important difference concerns the status of the IPF. It is stipulated that the IPF will take on the operational and logistical aspects of the management of the Antarctic base in a transitional period. The transitional period is set at five years and can be extended once by three years under strict conditions. Unlike today, they will no longer be a privileged partner, but an operator. As such, they will be present only in an advisory capacity on the management board of the Ivzw. In this way, any hint of conflict of interest is avoided. It also provides for closer involvement of stakeholders in the management of the South Pole Base. To this end, two Advisory Councils are set up, a Scientific Committee and an Advisory Committee with industrial and private partners. You will notice that there is a substantial difference in design between the two organisations. The necessary lessons from the past were drawn in the design of the new structure of the Pool Institute. I am convinced that the Pool Institute will provide a sustainable response to the challenges posed by the exploitation of a South Pole base. As far as the draft law is concerned, I can tell you that all the necessary advice has been obtained. The draft is currently being prepared by Minister Jambon and the King and will then be submitted to the Chamber. I think that we will be able to put the draft law here in committee rather quickly and discuss it. The management of the Antarctic base and compliance with the obligations of the Antarctic Treaty of 1 December 1959 are exclusive of federal powers. Nevertheless, there are certainly similarities with the powers of the Länder in the field of scientific research, such as climate research. The Council of State also noted this in its initial opinion on the draft law establishing the Ivzw Pool Institute. For this reason, I will also contact my fellow State Ministers for Science in the near future to see how interfederal cooperation in this area can be improved. To prepare for this, the Science Policy PPS is currently preparing a first proposal. Mr Cassart, I hope that we will soon be able to adopt the draft law here and that the problem we have unfortunately experienced in the past is once and for all gone and that the scientific researchers who have already been to Antarctica this year are satisfied that they can continue their work in the future. The South Pole Base serves this purpose in the first place.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u16	Madam Secretary of State, I appreciate the last words you have said, namely, "continue to do their work". That's what it's for. As you said, you have to look in front and not behind. The main objective is to make the right decisions, to move forward on the issues and to work. It seems to me that that's what you've been doing since you took office. On the other hand, with regard to the new management of the Polar Institute, to be able to consult the Regions before the dossier arrives on the benches of Parliament seems indispensable to me. I don't think all these communitarian squabs bring much. The goal is really to work and move forward. In any event, the bill that is in intercabinet has already received a lot of positive feedback. We're going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, in your policy note in 2017, we read: "The EDF-tWIN programme aims to designate joint research functions within the FSEs and universities and should lead to sustainable, forward-looking collaboration between the two types of institutions." The law allowing this program was passed at the end of June 2017 and the implementing order was to be published, according to your policy note, at the end of 2017. In this way, the new EDF-tWIN programme could have been launched before this year. This is not the first time I have asked you about the EDF-tWIN programme. I have already had the opportunity to salute your work during the bill's vote last June, but, as you know, patience is not one of my virtues. I would therefore like to take stock with you of the progress made in this matter. Madam Secretary of State, can you tell me when the implementing order will be published so that the EDF-tWIN programme can be launched?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u18	Madam, the publication of the implementing order has been delayed. It's scheduled for spring. Those who know me know that I find that patience is a virtue. Unfortunately, I don't have time to be patient. In recent months, I have repeatedly asked for the necessary preparatory measures to be taken so that the EDF-tWIN programme can be launched quickly. An accompanying committee has been set up. It consists of representatives of the various participating institutions. This committee worked on a draft framework convention. Article 6 of the Act provides that all parties must sign a framework agreement before the programme begins. In this context, several aspects such as common selection and evaluation procedures and intellectual property rights were discussed. At the same time, the first two phases of the programme have already been prepared informally. This is the definition by the FSEs of the areas in which they wish to develop research profiles and the recovery of responses provided by universities. As soon as the implementing order is published, we will be able to move on to the formation of the third phase. Finally, I would like to point out that the impact of this measure on programme implementation and planned budgets is minimal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u19	Madam Secretary of State, you have done a nice French exercise! Thank you for your answer. It is true that patience is not our greatest virtue for both of us. In any case, we will await the conclusion of this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, my question concerns the management of BELSPO and the financial consequences of the various proceedings in this regard. We know that you are not the first to hold this position as Secretary of State for Science Policy. Nevertheless, decisions were taken at the beginning of the legislature and, from our point of view, there is great amateurism, as can be seen from the witch hunt against BELSPO's previous leader, Mr Mettens. In this regard, there have been many discussions in their time, judicial proceedings and decisions of the Council of State. But the Council of State handed over a new decision, dated 20 February, condemning once again the government's manoeuvres in its attempts to evade, in 2015, Mr Mettens from his position as chairman of the SPP Scientific Policy Management Committee despite the fact that he had received the "very good" mention in the final evaluation of his mandate, his great flaw being to be labeled socialist... Moreover, the Court of Auditors noted "anomaly" in its analysis of BELSPO's late payments. What we are keeping from all this, at the end of these years, is that this administration, which was known yesterday for its efficiency and professionalism, seems to be increasingly disturbed today. I would remind you, for example, that BELSPO was the winner of the 2013 Public Institution of the Year Award and that it is ISO 9001 certified. We could expect these disturbances. On the one hand, there have been linear savings in all departments as well as bleak budget cuts and, on the other hand, a desire to abolish this body as such in order to restructure it otherwise. This Federal Science Policy is clearly weakened after three years of government. Finally, it is the excellence of this administration that is being called into question today, which is very regrettable. I come to my questions as a member of the opposition. Madam Secretary of State, do you intend to comply with the decisions of the 8th Chamber of the Administrative Litigation Section of the Council of State, of which it seems that the only consequence is to renew Mr Mettens' mandate for a new term of six years? Since the beginning of the legislature, what amount has been spent on procedural expenses, in legal fees, to prepare for the removal of Mr. Philippe Mettens from office and to replace him with an acting person, and then on a final basis? We count previous, subsequent expenses, appeals in extreme urgency, suspensions, cancellations, etc. What are all these costs, including the costs incurred with the Selor to appoint a replacement for Mr Philippe Mettens, in this case Mr René Delcourt, now declared "illegal appointment"? What is your view of the Court of Auditors' remarks on BELSPO's payment "anomalies"? If so, what measures are you taking to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u21	Thank you for your question, Mr. Delcourt.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u22	Delizée! Delcourt, it's another one! [[Hilarity]] It's a lapsus. I'm not broken by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u23	You are, of course, Mr. Delizée! Mr Delizée, your question has three very interesting aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u24	I am curious to hear your answer, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u25	I am therefore very pleased that you are asking me this question, so I can answer it. The judgment of 20 February 2018 implies that Mr Delcourt is no longer Chairman of the Scientific Policy PPS Management Committee, on the basis of the meaning of this judgment. It entered into force when it was published on the website of the Council of State on 26 February. In accordance with the provisions of Article 20 § 4 of the Royal Decree of 29 October 2001, I will ensure the replacement of the holder of the management function by following the prescription contained in this article. In accordance with that article, I will provide for a temporary replacement of the holder of that management function. I'm gonna have to do that. Since 10 October 2014, a total of EUR 77 310.97 has been paid to three law firms in connection with the appointment of the new President and the seven procedures that Mr Mettens initiated against it. The Court of Auditors has indeed made some recommendations on the better follow-up of invoices received within the federal administrations. In general, the Court of Auditors finds that the records examined, including the Science Policy PPS, record the invoices for the most part within thirty days. Last year, the Science Policy PPS received 3 429 invoices that were handled on average within 12 days; 47 invoices were paid late, with an average lead time of 50 days; 98.7 % of invoices were paid in time. In addition, it was found that the internal procedures of the Science Policy PPS do not meet the requirements of the Court of Auditors. I have reminded my administration that these procedures need to be refined and extended.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic842x.u26	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. From a legal point of view, I think the saga is not over, because we can have a different reading or interpretation of the decisions of the Council of State. In my view, the only conclusion is that the manoeuvre that was put in place was illegal and that we should return to renaming the man who had been. Other subsequent procedures may lead to further decisions. The future will tell us. In hindsight, I regret that more than 77,000 euros have been spent on procedural costs in order to arrive at decisions that are broken. This represents, for this case alone, almost the cost of two researchers for one year, while other procedures for others have been carried out, which is a pity. We may have an opportunity to ask you more questions in the future because I think this carousel will continue. I will read your answers carefully about late payments, but on the whole we regret that, in this department that has an excellent reputation, we know this type of situation. I hope that you will take steps internally to resolve the issues of late payment. At this stage, I find that the file is not closed.
