ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic922x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I think or hope you are in the middle of a discussion on this subject. In April 2017, the European Commission tabled the draft Work-Life Balance Directive not only in Parliament but also in the Council. This is part of the European Pillar of Social Rights. It was drawn up in particular after the withdrawal of the directive on maternity leave. As its name says, this draft directive aims to improve the reconciliation of work and family life, to encourage better sharing of family responsibilities between women and men and to facilitate women's access to the labour market. The directive covers various aspects. In particular, she wants to strengthen parental leave by paying her sick pay. It provides for compulsory paternity leave of 10 days, which is also paid at the level of sickness insurance benefits. It also creates a leave of absence for caregivers close to five days a year. It is true that several Member States have criticized this draft directive. As far as I am concerned, Belgium has not taken a position. I haven't heard any official positioning yet in any way. Minister, you have been directly asked by the League of Families, the Gezinsbond and the Confederation of Family Organisations of the European Union (COFACE). These organisations, in Belgium, but more broadly at European level, have been supporting this European directive since the beginning. They have directly questioned you several times but without success, since their letters have remained unanswered. It is true that Belgium has extended family leave arrangements compared to other countries. At the same time, however, in Belgium, this draft directive would make it possible to improve them, with a view to increasing women's participation in the labour market, by increasing the use of family leave by men. This is important in the light of existing data, notably the 2017 barometer of the parents of the League of Families: 24% of parents who have not taken parental leave cite low pay as the first explanation. Only 30 per cent of men took parental leave in 2017 and 70 per cent of women. Only 55 per cent of fathers took paternity leave, with an average of eight days. Another figure is also challenging. Households without children have similar employment rates by gender: 77.5 per cent of women aged 25 to 49 work, for 78.1 per cent of men. On the other hand, as soon as the first child arrives, the differences are very strong: 88.7% of men with a child work, and only 76.5% of women work. The gap is still widening for households with three or more children: in this case, 84 per cent of men work, and only 56.8 per cent of women. As Minister of Employment, this should certainly be an issue for you. A vote is scheduled for the EPSCO Council on 21 June, if my information is correct. Belgium has a key role to play in supporting this directive vis-à-vis other Member States that grant fewer family leave rights. You yourself have recognized that it would provide more opportunities for women in the labour market, thanks to the increase in parental leave for fathers. I believe that this opportunity must be seized and supported, so that Belgium is at the forefront, on a European scale, with regard to these issues. It is also an issue for social Europe, and it would be defending it with a view to convergence from the top within the European Union on these issues. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, what is Belgium's position on this proposal for a directive? It is also defended by European Commissioner for Employment and Social Affairs Marianne Thyssen. Do you support her? On 15 March, you mentioned the need to find a pragmatic solution in view of budgetary limitations. What about today? What possible elements of the directive are a difficulty? Have you proposed alternatives? What will be the position of Belgium that you will support next week's EPSCO?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic922x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, I would first of all like to stress that Belgium's position on the directive on the balance between work and private life of parents and caregivers is in my view a very positive initiative. Indeed, this proposal is part of our policy to allow for a better reconciliation between work and private life. The main objective is to increase the commitment of male workers to care for children and other family members in need of care and, as a corollary, to increase women's participation in the labour market, an objective that I fully support. The European Commission's initial proposal included a system for parental leave, maternity leave and carers' leave, as well as the right for the worker to request flexible work arrangements from his employer. With the exception of parental leave, there is not yet a European legislative framework for these matters. The Commission initially proposed to grant, during the holidays in question, remuneration or an allowance at least equal to the allowances received in the event of sickness. This obligation is a new element for Member States. The directive in force on parental leave only requires them to grant a right to parental leave and to provide for a right to an allowance during the same period. In the meantime, discussions in the European Council have shown that the budgetary aspect of the Commission's initial proposal has had significant consequences for most Member States. Belgium also expressed its concern in this regard. At the same time, we would like to point out that, in the context of setting the Well-Being envelope in 2017, the government has already made a huge effort in the area of allowances, particularly with regard to parental leave for people at high risk of poverty. Certain allowances for single parents taking thematic leave for the provision of care to a child have been increased, up to 38 % for applications submitted from 1 June 2017. The intention is to make an additional effort by raising the allowances for this target group to the European poverty line, through an increase of 14%. In addition, legislative proposals relating to this topic are still pending in this commission. In addition, our country has indicated in the discussions at European level that, in addition to measures in leave schemes, further policy measures are needed to achieve the objective of greater gender equality. Here we are thinking of a sufficiently large supply of childcare and senior care facilities at an affordable price. This allows families to freely choose their own work and family life. The most recent version of the Bulgarian Presidency text of 8 June last refers, for example, to four months of parental leave, of which two months are non-transferable with an age limit for children to be laid down by the Member State or by the social partners. For the non-transferable part of parental and birth leave in this proposal, the Member States and the social partners could themselves define the corresponding allowance. These are some explanations for the ongoing discussions on the proposal for a directive. In conclusion, since Belgium already has a very efficient system of leave which is relatively close to what the Commission is proposing, of course we fully support the objective of the proposal for a directive. Nevertheless, in view of the concerns raised above, it seems to me appropriate, in view of the current context, to begin constructively towards a balanced and adequate regime that is realistic for all Member States and also for the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic922x.u3	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. You insist on your support, but you also insist on what I think is a much more restrictive view of the original objective of the European directive. You support an objective, but you nevertheless want a more balanced, more appropriate regime, where there is not much progress or, in any case, no progress with a budgetary impact. I hear what you're saying. But if you had told me that we were moving forward on this directive by possibly proposing a phase in time, that would have been more acceptable in the light of the realities of the families. Under this legislature, you have argued a great deal in favour of flexibility at work. Let me remind you that this flexibility must go both ways. This is a question of extremely important issues. I recalled what could be a major reason for moving forward in the direction of this directive. This is also the Marianne Thyssen directive. It would be surprising if Belgium did not support its Commissioner in a clear and strong way, and with a very great ambition in relation to families. I have even heard – Coreper discusses the issue – that a form of bridge clause would be introduced that would allow states to use communicating vessels in the package. If they make some progress, they could push back other work-life balance measures or modalities, which is really challenging. Deputy Prime Minister, therefore, I can only stand behind Marianne Thyssen and plead for Belgium to take a strong position on this matter. In this respect, you should be able to inform us, before 21 June, of the position which the Belgian Government will defend. On the other hand, Belgium must have a proactive approach, even if it is to phase in the implementation of the measures over time. A clear course must be taken on these family issues that affect all concerned and, in particular, all those who work. I therefore move a positive motion. It is important to do so also from time to time in a positive way. It is a motion of recommendation that fully supports Marianne Thyssen. I hope that you and the federal government, in this case, will also support Marianne Thyssen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic922x.u4	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Catherine Fonck and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Employment, Economy and Consumer Affairs, responsible for external trade, asks the government - adopt a proactive approach in support of the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the work-life balance of parents and caregivers and repealing Council Directive 2010/18/EU, which will make it possible to move towards more social Europe and contribute to upward convergence on family leave in the European Union; - to communicate Belgium's position on the proposal for a directive to the Federal Parliament and the reasons for that position." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Catherine Fonck and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Employment, Economy and Consumers, responsible for Foreign Trade, calls on the Government - to support the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the balance of work and private life for parents and carers and repealing Council Directive 2010/18/EU in a voluntarist manner in order to strengthen social Europe and contribute to upward convergence in the field of family leave in the European Union; - to communicate our country's position on that proposal to the Federal Parliament and the reasons for that position." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Stefaan Vercamer. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Stefaan Vercamer. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic922x.u5	Minister, if I am well informed, you have until 4.30 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that we listen to the Minister's exposé and then see what time it is. We can then decide in consultation whether to proceed to the questions of Members or to postpone them to a next sitting. If today we decide not to deal with the questions after the exhibition, given the time limit, the Minister will come in the afternoon on 4 July to continue the work. I propose that we first listen to the exhibition and then decide how to proceed, today or next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic922x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as always, I will try to support my brief, strong and clear explanation with slides. Those slides will be distributed as well. Ik zal spreken over zes elementen: wettelijke based in definitie; status of the artist in the regulation of unemployment; cijfergevens; actions undertaken in 2018; geplande acts in 2018; to conclude, possible solutions or possible solution. I'll start with the legal base. The legal basis for artists in the regulation of unemployment has changed since February 2014. First, on 7 February 2014, a Royal Decree and a Ministerial Decree amended the specific articles on the artist's statute, which were included in the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 and 26 November 1991. Second, the amendments were published on 20 February 2014 in the Belgian Official Journal and were in force from 1 April 2014. The adaptation of the legal basis also defined a number of concepts. First, artistic activity was defined as follows: "This is the creation and/or performance or interpretation of artistic oeuvres in audiovisual and visual arts, in music, in literature, spectacle, theatre and choreography." The second point concerns the definition of pay at work. It is defined as a lump sum salary awarded to perform an artistic task unrelated to a number of days of benefit. The following definition concerns the small fee scheme. The definition is clear: "This scheme provides that artists who receive only an expense payment for their artistic services or works are not covered by social security legislation and therefore should not declare them." The next slide concerns the Artists Commission. During the February 2014 adaptations, the competencies of the Artists Commission were also expanded. The committee's powers are as follows. Firstly, the Committee decides on the applications for an artist's visa for whom artistic achievements are achieved. The visa shall certify the artistic character of the applicant's performance and works. Secondly, the committee is issuing the artist's card. That card needs the artist to be able to make use of the small fee scheme. Third, the declaration of independent activity gives artists the opportunity to provide artistic performances on demand and under independent status. Finally, it must inform artists of their rights and obligations with regard to the status of employees and/or self-employed persons. Exceptions for artists. In the slide you can see now, we give an overview of the exceptions for artists in the unemployment regulations. The first exception rule for artists exists in the framework of unemployment benefits on the basis of work. As with other unemployed people, an artist must prove sufficient working days to be entitled to unemployment benefit. These are for those under 36 years of age, 312 days during the previous 21 months, for those between 36 and 50 years, 468 days during the previous 33 months and for the 50-plussers 624 days during the previous 42 months. The rule is that, as with all unemployed people, a working day is equal to a day. For the artists there is a first deviating and advantageous rule, in accordance with Article 10 of the Ministerial Decree: "When the artist receives a job wage or a salary subject to Article 1bis RSZ law, the gross wage is divided by 60.1 euros in order to reach the number of days worked." The second exception concerns the degressivity of unemployment benefits. Unemployment benefits are based on the principle of degressivity. After a first and second period, the unemployed person falls back on a flat rate. There is a derogatory rule that is advantageous to artists. An artist can remain in the first period of degression if he can prove 156 days of paid work in the last 18 months, including at least 104 days as an artist. After 12 months, the advantage of staying in the first period can be renewed over and over again if three performances as an artist are proven during the previous 12 months. What about the cumulation rules for artistic activities and unemployment benefits? In the case of unemployment benefit, the principle is always that you are not entitled to benefit on days when you have a contract of employment and therefore receive a wage. If you receive unemployment benefit, there is a compulsory declaration of artistic activities. In the month in which the artist declared pay for the task, the number of days of allowances is reduced according to the formula of pay for the task. After all, the converted days count as proven working days. I'm gonna give you some numbers now. On my question, between 1 October 2017 and 31 December 2017, decisions on admission to unemployment benefit based on artistic activities were kept manually by the RVA. These figures show that for the unemployment offices Brussels and Antwerp there were 70 decisions during that period which allowed artists to receive unemployment benefits based on artistic activities. Job pay was applied to 55% of these decisions. In the same period there were 43 positive decisions to neutralize degressivity. Forty-four per cent of these decisions were subject to job pay. In total, 155 decisions were taken between 1 October 2017 and 31 December 2017 in the framework of artistic activities, of which 73 % positive and 27 % negative. The figures of the RVA show that the number of unemployed with an artistic activity is increasing every year. On 30 June 2016, there were 7 304, and on 30 June 2017 it had increased to 7 934. In January 2018, there were 8 105 unemployed with an artistic activity. Once admitted on the basis of pay at work, however, ONEM figures show that there is a decrease in the number of days of unemployment benefits, at least after the compulsory declaration of pay at work. In 2015, there were 3 240 reductions in benefits after declaration of job wages for 1 785 artists. In 2016 this decreased to 1 959 for 1 011 artists. In 2017, this further decreased to 1 701 reductions for 903 artists. In addition, the 2017 figure shows that 80% of the paid unemployed with an artistic activity worked less than 78 days in the last four quarters. All that data will also be transferred to you, or maybe you've already received it. They are figures that we believe can objectify the debate. Then I come to the actions undertaken in 2018. The slide provides an overview of all actions undertaken in 2018 under the statute of artists within the unemployment regulations. I'll go over it. On 19 January there was a consultation with the sector representative of the artistic sector on the status of artists within the unemployment regulations. On 24 January 2018, the Chairs of the Joint Committees concerned, which are its Joint Committee 227, Joint Committee 303/01, Joint Committee 304 and Joint Committee 329, were asked to produce an opinion on the salary by the end of February of the same year. On January 30, 2018, you will recall that, without a doubt, a hearing on the artist's statute took place in this Committee for Social Affairs. On 31 January 2018, I had a personal conversation with the administrator-general of the RVA on the subject. On 28 February 2018, I received the advice of the Joint Committee. The social partners' proposals were discussed on 6 March. After these proposals were discussed with the technicians of the RVA, consultations with the sector representatives took place on 30 March. They were asked to convert their proposals into collective agreements, with the aim of ensuring the legal certainty of artists and artists. On 9 March and 18 April I informed the relevant ministers of the sub-governments of the progress of the dossier. So we have worked hard on this, like this committee. What actions are planned for 2018? This is therefore an overview of six proposals from the social partners on the use of job pay in unemployment regulations. The following six criteria must be met in order to regard the job wage as a correct form of remuneration. First point: there must be a contract. Secondly, this agreement explicitly states that the method of remuneration is a job wage. Third point: it must be an artistic performance, according to its fixed definition. In case of doubt, the ONEM requests the opinion of the Artists Commission. Fourthly, the wages paid must not be lower than or must correspond to wages in accordance with collective agreements on the basis of the number of hours scheduled in the schedule of hours. Wage must be proportionate to the performance, taking into account the individual preparations of the artist. Fifth point: the contract may contain an honorarium, but this does not exclude paid work at work. Sixthly, the mission or task must be clearly defined so that control is possible and its artistic character can be clearly deduced. We can say that the artists and artists have a specific way of working. An ideal solution for this specific way of working is being sought. One possible slope is that of the autonomous employee. This is not a new third statute and the following is provided for. The person who executes a contract under an authority, in exchange for a salary, an investment opportunity and, by mutual agreement, objectives and results to be achieved are set... It is therefore the person who carries out a contract under authority in exchange for wages and an investment in development opportunities, in which the objectives and results to be achieved are defined by mutual agreement. In carrying out this assignment, the autonomous employee determines, within the agreed contours and budgets, how he or she performs this task. These objectives and/or results should be simple, unambiguous, verifiable and realistic. The contract must also be related to the chosen availability. The agreement must therefore make a choice between equivalence with a full-time job or a part-time job. So far, an overview of this file. Many questions have been asked about this in the past, both by the majority and by the opposition. We have had very close consultations with the social partners and with other groups to find a solution. After this explanatory statement, I look forward to the discussion and the questions that may arise today or at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic922x.u7	Colleagues, it's been 4:00 p.m. and that means we're still half an hour away. I'm looking at you to decide what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic922x.u8	Mr President, this is a very interesting subject that we have been working on for a long time in this committee. However, half an hour will not be enough to continue the discussion on this subject; at most we will all be able to ask our questions. Perhaps it would be better to plan a new moment to discuss this extensively with the Minister. I fear that we will not be able to hold a broad debate in half an hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic922x.u9	Mr. Chairman, now that we have the minister's note, we will be able to analyse it. It would make no sense to do so now in half an hour. We need a real exchange. On the basis of this note, we will also ask for a series of clarifications. You proposed on the 4th of July, if I understand correctly. I propose that we set aside a few hours for this discussion that afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic922x.u10	I understand that the Minister can be present on 4 July in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic922x.u11	It'll be passed on in a minute. May I make a suggestion? If there are any questions I still have to check with the RVA or ask for figures, they can be delivered to me in advance. In this way I can give the necessary information immediately and we can work as efficiently as possible. If that is the committee's question, I will, of course, take off for more than half an hour. There were three questions left. Mr President, you will also have to decide what to do with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic922x.u12	I'm gonna take a look at my colleague Vercamer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic922x.u13	I said at the previous committee that it might be useful, if we wanted to discuss this issue a little more thoroughly, to hear Minister De Block on social security status and social protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic922x.u14	You understand that Minister De Block was asked to be here today, but this didn't work. I suggest we invite her on July 4th, in the afternoon. After all, I note that there is support for this. My personal assessment is next. If we are to see each other again on 4 July to discuss this subject, I think it would be more useful to discuss everything globally, even though three questions have already been prepared. If the groups that have not yet tabled any questions still want to ask them, they can submit them in advance, so that we can deal with them efficiently on 4 July.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic922x.u15	If this is a real exchange of views with the minister on his note, there is no need to introduce individual questions. During an exchange of views, MPs and the Minister intervene in turn, questions should not be tabled to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic922x.u16	This is not an obligation; it is a question from the Minister. If he has to answer in detail, he'll be better prepared. It doesn't stop you from asking questions at the next meeting anyway. If we agree on this, we will now end our work and pick up again on 4 July in the afternoon.
