ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u1	I submitted this question as early as December. Because I've lost sight of the situation a little bit. I have already expressed my incomprehension about the decision to abolish Farmaka, an independent help for general practitioners. In particular, I did not understand why you made a decision before the full results of the research report were known, since the second part of that report would not be submitted to the board of the KCE until January. Madam Secretary, why did you decide on this before knowing all the results? What's the progress on the investigation report? Has that produced any new results that you take into account? As I said, it is rather a question of a state of affairs, since I submitted the question a long time ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u2	Your question is still topical. The first part of the knowledge report deals specifically with the funding and governance model of the federal Plan Evidence-based Practice. Since it was the wish to start the federal plan effectively in 2018, we have already made a number of policy decisions on the organisation of the evidence-based plan at federal level on the basis of the first part of the report. For the pillar of independent medicinal product information, it was chosen to integrate all initiatives in this field into a single pillar of Medicines, which is closely followed by the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products. In addition, a large part of Farmaka's staff, involved in the Elder Care Formularium and the independent medical visits, has been taken over since 1 January 2018 by the BCFI, which will now carry out all tasks within the medicines pillar. We have therefore asked for the employees who do the same work at Farmaka to be taken over. This was done with the full cooperation of the relevant Farmaka staff. The bundling of forces into a single non-profit organisation will result in more efficient execution of tasks previously carried out by two different bodies, namely BCFI and Farmaka, thanks to scaling up and synergies. This, too, is part of my policy to deal more efficiently with the available resources. The funds that used to go to all distributed organisations continue to be used. There will be no savings on that. We have only made a shift to get more coherent packages in the division of tasks. The second part of the report, which deals mainly with the implementation of the evidence-based practice and the evaluation of its impact, was published on 6 February 2018. Of course, the conclusions of the final report will be taken into account within the pharmaceutical pillar, as we have done for the first part of the report. The aim remains to ensure that independent medicinal product information is brought to the care provider in the most efficient way possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u3	Madam Minister, let me be clear, I am glad that you have sought efficiency here, that there are no savings and that it is happening uniformly and therefore efficiently. I am also pleased that some of the people have been able to pass, but I still think it is a shortcoming that there will seem to be no more medical visits. I understand that the independent information would be given more online. You call that more efficient, and that may appear to be the case at first sight, if we do not go into that further. Only in the field do we notice that doctors say that this means that they are much less entitled to it. The visits forced people to reflect on a number of things and that incentive is now falling away. We continue to regret that. We are all in favour of efficiency, but we do not have the impression that it is happening because of the fact that a lot less doctors might use the independent information that will be disseminated.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u4	Madam President, Minister, the Superior Council of Health (SHC) has issued its report on gambling addiction. As you know, games of chance in our country are tolerated in establishments dedicated to them from the moment they have received a licence from the gambling commission. The CSS presents this pathology as an addiction disorder gradually destroying the individual by increasingly unstable behaviour. In its study, the CSS shows that young players are more affected by this addiction. The survey he conducted indicates that one in two young people between the ages of 12 and 18 have already played a gambling game with money recently and this, facilitated by the internet and smartphones. The CSS concludes its study with recommendations such as the prohibition of advertising for the offer of games, the development of research in this field and the mandatory marking of problem players for the establishments concerned. Minister, this pathology is a scourge for the individuals concerned and their close friends. Overall, what is your analysis of the CSS report? What do you think of their recommendations? Are they individually realistic? How many people are affected by this phenomenon? What are the most affected age groups? What is the gender distribution? What are the main medical factors that can explain this addiction for you? Do you have any figures on the percentage of healing of this pathology in order to assess the quality of our care for it? Finally, we believe that the best way to combat this pathology remains and will remain the winning combination of accompaniment and prevention. Do you think there is a need to strengthen the role of general practitioners, the role of paramedical practitioners and social institutions and social workers in informing, preventing and supporting dependent people?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u5	Madam President, Minister, the World Health Organization (WHO) has launched a think-tank on the recognition of addiction to video games as a disease. It is true that players are getting younger and video games are often time-consuming. Specialists have found that some players suffer from such addiction that they are no longer able to perform their daily tasks or even to perform their professional duties. Specialists on the issue are shared and it is clear that the issues are important. Minister, what is your reaction to the WHO's observations and its proposal to recognize video game addiction as a disease? Some see this recognition of financial interests and an opportunity for pharmaceutical companies to develop new markets rather than a public health issue. What do you think about this? Have recent studies been conducted in this regard? Are you considering initiatives in this area? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u6	Madam President, ladies Galant and Ben Hamou, behind the addiction to gambling, I see more of a public health problem than a question of financial interests or an opportunity for pharmaceutical companies. The priority is to have an offer that meets the needs of problematic players. This offers a continuum of care where prevention and early detection are the best weapons. As with any other addiction, the assistance provided does not only revolve around the object of dependence, but is part of a more holistic approach to the psychosocial state of the person. The latest study conducted on the subject by BELSPO is the CLICK study which dates back to 2013. But there are plethora of national and international studies. The best approach, in terms of public health, involves prevention, detection and early intervention. The "Drugs" thematic meeting of the Interministerial Conference on Public Health mandated the General Drug Policy Unit to draw up a policy proposal on gambling and gambling in Belgium. In October 2016, a summary note was published which provides an overview of prevalence data and current policy, care provision and existing preventive measures. For each heading are mentioned hot spots and points to be improved. Several experts on the subject were consulted. On the basis of this summary note, the Committee was asked to draw up a vision note covering both prevention and the provision of care and regulation of supply. As part of the work, the opinion of the Higher Council of Health on gambling and gambling was given. The members of the gambling and gambling working group will review this report in the coming months and clarify their position in a vision note that will be discussed at an Interdepartmental Public Health Conference on June 2, 2018 or after the holidays. One of the biggest gaps identified in the summary note relates to the lack of recent figures. You asked me for figures about the people involved. It is in fact a fairly discreet group in our society. This is why, from this year onwards, a series of indicators on gambling and gambling, as well as on gambling and gambling addictions, will be included in the health survey conducted by the Scientific Institute of Public Health. Results are expected by the end of 2019. With regard to the medical and other factors that make people vulnerable to gambling and gambling, the Association against Alcohol and Other Drugs has compiled an excellent file in which all these aspects are discussed. You can download the file from the website www.vad.be I have asked for this point to be added to the Committee's discussions, at the same level as the fight against alcohol and drugs in relation to the aspects of addiction, and hence the disease.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer; we will follow the proceedings carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u8	Madam Minister, thank you. I understand your willingness to work on the issue, and I will not fail to return to this issue when the working group has delivered its conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u9	Madam Secretary, an interview in a master's thesis at the VUB with 3 726 doctors shows that more than 80% of his career is the victim of aggression. Meanwhile, within the Department of General Medicine of the VUB, in close cooperation with the Order of Doctors and the anti-aggression group PRaag, there is a new study on violence in the doctor-patient relationship. In May 2016, the Order established a national reporting point for aggression against doctors. Recently, however, doctors found it difficult to find their way to the hotline. Since its creation, a year and a half ago, only 105 reports have been received. The previously mentioned master's test at the VUB shows that only one in five doctors know the hotline. The Order stated in 2016 that an appropriate strategic plan should be developed, together with the competent authorities. This should allow for the appropriate support of doctors in the performance of their duties. In February 2016, the FPS Home Affairs, in collaboration with Public Health, set up a working group on this subject, led by Dr Catherine Sucs of the General Directorate for Security and Prevention. You indicated in 2016 that, on the basis of the advice of this working group, measures can be taken to combat aggression against doctors. Finally, there have also recently been some reports of doctors who were even threatened with their lives in their duties, including the chairman and vice-president of the Provincial Medical Committee of West Flanders. On their heads a price has been set by a doctor who had been banned by the committee. There is also a similar incident with a doctor who was seriously threatened in her position in a committee of the FPS Public Health. On the threats and expressions of aggression towards doctors, I have the following questions. Firstly, are there established procedures following expressions of aggression or threats to doctors? If so, which one? How can aggression towards doctors be tackled decisively in the future? Secondly, in the meantime, have there been findings from the Working Party on the Safety of Care Providers in the FPS Home Affairs? Has the working group already drawn up opinions? What measures have already been taken to combat aggression towards healthcare providers? Thirdly, why is the national hotline getting so few reports? Is an evaluation of the hotline planned? How can we ensure that aggression against doctors is detected more quickly in the future? Will a systematic analysis of information on aggression against doctors be considered in the future? Finally, can you confirm that recent members of committees have been threatened? Are there any more details on this? What measures are being taken to protect the representative doctors?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u10	Mrs Van Hoof, the problem of aggression against doctors, nurses and all aid workers is of course important. Social assistants are also sometimes the victims of this. The study you are quoting would also show that not only general practitioners but also emergency doctors and psychiatrists are victims of violence. The perpetrators of violence are usually psychiatric patients or people who abuse drugs. As you know, the adaptation of Article 458ter of the Criminal Code on professional secrecy in the framework of consultations with the consent of the King's Attorney was motivated, among other things, by the concern for the safety of doctors on watch. The punishment for aggression against healthcare providers was introduced earlier, in particular by inserting an article 410a into the Criminal Code. The national reporting point of the Order of Doctors is gaining in fame. Of course, it's relatively recent. I was at the start of it myself. So it's a new initiative. Further awareness of health care providers, doctors, nurses and others is needed to alert them to the possibility of reporting violence. This will not always be done through the hotline, for example within the practice or the circle, the local quality group or LOG. Doctors often only resort to the Order or the police in extreme need because they do not want to put pressure on the relationship between doctor and patient. The Working Group within the FPS Home Affairs is continuing its work. In the meantime, I am preparing, together with my colleagues responsible for Justice and Home Affairs, a letter addressed to the police officers and the circle chairmen to organise a consultation on security in the area. This will be done on the ground, in the cities and municipalities, with the police area responsible and the locally active doctors in the LOG. Finally, you are talking about threats that members of the committees within the Public Health Office would have received. We asked about this and no one could tell us if that had happened. The different people it was asked to have no knowledge of.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u11	It was spotted by the doctors themselves, so I'll pass it along. It is good that the working party gives advice and I hope that the work will be completed quickly. Violence in society is increasing, not only with regard to care providers, but also with regard to pharmacists. There is a certain fear among doctors to make home visits when they are on watch because they never know what they will encounter. The publication of the hotline is therefore essential in order to provide a listening ear and advice on how to deal with it. It is also good that you will anchor it locally. The local police areas must be alert to this. I also often hear that people from, for example, home care services are attacked when they bring medication. It therefore requires more alertness than before to deal with this, including by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u12	Questions Nos 22754 and 23311 by Mrs Fonck are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u13	Madam Secretary, we have talked about the kinesis before. In the run-up to the discussions and agreements between healthcare providers and the RIZIV, we were able to read on the Axxon website that you had threatened to delete the kinesitherapy from the health insurance. For thousands of patients, kinesi therapy would become priceless.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u14	Is that right? Are there any plans in that direction? Has that been discussed yet? Which way do these calls go? Or is it just a quack?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u15	Mrs Jiroflée, the negotiations of the RIZIV with the representatives of Axxon in the Kine-mut Committee were not easy. Nevertheless, an agreement was reached. Great was the surprise when the same association, both through its website and through other channels, including the radio, called for deconvention. For me, a word is a word and a signature is a signature. I couldn't appreciate that either. Last week, you asked a topical question about this in plenary. At that time it seemed that 20% would refuse the agreement, but in the end it appears to be only 1% more than last year. Nevertheless, I do not like it for all the physicists who assist the patients, that a war is being waged for an agreement that has been achieved. On the association's website the message appeared on 2 January that she had signed the agreement with the knife on the throat. In the sitting I would have threatened to delete kinesi therapy from the health insurance scheme, when I was not even there. I do not think that is a solution. In the Netherlands the kinesi therapy was deleted, but we do not always have to follow the example of our northern neighbours. Anyway, I was never in that meeting and I also immediately questioned my representative in that meeting, Mr De Cock, administrator-general of the RIZIV, who never said that. I do remember a former minister, a member of your party. I'm making a riddle out of it that once mentioned it, but maybe that was a laugh. Mr De Cock asked Axxon why the association had put that on its website, since he had never said so and the communication was taken off as quickly as it came to it. In the meantime, she's gone around the world. Whoever writes, stays. The same applies to a website. There has been tweeting and fluttering about it, also by you and your employees. I didn't respond to that. I do not need to respond to any reflections of people who put words in my administrator-general's mouth. I dare to put my hand in the fire that he does not say crazy things, which have not been discussed in advance with the cabinet and certainly not about something like the deletion of the reimbursement of kinesitherapeutic care.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u16	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I have seen afterwards that it is indeed only 1% more than last time. I'm very happy with that with you. If one of our ministers ever said that, it does not appeal to me. I would have said the same thing to him as to you. I would have found that a huge mistake. In any case, I am reassured to hear you say that you have no intention of doing so. Then we agree. I wanted to hear it out of your mouth anyway, so thank you for the reassurance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u17	Minister, we have already addressed this issue of paediatric drugs and the current requirement to test and test the impact of these drugs on children. Prior to these tests, only adults were tested and doses were then divided by weight. There has, of course, been some progress in relation to these provisions at European level but also at global level. Nevertheless, my attention has been drawn to drugs for the treatment of paediatric cancers. There were exemptions obtained by pharmaceutical companies from this type of paediatric cancer treatment for the obligation to carry out clinical trials on children in this field. Madam Minister, I would have wanted to know what was the status of the discussions at European level on clinical trials for such treatments. In the United States, this was made mandatory last summer. With regard to drug innovations, treatment for children is less positive and less rapid than treatment for adults, given these exemptions from clinical trials for paediatric cancer treatments. What is your position and how are the debates going at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u18	Mrs Gerkens, at European level, a derogation from the requirements for submission of a paediatric investigation plan accompanied by the need to initiate specific clinical studies can be obtained for a specific medicinal product or for a certain class of medicinal products. This is indeed the case for several developing medicines in the treatment of certain types of cancers. The problem to which you refer is not very specific to Belgium, but rather European. It was recognised by the European Commission in its report on the progress made in the field of medicinal products for children since the entry into force of the Regulation on medicinal products for paediatric use ten years ago. We were both here at that time. This report was prepared with input from experts from various stakeholders, including our Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS). The report proposes, among other things, an analysis of the root causes of the relatively small impact of the regulation on oncological medicinal products for paediatric use. However, in the current political and socio-economic context, I am concerned that the consequences of a decision to revise the regulation on paediatric medicines are random and could have the opposite effect to that sought, with a weakening rather than a strengthening of the regulation. The withdrawal by the European Medicines Agency in 2015 of the list of class derogations envisaged relaunching the paediatric debate in this area. The impact of this measure is not yet fully clear at this stage. The AFMPS is following the case closely and the Agency is also developing its expertise in oncopediatry to better ensure its support and advisory role to companies active in the field. In addition, I note that, as a result of increased public attention to the problem, many pharmaceutical companies are now spontaneously submitting more and more paediatric development plans in oncology. Pending possible progress and the results of the analysis proposed in the European Commission's report, the situation in Europe could be influenced indirectly by recent legislative changes in the United States, bearing in mind that development programmes are being implemented at a global level, given the limited number of patients involved. It moves, but does it move in the right direction? It's not clear. The fact that we have developed more expertise within our Agency is, however, positive, as is the increase in the number of studies and research for children in pharmaceutical companies. That is indeed to be followed. It's been going on for ten years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u19	That's right. My intention was indeed to ensure that efforts continued. Derogations for categories are difficult to accept and justify. I'll just add a more global question. From the moment that, in the United States, things have evolved and pharmaceutical companies, spontaneously, are moving towards testing and compliance to improve research, one may wonder why this is happening at the level of the European Union. Since the firms themselves would go in this direction, we can hope to move towards the elimination of the derogations. In any case, it might be interesting to support the fight in this direction with our representatives of the Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u20	Madam President, Madam Secretary, soon it would be possible for everyone to access their medical records via the Personal Health Viewer digital platform. This was to be launched in the first quarter of this year. What information will be displayed through Personal Health Viewer? Override the data with information that is already available online today, as in the Patient Health Viewer? Will certain data already available at the state level be transferred to the federal application without, however, having to be re-entered by the institutions or care providers concerned? Have you already consulted the Länder on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u21	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, it is indeed the intention to simply click through from the Personal Health Viewer to other environments where health data is stored. Of course, this is done with the smart and safe Single Sign-On technology, i.e. after identification via the identity card and authentication of the user who logged in via the eID check. Initially, a limited number of environments can be opened via this click-through mechanism. One will be able to click on the sumehrs from the first line, which is the summary of backgrounds and what is relevant to health. Those are the sumehrs that were brought in by the GP. The first-line medication scheme will also be examined, as will reports and results in hospitals, the management of the informed consent, the Orgadon and the data of the sickness funds. Afterwards, new environments will gradually be opened up, such as electronic medication regulations. Through this approach there will be no overlaps with other environments. Thanks to the principle of hubs and metahub architecture, for example, the person known in a hospital in Ghent, and thus connected to the hub CoZo, will automatically land in the CoZo Health Viewer when clicking on reports and results. Same for a Walloon citizen in the viewer of the rassemblement santé wallon. Through Single Sign-On technology, it will also be possible for the patient to navigate smoothly between different environments. So the data is stored in the source systems. Hospital records and the many first-line data will go to regional vaults like Vitalink, BruSafe and others. So there will never be a data stream. That's why we call it Personal Health Viewer. It will be seen, but it will not be sent. This was indeed discussed with the Länder, both through the IKW eHealth and through the various ad hoc consultation structures. There was also feedback from demonstrations. There is now also a pilot group of simulations, chaired by a representative of the patient association. We'll see what children's diseases are left. A usefulness study is also under way to determine which process can best be followed between the different care providers. The results of this study will be evaluated in the following months in consultation with the patient platforms. The elements will be incorporated into the Personal Health Viewer. It is good to do a lot of simulations, because we now know that a lot of childhood diseases can occur. The patient can review his own results, but they are not removed from the hub in which they are stored. That's important to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u22	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u23	Madam President, Minister, since 2010, there has been a compensation fund for medical errors. It allows victims to be compensated without having to prove the physician's guilt. However, this fund is only available to victims of abnormal and serious damage suffered as of 2 April 2010. Damage is considered to be sufficiently serious when it fulfils one of the gravity criteria referred to in article 5 of the Law on Compensation for Damage Resulting from Health Care. I list them: a permanent disability of 25% or more, a temporary incapacity for work of at least 6 consecutive months or 6 non-consecutive months over a period of 12 months, particularly serious disorders, including economic ones, in the conditions of the patient's existence or the death of the patient. As a result, victims of medical errors prior to April 2, 2010, sometimes still struggle today to see their damage recognized. The press recently reported the case of parents who were victims of their baby's involuntary homicide because of a lack of foresight on the part of their hospital medical staff. After significant blood loss, the mother went to the hospital where she was asked to go home, without taking the trouble of ausculting her. The next day, we finally agreed to hospitalize him, but still without calling a doctor. The harm was already done: the baby had died because of premature detachment of the placenta which was not taken care of in time. This case, which has been under investigation since 2009, has since passed into the hands of four different investigating judges, from Tournai to Charleroi, with considerable procedural delays. Each time, the references in the file have been changed. Although the expertise carried out by the doctors appointed by the courts has established the responsibility of the hospital, no compensation has yet been paid. According to the ASBL Medical Errors, this case is indicative of a slow pace in both civil and criminal proceedings. This slow pace is due to the congestion of the courts and the appointment of experts. The ASBL therefore often suggests mediation to victims of medical errors. While this solution may be satisfactory in some cases, it is not satisfactory in the event that the hospital disclaims any liability. Therefore, Minister, can you tell me how many files have been filed with the Medical Accidents Fund in recent years? How long have they been treated? How many of them have resulted in compensation? Are you considering a relaxation of the conditions of compensation? I am thinking in particular of the minimum disability of 25%. Finally, is there a solution in terms of compensation for those who were victims of medical errors before 2 April 2010 and who fail to win the case through the courts?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u24	Madam President, Madam Minister, I will remain in line with the problem raised by Mrs Caprasse and on which my group has had the opportunity to come back on several occasions. A few weeks ago, several experts rang the alarm in the press. Indeed, it seems that the Fund is simply not working. Patients must wait months, sometimes even years, before obtaining any decision or compensation. The files which are now the subject of expertise were returned in 2014. In addition, file managers would often have no medical knowledge and would not be informed of current procedures. Minister, can you tell us more about the number of files that have been filed with the Fund since 2013? Furthermore, can you tell us how many decisions have been taken and how many compensations have been paid since the Fund was established? How much is that? To remedy the Fund's difficult functioning, you felt that recruitment was necessary. The hiring of experts, doctors and lawyers seems difficult, particularly because of unattractive remuneration conditions. Do you confirm that? If so, how can this be addressed? Has staff been hired recently? With what profile? Finally, as a result of the information in the press, you have announced that you want to treat the files differently. Could you explain how you intend to act and tell us if you are considering legislative amendments in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u25	Madam Minister, you have already received questions from Mr Van Peel on this subject. You have given very comprehensive answers on the reasons for the delays in the fund. However, several experts in the media explain that this explanation is not satisfactory or incorrect. They refer to internal problems or problems in the internal functioning of the fund, which would involve late payments as well as the distribution of work between the various experts. In addition, file managers would often have no or insufficient medical knowledge and are not aware of all procedures. In short, as my fellow Members have said, the slow operation of the fund is still a continuing problem. Madam Secretary, are you aware of these problems? If so, what measures do you intend to take to address these problems? Will you investigate these problems if you are not already aware of them? What are your plans in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u26	At the committee meeting on January 10, 2018, I answered a series of questions concerning the operation of the Medical Accidents Fund. The questions were posed by Ms. Van Peel, Ms. Cassart-Mailleux and Mr. Flahaux. I provide you with additional information on the answers provided earlier. The number of new applications submitted since the adoption of the Act of 2 April 2010 ranges from 11 in 2010 to 507 in 2017. I will give you the figures for the report. As far as deadlines are concerned, this varies from one file to another because many parameters are relevant. Defining a delay cannot therefore translate a correct picture of reality. Statistics on the Medical Accident Fund can also be found in the annual report published on the INAMI website. The number of cases that resulted in compensation as at 31 December 2017 is 95 in capital and 5 in an annuity. In capital, we reach EUR 12,295 million and, at the level of annuities, EUR 27,000. There is indeed a lack of doctors experts in the staff framework of the fund, Mrs Dedry. As far as the master plan is concerned, the framework is almost completed. The fund makes every effort to complete the pool of experts day after day. There are still recruitments in progress, also in cooperation with Selor, but you know that this is not always fast, and the RIZIV. Attracting experts is not just a challenge for the Medical Accidents Fund, which is the case for the whole government. We are experiencing this throughout the public administration. This is also due to the wage conditions associated with job descriptions and the profiles set out in the Staff Regulations. We are not at all interesting as an employer for certain profiles and also offer no attractive remuneration. We are aware that the operation of the Medical Accident Fund is not optimal and we are putting in place different procedures adapted within the current framework of the Act to improve it. This is why it has been decided to pay more attention to patient support and mediation. How? By entrusting, in this context, a mission to the organisations representing patients who have experience in this field and sufficient experience in accompanying the victims of medical accidents. For what missions? For the individual support to victims of medical accidents and their families and for the support of such persons in connection with the work of the Fund. The aim will also be to inform victims and to accompany them in their attempt to find an amicable arrangement in case of insufficient indication of medical responsibilities, but also to open the dialogue between victims, care providers and insurance companies. In addition, it was decided to use another approach in the processing of cases. The approach will be differentiated according to whether or not the prescribed legal threshold for the rate of severity of the damage will be met. Cases involving damage which do not meet the legal thresholds of gravity and which probably do not qualify for compensation from the Medical Accidents Fund will be treated in a simplified manner. We also have many complaints in the field of orthodontics, for example. It is not always people with permanent damage, but sometimes they do not agree with the aesthetic end result of certain orthodontic treatments. They still feel like a victim and submit a file. People with really heavy séquelle are opposed to the fact that they think there has been a medical error. We will make a difference between the small, simpler cases and those with severe consequences. Almost half of the files report damage below this threshold. In these cases, simplification will be introduced. An attempt will be made to find a negotiated solution by involving caregivers earlier in the process. The aim is to avoid lengthy and costly procedures for limited damage that will never result in compensation from the Fund. At the same time, priority will be given to files with serious damage. This should make it easier and faster to process the files that have been introduced. With regard to the DAMO project (Dossier Accidents Médicaux/Medische Ongevallen), various actions are also undertaken, such as the inventory, sorting and digitisation of scanned documents and documents available on digital portals, so that doctors can focus on their work of expertise. To this end, collaborators were recruited to carry out this task in lieu of doctors. All this used to happen on paper, with reports from the treating physicians. Then each expert had to copy all those reports separately. Now it will be done electronically. We ended up there in the 21st century. The receipt and inventory of records, including medical records, will be done electronically. The Order of Physicians has already been contacted within this framework and we are currently in the final phase of defining a standard KMER. Caregivers and care institutions will be asked to properly inventory medical records, download them and return them automatically - for example to external experts so that the necessary information should no longer be provided on paper. It's sometimes thick files that need to be copied and forwarded. It will also allow direct consultation of information in hospital medical records. To answer Ms.Caprasse's question about the victims of medical errors before 2010, as the Fund was voted in 2010, they must follow the judicial path. There's no alternative. As for the length of court proceedings, this falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice. I've known procedures that lasted up to 20 years. This is obviously the reason why this fund was created in 2010. We all remember the discussions. The way of working was obviously complicated and required a lot of paperwork. Accepting doctors and then having them take hundreds of copies is not in accordance with their duties. They need to be able to study a file, gather all the elements and draw a conclusion. One cannot hire doctors to spend hours on a copier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u27	Minister, you have answered many questions in a specific way. It is true that this particular case prior to 2010 is challenging. I have already asked Minister Geens about this specific case. He sent me back to you. The two ministers look back at each other. In such cases, would there not be a way to find a system? Could we think about how Health and Justice can work together to solve such serious problems? A hospital doesn't recognize any fault following the death of a baby. The mother has already spent more than 30,000 euros in court fees. Will she ever have the hope of being reimbursed for all that she has spent? For now, she's not grieving. This woman is completely uncharted. I think there are cases where there should still be some provision, even if the Fund is involved in post-2010 cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u28	Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. The good news is, you're aware of the problem. You express it and I thank you for it. While I did note the figures, in 2017, there were 507 applications; 95 files were closed in capital and 5 in an annuity. This nevertheless clearly highlights the differential in favour of the victims. You set up the accompaniment by the patient associations. This is in line with the fact that we have always called for assistance from victims, who must not systematically prove that they have been victims. However, the practical organisation of the management of these files remains very concrete and material. On the one hand, it is said that qualified personnel are needed. On the other hand, it is said that qualified personnel are not there to make photocopies. I agree. At some point, however, it is still necessary to implement professional conditions that are sufficiently attractive to have doctors to treat. There are people who are victims, who demand a just man, and who are waiting. That seems unacceptable to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u29	Madam Secretary, you give some examples of how you can solve a few problems. You are talking about more digitalisation, modernisation, a different approach, the difference between small-effect dossiers and large-effect dossiers. Those are some measures, but as you yourself say, it is almost impossible to find and keep doctors because the status is not attractive and they can earn more elsewhere. There is really only one conclusion to be drawn, namely that it is fundamentally unsolved and that there are clearly insufficient resources. I remember the discussions on the Patients' Rights Act. This fund has been a kind of profusion not to get into American situations, but the fund will inevitably need more resources or it will never work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u30	It's not about the resources. The fund has its resources. The framework is not being filled in. The resources are there. I had that problem at the Foreign Office when I had to recruit doctors. In general, doctors in the government are paid worse than in the private sector. That's it. If the working conditions don't compensate a little, they're gone. We recruit them, and if they can, they're either gone or they refuse to come. This is a general problem in the government. In view of the demographic situation of RIZIV and other services, I think we will have a problem there, but that is the question of how much the experts want to pay. This applies not only to doctors, but also to ICTs, where there is fierce competition with the private sector and so on. Many specialized functions do not benefit from the tariffs that apply not only to the federal government, but also in Flanders and Wallonia. That is a bigger debate than just that on the resources of the Medical Accidents Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u31	Madam President, Minister, as you know, we are in favour of a general third party payment scheme. We submitted a legislative proposal to that effect in January 2015. You always said that you wanted to wait for the evaluation of the compulsory third-party payment scheme for persons with increased benefits before taking any further decisions on this matter. To be honest, we had hoped to be able to look at this evaluation last year in order to continue a number of discussions. In the meantime, it has been found that the evaluation will be available in the first half of this year. Is that right? When will she be available? Do you intend, on the basis of this evaluation, to take decisions on the extension of the third-payer scheme?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u32	Madam President, Mrs Jiroflée, in the administrative agreement with the RIZIV, it has indeed been stated that an evaluation of the compulsory social third party payment scheme will be carried out by the general practitioners for persons who benefit from the increased insurance provision. Article 11 of the Administrative Agreement states that the RIZIV undertakes to evaluate the measures. Article 53 of the ZIV Act provides for an obligation on general practitioners to apply a third-payer scheme for certain medical benefits granted to beneficiaries of the increased insurance. The law provides for the possibility of extending it to other categories of social insured persons. For this purpose, the evaluation of this mandatory third-payer rule will be used. The measure of the compulsory social third-payer scheme started in October 2015. The Administrative Agreement specifies that by the end of 2017 an evaluation will be carried out with a note to be submitted to the Insurance Committee of the Medical Services of the RIZIV. I have been informed that this evaluation report is currently being finalised and will shortly be brought to the attention of the Insurance Committee. What decisions or measures will then be necessary will depend on the advice I will receive from the Insurance Committee and on the elements in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u33	Madam Secretary, I think that's only logical. However, the report would be ready by the end of 2017. This is also the case in the administrative agreement. Then it turned out to be in the first half of this year, and now you say it will be soon. Even if I ask my question elsewhere, I get a vague answer. I am therefore curious when we will see the report. If it lasts another month, I'll ask my question again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u34	Madam Minister, I will confine myself to the question I asked you, which is similar to the one addressed to the Minister of the Interior. Halfway 2016 our assistance zone Fluvia received speakers from the FPS Public Health. According to the employees of your ministry, urgent medical care would be given a new operation and funding from 2017. The fire zones have been waiting for a new arrangement for two years. The current system is no longer or is difficult to operate for the aid areas. Because of the savings in the different zones, it sometimes takes a long, very long time before an ambulance arrives. At the beginning of February 2017, I asked a question about this. You said at the time that it was a very big reform and that you and the Minister of the Interior would free up the necessary resources for it. I have the following questions. First of all, what is the state of play in that file today? Secondly, how much additional resources have been made available for 2018? Do you think that these resources are sufficient to implement the promised reform this year? Thirdly, how many ambulances have been approved today and therefore subsidised? Has any decision been taken on this number in the future? If so, how many ambulances are we talking about? Is there going to be or is there going to be a change in the conditions of recognition? Fourthly, how will funding be provided in the new proposal? What influence will this have on the municipalities, on the relief zones and on the patients? Finally, can you explain the new approach? What guaranteed driving times do you have in mind in this new operation? What guarantees do you have that these driving times will actually be met? How can you guarantee it? Will you install controls?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u35	Madam President, Mr Top, at the thematic Council of Ministers on 13 and 14 May 2017, I brought the issue of reform of urgent medical assistance services to the government's agenda. An additional annual budget of 35 million was made available for this reform. I have to add that in this legislature, under the current government, the amount of urgent medical aid has tripled. Previously, urgent medical assistance was underfunded. You ask whether the current budgets are sufficient. Well, it is true that I had asked for more money for that dossier, about 100 million, in order to be able to carry out everything that falls within the scope of the larger reform. However, the current budget is not insignificant and, as I have just said, I had already received more budget. With this important budget, I am setting up a reform that can best form the basis for a later, even wider reform. That is why, immediately after the Council of Ministers, I identified priorities together with my administration. These priorities were further developed in reform pathways. The result of this work, in the note we referred to as '35 million', was submitted for advice to the National Council for Urgent Medical Assistance. This is a multidisciplinary council that includes all partners within urgent medical care. In view of the importance of this reform and its financial component, the Board has been able to extend its office to the insurance institutions and the RIZIV on that dossier. The enlarged Bureau of the Council worked on a note which was welcomed in the plenary session of the Council. Armed with these opinions, I have therefore instructed the administration to operationalise this note. At the end of 2017, each Provincial Emergency Medical Assistance Commission was asked to launch a consultation to take a picture of the organisation of this DGH within the province and also to identify potential improvement projects. In 2018, the patient bill will also be made readable and transparent, and the new permanent grant for the ambulance services will also be introduced. If they do not have to leave now, they will not be paid. This permanent grant will help to better finance the largest costs, in particular personnel costs. For this reason, the permanence grant will follow the personnel costs through a points system. For example, organizing permanence during the day is cheaper than during the night and at the weekend, or organizing permanence on a pitch is more expensive than on a callable watch. To this end, we will amend an KB grant and an MB grant. In 2019, the flat-rate billing will be introduced and the inequality that has existed for fifty years within the billing process will be eliminated. You have already asked questions about this. If you have to wait longer for an ambulance because you have to go further, you have to pay much more for the intervention. That is also the problem in Wallonia in very rural areas. All citizens will simply pay a flat-rate cost for the intervention. For the first time since 1964, a service level will also be introduced for this urgent medical treatment. This means that 90% of the interventions must be with the victim within 15 minutes. I do not dare to show you the current map, but I can tell you that this is certainly not the case at the moment. You asked about how many ambulances we were talking about. In 2017, 422 ambulance rooms were provided. However, not all 422 are permanently available on their site. This extends the start-up time of these ambulances, either because the ambulance driver has to come from home to the barracks first, or because the driver of the ambulance has to pick up the colleague first. Because of this longer start-up time, we need more ambulances to achieve that service level. If all ambulances were ready to leave their station, i.e. with ambulances on the pitch, the number of rooms needed could theoretically fall to 350. With 350 departures we can not only guarantee the service level agreement, but also guarantee that 98% of the interventions will be made within twenty minutes. Of course, our target remains 100 %. For me, three hundred and fifty is no target as such. I aim to increase the number of ambulances with permanence at the site. This aim is a source of a win-win situation; the guarantee of the SLA is improved and the number of departures to be organized decreases, reducing staff pressure and financial pressure in the ambulance services and increasing the subsidy amount per departure because the envelope can be divided into a smaller number. In order to monitor and monitor all this, the reform also sets out a monitoring path. On the basis of the registration of the intervention data we receive from the auxiliary centres, a registration that will be up to computerized within the auxiliary centres, the guarantee of the service level agreement will be followed. This follow-up, the supervision by medical dispatching of the 112 emergency number and inspections on the ground will therefore form the basis for the policy improvement of this system. I understand very well that there are many changes in the short term, but they are needed. I know there's some concern about the ambulance services. Some people prefer to be at home on watch rather than in the barracks, but if they have to be less on watch, better paid and better service, I think it will be all well and good. It is our duty, not only to the citizens who need an ambulance, but also to the sector that has demanded a thorough reform after 50 years of underpayment and underfinancing. So we have had a lot of discussions with this complicated sector. I think it's a good thing if we can do those steps already. It will be necessary to build on this after 2019. I will certainly keep the plan ready, but we can already take important steps, both for the citizen with the lump sum and better driving time, and for the people working in the sector, with better remuneration and the end of the underfunding, with tombolalets going from door to door.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u36	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. Your concern is mine, too. I have indeed asked the question to keep an eye on the permanence and quality of service, because I am concerned about the signals I get from my and other zones. There is concern because there is a hesitation in investing, for example, in order to purchase new material, because there is still no clarity about future financing. I therefore urge you to clarify quickly so that this quality assistance to the citizens is guaranteed. I am also looking forward to the overall plan that you are putting forward so that I can check that everything is correct. Let me give you an example of what I want to find out, along with the figures I got from my zone. The employees of the zone have calculated it and, for what it is worth, they claim that the shift of resources amounts to a reduction. You said that the flat-rate contribution for the ambulances was increased. Your plea for 35 million to be distributed on a flat-rate basis among the ambulances is an increase, which has already tripled. On the other hand, however, this would be recovered by lower revenues through the RIZIV and the reimbursement. There is therefore a risk that the zones or those operating the ambulances will have no additional income. I'll follow this up with the zone. Madam Secretary, you also mentioned a KB and a ministerial decision on the amendments. Can you tell me when that will come?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u37	As soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u38	The secretariat of the National Environmental Health Action Plan of the FPS Public Health had indicated that fourteen e-modules would be drawn up on various themes such as hormone disruptors and multi-exposure, both in Dutch and French. They would be available for free on the website of the FPS Public Health, where everyone could read them, but they would be specifically designed for healthcare professionals. Madam Secretary, how will the Public Health Office implement those modules, so that they are truly actively assimilated?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u39	Mrs Van Camp, the EH module project is indeed aimed at the creation and dissemination of a series of modules for continuing training in so-called medical environmental science. This will be done in the form of e-learning with or without guidance. The project includes fourteen modules, including one on substances with hormone disrupting properties. The EH module is actually about the development of the student, whether he is a doctor or another health professional. The aim is to help care providers to evolve towards a more complex understanding and treatment of diseases by taking into account all environmental factors that may be involved in a particular pathology. The modules will use didactic techniques that we know from other online courses, namely multiplechoice questions, quizzes, collaborations, personalized feedback, interactive films and other means. It will also be possible to use pedagogues with expertise in new technologies in order to make modules as interactive as possible. It is also intended that the modules can be used in the local quality groups of doctors and general practitioners, thereby promoting the sharing of experience between participants. The modules will also give entitlement to points for the accreditation of the general practitioner.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u40	Madam Secretary, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u41	Minister, this alpha-1 deficiency disease is a hereditary lung disease in which a lung protection agent is not sufficiently produced. Four out of ten thousand people are affected. In severe forms, symptoms resemble those of emphysema. It is therefore very disabling for the patients concerned. The current treatment with human plasma extract is reimbursed in France, Germany and the Netherlands, but is not in Belgium. Only patients diagnosed before July 2010 receive this treatment. Minister, apparently the Behring and Grifols companies produce these treatments. Have they applied for reimbursement for this treatment? If so, what is the status of the case? If the refund is refused, what are the reasons for it? What are your plans to put in place to help and care for people with this terrible disease and, in particular, people diagnosed after July 2010 or who will be diagnosed in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u42	Ms Gerkens, Behring submitted a refund application for the pharmaceutical specialty Respreeza to the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products on 5 July 2017. When I have the Commission's final proposal for the reimbursement of medicinal products at the end of the procedure, I will take a decision on the reimbursement of this medicinal product. To date, no other firm has submitted a claim file for a drug indicated in the treatment of alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u43	Madam Minister, I hope that the opinion will be delivered quickly, so that the people concerned know what to do about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u44	Question No 22924 by Mrs Nathalie Muylle is transformed into a written question. Question No 22929 by Mrs Renate Hufkens is postponed. The same applies to Question No 22937 by Mr Daniel Senesael. Question No 22942 by Mrs Isabelle Galant is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u45	In case of joint problems due to cartilage lesions, patients are sometimes advised to use gel injections. They're not being repaid at the moment. The non-repayment of therapy is not always the result of, for example, a policy choice based on a negative cost-effectiveness study at the CTG or at the Commission Meeting Implants; this may also be due to the fact that a firm has not applied. Why aren't gel injections refunded?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u46	There are several preparations for intraarticular administration based on hyaluronic acid on the market. In popular terms, this is indeed called gel injections. They are used for the treatment of cartilage lesions, mainly in the knee. Some of them bear the CE marking of medical devices, while some others are or were registered as medicinal products. No product in the category Medical Devices has ever been refunded by the RIZIV. Since 2002, reimbursement of recoverable medicinal products from that category has been discontinued. After all, the effectiveness of the products is not established. Among other things, the scientific website UpToDate clearly states the following. "Derivatives of hyaluronic acid have been used for the treatment of patients with osteoarthritis, but there is a lick of robust evidence demonstrating benefit." In fact, there are several short-term adverse effects of intra-articular hyaluronate injections. I can give you the reference to this. This is from a publication by Neal Roberts Jr. from 2018. The Committee on Implants and Invasive Medical Devices has not yet received any official applications for compensation for such products. For the then Technical Council only one file for implants was submitted at that time. This was done from 4 July 2013 and then a negative opinion was given, because there was insufficient scientific evidence that the therapy had clinically significant benefits compared to other therapies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u47	Thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u48	Question No 22989 by Mrs Ben Hamou is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u49	Only Mrs Dedry is present to ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u50	Madam President, Minister, my questions date from January, but they are still topical. In January there was a call from the Dutch Association for Paediatrics for a ban on the sale of energy drinks to young people under the age of 18. Flemish pediatricians and the Flemish Society for Paediatrics also expressed their concerns. The consequences of energy drinks are clear. They contain too much caffeine and sugar and cause restlessness, cardiac arrhythmias, and also have long-term health effects. They are also dangerous when they are drunk in combination with alcohol, which often happens. In exceptional cases, there are also young people who do not know that they have heart disease, and for them these drinks are very dangerous, sometimes with death. A Canadian study on the negative effects of energy drinks was also published during the same period, which also highlighted a number of serious adverse effects of energy drinks on health, such as an accelerated heart rate, headache, chest pain, etc. Not all the parties mentioned are in favour of a ban, but they all advocate stricter measures, such as a ban on the sale of large quantities or at least clear warning stickers on the products. Mr Nollet asked you a written question earlier. You replied that, in the absence of measures at European level and if additional action is needed to protect public health, it could be chosen to set limits for the use of caffeine in other foodstuffs through national legislation, in addition to the existing limit of caffeine in beverages. Madam Minister, do you think that the measures at European level are sufficient? Why is that, or why not? If so, what measures were implemented at European level during this period of government? Will you take any additional measures? If you consider that the measures are insufficient, will you take measures yourself? After all, I thought I could derive that from your reply to Mr Nollet. Secondly, are you in favour or opposed of the above measures, so be stricter but also, for example, prohibit them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u51	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, to give you an idea, the Belgian Antitoxin Centre received eleven calls in 2016 and in 2017 on incidents related to energy drinks in children. For children five years of age or younger, this was an occasional intake. The amounts taken were not disturbing. The antitoxin center is currently receiving approximately 145 calls a day. The centre therefore concluded that there was little contact for problems related to the consumption of these energy drinks by children. At Belgian level, the caffeine content of these energy drinks is limited to 220 mg per litre to reduce the risks of a possible over-consumption. In the case of plant extracts with caffeine, this limit should also be taken into account. In addition, the European Regulation No. 1169/2011 on the provision of food information to consumers states that for energy drinks of more than 150 mg per litre, the caffeine content and the warning should be indicated on the label as follows: "High caffeine content, not recommended for children and women who are pregnant or breast-feeding'. The vitamin content is regulated by the Royal Decree of 3 March 1992 on the marketing of nutrients and other foods to which nutrients were added. For taurine, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) issued a specific opinion on this ingredient in energy drinks in 2017. It concluded that taurine does not present a risk in the regular consumption of energy drinks. The consumption data of caffeine from the last food consumption surveys of 2014 show that for 0.04 % of children and 0.08 % of adolescents the maximum recommended limit of EFSA is exceeded. This study also shows that the contribution of caffeine via energy drinks is not as important as one would expect. It is the traditional soft drinks that make the greatest contribution. According to them, the current limit for caffeine in energy drinks adequately protects the consumer. Existing European and national legislation ensures a high level of consumer safety. Therefore, I do not intend to take any prohibition measures or other measures in relation to the sale of such products. As for all foods, excessive consumption is the problem with that kind of product. Moderate or rather no consumption is best to avoid that risk. There was a question put by Mrs Fonck, which I would like to answer anyway. She referred to a specific study of Test Purchase. However, we are not aware of this study. Maybe that was an article and not a study, but the figures from the latest food consumption survey teach us that 62.6 % of 14- to 17-year-olds say they've never had anything like it, 26.3 % say they do it less than once a week, 3.3 % once a week, 5.2 % two to four times a week and 0.7 % more than that. This food consumption survey dates back to 2015. The next poll will show whether the numbers are rising. As I have already said, the European Regulation No. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ It also states that the warning must be on it. The Directives are harmonised at European level. I have no intention of changing that at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u52	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u53	Madam President, Minister, spinal amyotrophy is a rare neuromuscular disease characterized by progressive loss of motor function. They are very disabling and cause motor difficulties. In the most severe cases, they lead to paralysis and even death. Patients with this disease and their families had until very recently had little or no hope of being treated. But advances in medical research and clinical testing have led to the production of an effective drug. In June 2017, the European Medicines Agency approved Spinraza as the first treatment for spinal amyotrophy. This medicine allows the production of the "survival motor neuron" protein. Clinical examinations show a marked improvement in motor functions, as had never been observed during the natural process of disease progression. Progress seems important. In addition, it would appear that the dossier has already been introduced at the level of the Commission for the Refund of Medicinal Products (CRM). Minister, can you provide an update on this matter? Has the CRM already issued a notice? If so, what are the terms of reimbursement envisaged? Will all SMA patients be considered or, on the contrary, could restrictions be considered, for example, depending on the stage of the disease? If not, can you specify the deadlines that would allow us to have more information?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u54	Madam President, Mr Thiéry, in Belgium, admission to the list of reimbursable proprietary medicinal products may only be made if the applicant has applied for admission to the medicinal product concerned. In this case, on 12 January 2018, Biogen submitted a refund application for the pharmaceutical speciality Spinraza to the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products. The dossier is therefore currently being evaluated by the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products. Since the procedure is confidential, unfortunately I cannot give you any further information on the outcome of this case. It is up to the CRM to explain its choice, either positive or negative, in the notice to be given.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u55	Minister, thank you for that answer. I understand that the procedure is confidential. Would we, by any chance, already have an idea of the timing of the procedure, to know more or less when we will have an answer? I hear your willingness to communicate as soon as we have more information. I imagine that reference will be made to the level of reimbursement of this medicine in other European countries. We have found that in some other countries there is, depending on the level of the disease, a refund or not. Some countries reimburse all three levels of the disease, while others only reimburse levels 1 and 2. I think it would be interesting to have this discussion with the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u56	I am sure that the Committee on Reimbursement of Medicinal Products takes account of the arrangements in force for this medicinal product in neighbouring countries. On the timing, I have to tell you that depends. Sometimes it's a few weeks, sometimes months. This depends not only on the complexity of the case but also on the studies that have been carried out, on the decisions that have been taken in neighbouring countries. Like I said, I can't tell them to go faster. They are quite independent in their conclusions, but also, and I regret it a little, in their timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u57	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u58	Madam President, I refer to a press release by the KCE, which expressed its concern about the rapid rise, safety and effectiveness of these 3D-printed implants. According to the KCE, there is no convincing evidence that these 3D-printed implants are safe and effective as classic products. It would also not save our health care. More importantly, the KCE has also expressed doubts about the benefits for the patient. It is unclear whether patients are always aware of the financial consequences, of the evidence-based or scientific uncertainty of the tool, and especially of the existence of reimbursed tariffs and initiatives. The CCE has issued a number of opinions and recommendations. For example, new 3D high risk implants should be limited to specialised centres. In another recommendation, the RIZIV would still be able to repay the safe 3D tools, the added value of which has not yet been demonstrated, but at the same amount, and not above the existing conventional alternatives. If there is no classic alternative, the RIZIV can decide on a case-by-case basis whether to repay it. This is also a recommendation. A surgeon must always inform a patient particularly well................................................................................................................................................................... Finally, cooperation between public administrations is needed to support and encourage research. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Do you agree? Do you agree with the insights submitted by the CCE? Can you agree with the recommendations made by the KCE? Will you take them? In what way will you do that? What timing will you use?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u59	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, I read here that children's baths also pose a danger to health. I was just telling my associate that it's now waiting for questions about the bath duckies. The report of the Knowledge Centre has already been submitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u60	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u61	The report of the Knowledge Centre on the responsible use of those high-risk medical devices contains recommendations that are relevant and valuable for patient safety. The recommendations will be carefully examined by my administration, in order to state that we can keep this 3D technology under sustainable control in our health care and with guarantees of patient safety. Since the technology in question is evolving rapidly, it is obviously the intention to move forward in this area. I would like to stress that the information given to patients by their doctors on the choice of medical devices, as well as on the risks associated with that choice, and the possible alternatives and risks associated with them, is also part of the explanation they should receive from doctor-patients in the context of their relationship of trust. In the meantime, I would like to inform you that the relevant technology has been incorporated into the current medical device framework. To this end, the Law of 15 December 2013 introduces the concept of the implant card, which forms the basis of the Central Tracing Register (CTR). That database is now fed by 13 hospitals, although its use is not yet mandatory. An implementing act creating the legal basis to introduce that obligation still needs to be published. The CTR also contains tools for anonymising data, to cross-check them with other databases, for example in the context of epidemiological studies. There are also a number of ongoing discussions between my services at the pharmaceutical agency (FAGG) and the RIZIV on the compatibility of their computer systems and the provision of the electronic data at their disposal. In addition, the FAGG is also an active participant in the European discussions on the implementation of new regulations, such as Regulations Nos 745/2017 and 746/2017 on in vitro diagnostic medical devices and medical devices, the so-called "recast'. The Agency also addresses the challenges posed by custom 3D medical devices. Finally, the requirements relating to medical devices made in a hospital are also part of the Agency's concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u62	I do not hear in your reply that you share the concerns of the KCE and wish to take their recommendations into account. Did I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u63	I said that the report of the KCE contains recommendations that are relevant and valuable for patient safety. They are carefully examined and taken into account in the adjustments the administrations have to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u64	Madam Minister, in February 2017, I had written question No. 1415. The answers were fairly general, but you would ask the Order of Doctors to provide me with some more data. You also asked the Order for proposals to modernise its procedures. There was no concrete timetable in that answer, whereas the question is now more than a year old. Can you give me a concrete timetable for the roll-out of the measures you mentioned in reply to my parliamentary question a year ago?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u65	Mrs. Dedry, I have indeed answered, but additional information from the Order was not available. You submitted your written question on 21 February and the answer was published on 31 March. We did not have the data within that time limit. I ask my administration to always reply as quickly as possible, which is not so easy given the abundance of both written and oral questions. However, I have no authority over the Order of Doctors; I do not have any hierarchical authority to request data. I don't need to remind you that this Order is some kind of temple. In the meantime, the Bureau of the National Council of the Order has provided me with statistics for the last five years on all the decisions that come under the expertises. I will give you this statistics on paper, because I will not read it all here. You will have to bear in mind that these statistics could not be further broken down. Often only the number 1, 3 or 2 is mentioned; it is also not always possible to split them out. The statistics also include expertise on insurance files, among other things. Statistics for a period of five years teach us the following about sanctions: without effect, 18; no penalty, 1; offense, 1; a warning, 1; a suspension of eight days, 0. One suspension was imposed, but an appeal came in for an acquittal, because the doctor in question had died in the meantime. There was one two-month suspension. The total thus amounts to twenty-three and all in five years' time. A reform is currently under discussion with the Order of Doctors. One of the points is the increase in transparency and the creation of an easily accessible register for doctors' decisions. The decisions they have taken are part of that. We are quite advanced in that. Two weeks ago, I had a discussion on what we intend to do with the Order and there was a report on it. Of course it is about more; it is also about the possibility that patients can be heard and that evidence can be provided. I hope that we can reach a consensus, but I tell you that it is not easy to achieve rejuvenation, simplification or more participation for patients in such an old institution. We will continue to do our best to achieve that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u66	Madam Secretary, I think the word "temple," "monastery" or "closed convent" is well chosen. Indeed, this is very slow.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u67	I remember that proposals from the Order were announced in July 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u68	They have therefore already given several opinions. We have also had negotiations. I also attended a conference at the ULB, attended by nearly 300 doctors. I presented the outline of our reform. We called on the LUSS patient associations and the Vlaams Patientenplatform to formulate their proposals for patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u69	At present, therefore, no timetable can yet be given.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u70	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u71	To be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u72	Question No 23120 by Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u73	Madam President, Madam Minister, a practical example was a complaint concerning an invoice from the UZ in Jette, and I am sure all of his similar messages are not exclusive to this institution. As a result of this complaint, I just crawled into the pen. Indeed, they were people who left the hospital before 2:00 p.m. but were still charged a day of lying, which should not be allowed. It may be over by now, but there was a procedural battle between the sickness funds and the Brussels University of Applied Sciences about the invoicing. After all, this way the number of days lying up is increased, as well as the calculated supplements. However, there is a recent letter from the RIZIV, of which I have provided you with the reference, which clearly states that room supplements may not be charged for days that are not billed as a lying day. The arguments on which Brussels hospitals base themselves seem very lean, but in the meantime they charge the patients hundreds of euros extra. That is why I would have liked to know what your position is on the matter. Do you follow the letter?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u74	Madam President, Mr Vercammen, you know that there are certain invoicing practices in which hospitals unjustly charge a lay-by day if the patient is discharged from the hospital before 14:00. The billing rule introduced in 2013 changed the billing for patients who are admitted on their first day before 12:00 and can return home on their last day after 14:00. In that case, a number of things, namely withdrawal delays and the patient's personal share, will only become chargeable on the first day and not on the second day. For the sake of completeness, I would add that the billing of the room supplement, the forfait medicines per day and the fees may still be charged on the last day. So the supplement is, but the flat rate isn't. You say that the billing rules would not be properly invoiced, in other words that the billing rules would not be correctly applied. I'll be very clear. Each hospital must comply with the billing rules. No hospital should interpret it freely, not at its sole discretion, nor on the basis of its own financial advantage. It's hard enough for the individual patient to know all the rules. In case of suspicion of incorrect invoicing, he may apply to his sickness fund. After all, it is up to the sickness funds to verify hospital invoices for any errors. The hospital ombudsmen can also take on this role, but you know that patients are afraid to go to someone who is employed in the hospital. They therefore have a choice between the sickness fund or the ombudsmen's service, but they can also address both. If there is a genuine suspicion of fraud, a complaint may also be lodged with the Medical Evaluation and Control Service of the RIZIV, which may recover amounts unduly claimed and impose an administrative fine. We have also included this in Axis 3 of the pact with insurance institutions, in several action commitments, including Nos 24, 25 and 26, which determine the role of insurance institutions in checking the benefits in kind charged. An inventory of controls is requested a priori and a posteriori, and more extensive access to data and detailed reporting on the priorities, volumes and results of their controls are agreed. So we can act at different levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u75	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u76	Madam Secretary, through the Zebra Academy, I received critical questions about the mHealth project on telestroke medicine, assigned to the VUB. In order to assess whether or not these critical questions are justified, I should look at the agreement on this matter myself. Can you get it to me?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u77	Mrs Van Camp, I requested the agreement on the AP19 project and in-ambulance telestroke between RIZIV and UZ Brussels. I have no problem with you seeing it, but they forgot to put it in my folder today. Final performance evaluations were completed on 23 February. At present, all data, both the activity report and the financial reports, are collected. My services sent out a press release on 5 March. That press release is in my folder, but not the relevant agreement. We will deliver it to you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u78	I like to receive it digitally. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u79	We can send it to the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u80	Madam Secretary, I'll come back to VAC therapy. I have already asked you several questions about this. You said that VAC therapy can be applied perfectly by home care and that the necessary payments had been made since July 2017. But now I hear in the field that this would still not be right. Madam Secretary, what is the latest state of play on this dossier? When exactly will this be possible for home care?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u81	A pilot project on negative pressure therapy or VAC therapy at the patient's home will be launched this year. This project will need to clarify the course of application of negative pressure therapy in home care, the financial impact of this application and the way nurses, patients and their environment experience the use of this therapy. In the planned project, a thousand patients will be cared for at home with this negative pressure therapy. The parameters must be recorded: the duration of treatment, the care provided, the costs and experience of the patient and the nurse. These data are then processed by a scientific team to generate policy information. A conceptual note on this project has been developed by my policy cell after contact with nurses, hospitals, suppliers of equipment and health insurance funds. The RIZIV is now in the process of translating into concrete procedures and agreements. This will then be submitted to the Insurance Committee, which will eventually have to conclude the contracts. We are therefore far advanced in this respect, but the Insurance Committee must give the final consent to conclude these agreements. I know that this is not the case on the ground for everything. It is something new and one is not always going to apply it only to things that have been proven to work. We must be sure that it is applied to cases where there is evidence, not to everything. Then it will not produce any results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u82	Thank you. I hope this is settled soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u83	Madam Secretary, there's been a lot to do about cervical screening and HPV for a few years now. Numerous studies show the advantage or disadvantage of primary HPV screening and vaccination, among others. It is striking that most studies are based on results in the Netherlands. Don't we usually call the Netherlands guide country? In any case, it has already been shown that the figures on which they based themselves in the Netherlands to introduce a primary HPV screening were completely wrong. The prevalence of high risk HPV infections was estimated at 5%. That was way too low. New studies show that the prevalence in the Netherlands is close to 10%. This is also the value used in Belgium. Consequently, the budgets released in the Netherlands are insufficient, because the figures were not correct. Many women fall out of screening, because the years that had to be screened had to be increased. We must not make that mistake here. Another problem that I find very little in the studies, especially in the studies that are pro primary HPV testing, is that 14.7% of the new cases of invasive cervical cancer are HPV negative. So one in six women has a HPV-negative cervical cancer. In women over 55 years of age, this is even 30%. That's one in three. In their case, therefore, invasive cervical cancer will be completely missed by primary HPV screening or HPV screening. They'll slip through the meshes of the net. They will be unjustly reassured. They will develop an invasive tumor because they are HPV negative. For Flanders these are about 35 women a year who miss the spino. These are 35 women who, after the smears, get the message that they absolutely do not have to worry and only have to come back five years later. So we must contradict the fact that only primary HPV screening would avoid killing. We certainly need to consider the HPV negative tumors. They could potentially lead to 35 more deaths instead of less. I am not yet talking about any by-catches that might result from the present swab. Endometrium carcinomas are also HPV negative and are found very easily in a swab by an experienced screener. I have a number of questions for you, Madam Secretary, bearing that in mind. What is the current status of the potential switch to primary HPV screening? How do you see the future screening? The most important question is how to ensure that HPV negative tumors and possible by-catches are still detected quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u84	Mrs Capoen, the Cancer Centre of the Scientific Institute for Public Health has developed a number of scenarios for the conversion to the HPV test, taking into account the findings of KCE Reports 238 of the Knowledge Centre under the title "Which screening for cervical cancer?" A possible slope is to arrive at a schedule with a HPV screening test once every five years, whether or not supplemented by a cytological test at one time. The evidence for the thesis that cervical screening with HPV tests is more effective than cytology is based on randomised studies demonstrating a lower incidence of cervical cancer. Recent reports from the United States confirm that the additional protection with co-testing, which is a screening with thin layers of cytology and HPV, is low compared to HPV testing. This is a study by Schiffman in the Journal of the National Cancer Institute of 2017. In addition, as reported, it should be noted that there is no evidence of the protective effect of cytological screening on the incidence or mortality of endometrial cancer. So I believe you when you say that a trained screener can find out. So far, however, there have been no studies that support this, but that is taken into account. It is examined whether cytological tests can also contribute to the diagnosis of HPV negative patients. As I told you, there are some slopes. We haven't figured it out yet. There is still further testing to be done, more and more evidentity to be sought. After all, this will stir up some dust again. Some people have a regular cytological examination done. There are also people who do far too little research. Despite the actions already taken, this does not appear to be such a popular screening study.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u85	Madam Secretary, you're referring to the KCE report. I have read that completely, you believe it or not, from front to back, in English and the summary in Dutch. The problem with that report is that it actually compares apples with pears. At some point one will compare studies that still work with traditional conventional smears and nobody in this country still works with conventional smears. We have long switched to liquid-based monolayers. As far as the by-catch of endometrium is concerned, there is no evidence that this results in less invasive tumours. It is possible to detect endometrial cells at an earlier stage and this may be a sign on the wall that further research is needed. This is not the right test to detect endometrial tumours, but in some cases it may ring a bell. For this reason, the test can be useful. I am not in favour of mere HPV screening, just because then one in six HPV negative tumors is missed. There is still something to be said about co-screening, although studies on this need to be carried out in such a way as to ensure full clarity. I would just like to refer to the Netherlands. There the situation is currently so complex that patients no longer come because they do not know whether or not they have already had HPV control. Nor do they know whether they should come back after five, six or ten years. Apparently, the women are confused and just don't show up anymore. This is, of course, what we absolutely do not want. It is evident that the most invasive tumours are found in women who have never been screened or have not been screened for more than ten years. I think it is important to note that we will find more tumors if more women are screened. Whether they will be HPV positive or negative seems less important to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u86	Question No 23295 by Mr Michel de Lamotte is postponed. In this connection, we decided in committee to take stock of the Dieselgate dossier with the various ministers concerned. Contact will be made with you, Madam Minister, and Mrs Marghem. Questions Nos 23306 and 23307 by Catherine Fonck are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u87	Madam President, Madam Minister, during the presentation and discussion of your policy paper, you announced that at the end of January there would be results of two investigations concerning the re-examination of the nomenclature. The first study is carried out by ULB, in collaboration with ten hospitals in Wallonia and Brussels. It examines two cases, namely the identification of practical costs and the relative weighting of time, complexity and risk in each medical discipline. The second study is carried out by UZ Leuven. Only Flemish hospitals are involved. The noble aim of this study is to unravel the very complicated BFM. I wish them every success. There's a person there who knows the matter by heart. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. The studies are over. Can you share its conclusions with us? What further steps will you take in the light of the conclusions of those studies? What are your plans for the reform of the nomenclature? Did you find inspiration in the studies? If so, which one? What is your timing for coming to Parliament with that? It's one of your announced major yards. I suppose there will be more than just an answer to an oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u88	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, indeed, the study on medical benefits has allowed the salary to function is required for 350 different acts of the nomenclature. These 350 acts are divided into about thirty disciplines, including more technical ones, such as medical imaging and clinical biology. The documents are selected in such a way that they represent more than half of the amounts spent on medical fees. For these medical records, the study has also allowed to give a score per discipline according to the intensity of the medical work. The methodology developed has been applied to a limited number of numbers of performances in order to increase transparency on costs and tariffs in the context of the future reform of the nomenclature and to distinguish between the part of the nomenclature relating to medical instruments costs and the personal part of the fees. The study has also shown that it is difficult to separate this from the yard on the reform of the financing of hospitalisation costs. Both reforms should be simultaneous. With regard to the BMF study, I would point out that this is being completed. It is reported that this should be done in the coming months. The administrations that are called upon to do so will be instructed to identify the short-term potential for active action and to make recommendations made in the study. It is also, of course, being examined whether the sample taken in the study on the BFM can be widened in order to obtain more results on all hospitals in Belgium. There is also the link to the management contract with the RIZIV. In this respect, Professors Annemans, Pirson and Leclercq presented their proposal, principles and methodology for the revaluation of the nomenclature to the National Committee on Doctors-Sickness Funds, the Medicomut. You know that one study was requested by one party and the other by the other. The medicomut agreement for 2018-2019 contains a point 4.6, which spells out the following, and I quote. Daar state "adaptation of the nomenclature: a research group will be responsible for drawing up proposals focusing on specific objectives such as the elimination of unreasonable income differences between general practitioners and specialist doctors and between specialist doctors themselves". There is also respect for the evolution of medical activity, the improvement of the transparency and legibility of the nomenclature, the introduction of incentives for cooperation and the provision of more quality. There's a plan of action in the making. This plan will draw on the expertise of the field. The aim of the project is to make progress in the financing of medical activities. It will be coordinated by the RIZIV and the FPS Public Health together. So our agenda runs parallel to that of the medicomut. The national agreement contains the following. "The National Commission on Doctors-Sickness Funds has taken note of the work of a number of university teams in the context of the possible revision of the nomenclature and invites a research group to draw up proposals aimed at the following objectives." I've already mentioned them. "In the first instance, the research group should present proposals on the standardisation and classification of the nomenclature of medical benefits in kind, the identification of the distinction between professional fees and operating costs in the main medical procedures. A concrete plan of action will be developed in the near future." You know that this has already been in the Medicomut agreement three or four times. It's the first time they've gotten this far. It was already stated in many other medicomut agreements that there was a need to recalibrate the nomenclature. Of course, we can only do so in consultation with the administrations and the professions concerned. However, I can tell you that this is not an easy delivery. In this dossier everyone immediately stands on their backs as long as one still speaks of the recalibrated version of the nomenclature, which some write with two letters.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. There was once a Belga message in which "re-enrichment" was written. I don't think that's the point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u89	Madam Minister, the question is whether it was a coincidence that the word was written with two letters, since then the word "rich" appears in it. I know it's a difficult delivery. I'm sure of it, just like you. You said that in the coming period, but when exactly will you come to Parliament with a proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u90	Of course I will come to Parliament with it. But first everything needs to be studied and comments made. I do not think that Parliament can suddenly bring this difficult delivery to a successful conclusion. If one can come up with a concrete proposal, I can work on it, but first the egg has to be laid. I'm in the spirit of Easter, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u91	But then no fipronilei.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u92	The next point is the attached questions No 23309 by Mrs Fonck and No 23579 by Mrs Dedry. Mrs Fonck's question is turned into a written question. May I consider your question to be also transformed into a written question, Ms. Dedry?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u93	Madam President, at Mrs Fonck's request, I would like to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u94	Of which act. Question No 23319 by Mrs Fonck is also transformed into a written question. Mrs Van Peel requested the postponement of her question No 23333. Questions Nos 236666, 23376 and 23378 by Mrs Galant are transformed into written questions. Ms. Ben Hamou requested the postponement of her question No. 23996.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u95	Emma is a digital platform where people can calculate their medical risks and then get personal advice. Dr. Emma collects all kinds of information, including analysis of the blood. Based on this information, Emma makes a risk profile and makes recommendations in the areas of nutrition, lifestyle, movement and even mental health. Emma was to be launched on 19 February, initially only in companies, where this will be tested. Later, the two founders also want to bring Emma to the general public and integrate the platform into primary health care. That news, along with the fact that you have already indicated that you are thinking of repaying the use of certain health apps, brings me to a number of concerns and questions. I wonder what happens when people have too much faith in a system, in Emma, but it can also be something or someone else? What if people draw wrong conclusions based on the tool? For example, they can go to the doctor too late or the tool can give wrong information. Who is liable in all these cases? What about privacy? Is it sufficiently guaranteed? If you talk about a refund of certain apps, will that be guaranteed? Is there no risk of abuse by employers or insurers? I know that it is said that this is not the intention, but I am afraid to put my hand in the fire for that. What are your specific plans for such modernisations? Let's be clear, I'm not against that a priori. I just think that many conditions must be met in order to be able to use it safely, both in terms of public health and in terms of privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u96	Every entrepreneur is of course free to put software on the market as long as legal regulations are respected. Should the platform provide incorrect information, which could lead to a risk to public health, the company may be sued through appropriate legal channels. Indeed, the fact that the founders and some of Emma's employees are doctors can create confidence among the users. Emma pretends that her solution increases the safety of patients and citizens. For example, a driver and his employer would be alerted not to continue driving the truck because certain vital parameters indicate fatigue or other risks. In any case, the responsibility for errors will lie with Emma, unless, of course, the contract states very clearly in which cases there is no responsibility. In this case, the buyer, the employer or the direct customer will bear the responsibility. Currently, all software applications already have to follow the Belgian privacy regime. The forthcoming GDPR regulation will require an even more explicit privacy guarantee. So that's already in May, so not for long. The privacy rules and GDPR will not allow data to be transferred to third parties, for example to insurance institutions, either by the software provider or by the employer who purchased this application for his employees. As you may know, some digital applications that have been registered through Mobile Health's validation pyramid method and have been approved by the federal government may be marked as: may be advised or prescribed by authorised healthcare providers. For everyone else, that will not be the case. I have also read that the founders mainly want to integrate the platform into primary care. I think the question should also be put to Minister Vandeurzen or other ministers. It's about lifestyle, nutrition, movement, mental health. The power lies, on the one hand, with me and, on the other hand, with the Communities. In this respect, we must follow the same line, namely that we must be careful.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u97	Madam President, Minister, thank you very much for your reply. I am glad to hear from you the same caution that I have myself for such gadgets. We'll hear about it anyway. It is, however, perhaps a good suggestion to raise the issue at Flemish level as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u98	Madam Secretary, on 1 February an article appeared in the newspapers about a new patient with Hunter. It said that for people who are already being treated with Elaprase for that condition, the reimbursement goes through but that it is currently on hold for new patients. So far, that hasn't been a problem until a new patient shows up. Madam Secretary, why is it that it has been decided to pay back and is that now on hold? Is there going to be a decision to repay this soon? When exactly will that be?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u99	Mrs Van Camp, the decision to provisionally suspend reimbursement for new patients was taken in 2011 by my predecessor in the framework of the procedure within the Committee on Medicinal Products Meeting on the individual review of Elaprase to change the conditions of reimbursement by introducing stopping criteria based on limited long-term results. Compensation was limited to patients who were already being treated due to the significant budget overrun, the limited efficacy of the medicinal product and the ongoing uncertainties regarding the functioning of Elaprase. On 31 May 2017, the pharmaceutical company Shire applied to the CTG for a change in the conditions of reimbursement for the reimbursement of Elaprase for new patients who are not eligible for the current reimbursement. The file is still under review by the CTG. As soon as the procedure there is concluded, I will make a decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u100	Madam Minister, a petition came in to the committee about the difference in hygiene measures between the different hospitals, made by the mother of someone suffering from mucous membranes. Did you get that petition? Can you formulate an answer? As far as I had understood from the mother who submitted the application, she had not yet received a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u101	Mrs Van Camp, I checked, but we are not aware of a petition. We contacted the services of the Chamber and after examination it appeared that the petition in question was not sent to me. The right to petition is enshrined in Article 28 of the Constitution and Article 57 of the Constitution, which states that the Chamber of Representatives has the right to refer the petitions submitted to it to the Ministers. Article 142 of the Rules of Procedure provides that the President of the Chamber shall send the petitions received to the Petitions Committee or to the Committee responsible for the matter to which the application relates, or the President of the Chamber shall decide that they shall be submitted to the Chamber. Pursuant to Rule 143, the Petitions Committee may, as soon as possible, refer the application to the Minister responsible, to the College of the Federal Ombudsmen or to the committee responsible. The application may also be dismissed. It is not clear to me at what stage of the procedure you were informed about the petition. However, the Chamber does not know that it has been sent to me and my services do not know that it has arrived. I can't do more than inform myself, because it intrigues me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u102	Madam President, may I ask that the petition be sent to the Minister as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u103	I'm not sure it's here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u104	I don't have it either. You have to send us the data. When a motion or petition is filed, it is received by the Speaker of the House. Then he can send it to the mediation commission before sending it to us. A small file should therefore be drawn up. I'd like to help you find out where this is, but it's with the president that you should discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u105	We received an e-mail from the secretariat, along with the Axxon petition. There was also a petition from Mrs Brigitte Bouzin. This dates back to August 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u106	It's not a petition, it's an email she sent to someone?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u107	No, from the secretariat reporting that those petitions were available on the intranet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u108	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u109	The petition was also added.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u110	In this case, we can see if we want to put this item on the agenda of the Committee on Public Health so that we can consider the petition, if we have received a document from the Committee on Petitions. We'll check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u111	A letter from the President of the Chamber was also added. It states that the letter was well received and was sent to the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u112	If the issue is to be deepened through proposals, it must be developed. Then the Public Health Commission will be able to seize the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u113	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u114	We will organize the order of business on 17 April. This may be an opportunity to update the data.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u115	Madam President, Minister, in the previous budget and policy paper we discussed the premium made available to nurses in the federal sector. This is a nice boost for the sector, which is very anxious, as has been mentioned several times in the past. The policy of turning every euro double in Health is now working and is finally starting to bear fruit. The costs for medicines and, importantly, what people have to pay out of their own pockets have fallen. There is the social third-party contributor to the general practitioner, so that those who have a financial difficulty can go to the family doctor for one euro. Thanks to efforts to focus, for example, on cheaper brands of the same medicine, the sector will regain breathing space and social security and public health will remain affordable. That the wages of nurses improves is also a beautiful fruit of that. The year-end premium in the sector is a nice boost, as is the actualisation of the baremas based on job descriptions, responsibilities and the necessary competences, integrated into a job classification model. There are still a few questions on the ground about their practical implementation. First of all, the tight timetable to position all employees in this model requires a lot of effort, especially if this, as it should, happens with careful information and documentation from all employees. Is this timetable realistic? What's the timeline? Secondly, based on which tool or parameter exactly will the additional IFIC payment be made? So for which care staff and in what circumstances, under what conditions will the additional wage apply? Finally, the new baremas based on the function classification model cannot be fully implemented and thus the implementation will be phased out. The deadline depends on the budgetary space that can be released annually for IFIC. Is it possible at all as a nurse to make a choice now to switch to the new barema recently it was decided that the nurses will have to make a choice in it, knowing that the deadline for 100 % introduction is still unclear?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u116	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, this reform is really important and has been discussed for many years. The new wage model and its timing were negotiated by the social partners. This was the subject of the collective agreement on the introduction of a new wage model for the federal health services, a collective agreement signed on 11 December 2017. The available budget will be distributed in a provisional manner on the basis of the number of full-time equivalents referred to by the collective agreement. During the review of the financial year in question, the funding granted will be revised according to the modalities to be determined within the Federal Hospital Services Council. For which workers does this collective agreement apply? These are establishments which are subject to the law on hospitals, with the exception of autonomous categoral hospitals. These are hospitals which have only a G service, i.e. rehabilitation and geriatric patients, or a Sp service, a specialised treatment and rehabilitation service, as mentioned in Article 5 (1), (1) and (3) and (4) of the Special Law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions. These include psychiatric care homes and sheltered housing initiatives. It also concerns the employees of the forensic psychiatric centres and the rehabilitation centres, in particular, the institutions with which the RIZIV Insurance Committee, acting on a proposal from the College of Medical Directors in implementation of Article 22, 6° of the Law on compulsory medical care insurance and benefits coordinated on 14 July 1994, concluded an agreement which does not fall within the scope of Article 5 (1) of the Special Law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions. It also concerns the blood services of the Belgian Red Cross, home care, medical and paediatric centres and nursing services working in the district health centres. The collective agreement does not apply to management staff, i.e. management staff as referred to in Article 4, 4° of the Law of 4 December 2007 on Social Elections, nor to doctors, with the exception of doctors in district health centres, who are also insured. The employees who joined the service by 30 April 2018 still have the possibility to choose whether or not to opt for the IFIC berema. Those who will join the service from 1 May 2018 do not have that option and will immediately be covered by the IFIC-barema. Nursing staff shall have the possibility to make a choice according to the provisions of the collective agreement, with the exception of nurses entitled to the special professional title or special professional qualification premium on 1 January 2018. They retain their existing wage conditions and therefore do not have the choice in phase 1. The signatory parties will decide at each subsequent stage whether or not to switch to the IFIC berema. The first phase is therefore currently being applied. Enlargement for the other groups will take place after a subsequent consultation. It is likely that the option will be offered each time, as this option also exists now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u117	Madam President, Minister, this is also a dossier I have been following up on for a while. On my last question, you replied that this government, as noted in the government agreement, is working on a structural solution to the fact that the amount provided for in the BFM to cover the response contribution does not cover the invoice for many hospitals at all. You recognized that. That hangs like a sword of Damocles over a lot of hospitals, which really can't cope with these shortages anymore. Often these are hospitals which have just cut down their statutory staff, which is also desirable, which increases the response contribution. It is commendable that this government finally wants to tackle this and that a limited amount has already been released through the tax shift in order to better cover part of the invoice. That is certainly a start, but those additional resources do not cover the costs at all. As long as the key is not dealt with in a structural manner and the amount provided for in the BFM does not better cover the invoice of the response contribution, the situation remains unsustainable for many hospitals, especially those affected by the current key. As a trade minister, you're working hard to adjust that key. Any sign of light at the end of the tunnel? When can we expect solutions here?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u118	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, as you know, this is a problem of responding to the public and private hospitals that hospital staff have at their disposal, mostly through mergers or acquisitions from the past. We have been carrying this problem for a long time. In addition to the additional budgets allocated to hospitals since 2016, I have asked the administration to study the different slopes for additional funding, either through the allocation of part of the tax-shift budget foreseen in 2019 and 2020, or through the application of an additional budget. These are irresponsible past decisions. I was here then and we warned against it. We still bear the consequences of this. A report may also be published after the legislature, because this is a real disgrace.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u119	So you're still working on a solution to reconsider that key?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u120	It is not about the distribution key, it is about the lack of money to meet those past commitments for those statutory staff. That's the issue. A solution has been sought in the past for one or two years. There was great consternation about that. However, this happened shortly before the elections. They have then chosen eggs for their money and thought that the next team would provide money for that. But then came the economic crisis. It was the Di Rupo government that had to put money aside for that. That didn't happen. The hospitals are dragging that with them. This makes mergers and the operation of hospitals more difficult, because the hospitals have to put that money on the table. It's about acquired rights. So that's a lot of trouble. We have been very negligent when these commitments have been made and they have been granted rights without providing for the necessary budget. We all know this is happening. I do regret that hospitals have to pay their operating costs for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u121	So, if I understand correctly, isn't the key currently being touched?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u122	I've asked for simulations. It also depends on the amount, it is huge amounts. For the financing of the tax shift in the welfare envelope, I had a part, namely 5%, reserved for hospitals to meet this requirement. Of course, that's only a small percentage of the money they have to give.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u123	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u124	The incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u125	Questions No 23544 by Mr Vercamer and No 23621 by Mr Thiébaut are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u126	Madam President, Minister, this question has been going on for some time. On my previous question No. 21647 on the tax on soft drinks, we have discussed the introduction of a differentiation of excise duties on soft drinks, particularly for sweet drinks. These would be valued differently than soft drinks with sugar. You indicated at that time that you were certainly in favour of this, but that this is a responsibility of your colleague, the Minister of Finance. The latter is indeed responsible for practical implementation, but the political decision to make such a differentiation lies with you as Minister of Health. In the meantime, did you put that differentiation in the valuation on the government table? When exactly? What's decided in the government's lap?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u127	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, as you know, the adoption of the health tax was decided under the tax shift, Article 113 of the Law of 26 December 2015 on the system of excise duty on non-alcoholic beverages and coffee, as amended by the Programme Act of 19 December 2014, including the rate of excise duty on products referred to in Article 7 of the aforementioned Act of 21 December 2009. That article states, I quote: "Including water, mineral waters and aerated waters, containing added sugar or other sweetening matter or flavoured, and other non-alcoholic beverages falling within CN code 2202, with the exception of milk or soya drinks." When we asked for some differentiation, this proved difficult for the administration of finance, which had to implement and control this increase in excise duties. Meanwhile, there was a proposal to exclude the flavoured waters from the excise duty increase decided in 2017. This seems right to me, because there is no sugar in it. Thus, Article 140 of the Programme Act creates a new category of excise duty in Article 7 (c) of the aforementioned Act of 21 December 2009. The problem was that this was under one tax code. It says: "including flavoured waters, mineral waters and aerated waters, not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter, falling within CN code 2202'. Anything that would contain sweeteners falls out of that, also light and zero. So there's no sweetener in it. That's where the divorce was made. In this respect I have been kindly received in the cabinet with my assistant and head of the cabinet. The Minister of Finance will be able to explain more about the precise modalities, but the separation is made: sugar or other sweeteners or nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u128	The question was mainly about the distinction between sugar and sweeteners.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u129	That all falls into the same category. It's never about a sweetener. I've been looking into the research. It's always about a combination of sweeteners. The drink may contain aspartame and other artificial sweeteners, but also some sugar. Maybe less than usual, but there's always sugar in it. That's because they all have a different taste sensation. One sweetener stimulates the taste buds in the beginning and then one likes it. The other sweetener stimulates after drinking, giving the impression that one still drinks it. That's a very ingenious system. So we don't make a distinction. There's always sugar in it. If it's light or zero, people think it doesn't contain sugar, but it doesn't. There's always sugar in it and carbonic gases too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u130	In my previous question, I asked whether you were in favour of a differentiation of soft drinks with sugar, sweeteners and without sugar. I think you misunderstood it at the time, because you said that you could find it, but I do not understand it before.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u131	No, because on previous questions, I have already said that the dentists had pointed out to us that the carbon dioxide gases and acids even in light and zerof drinks affect the tooth glaze and are therefore equally harmful in that respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u132	This is, of course, even more damaging with sugar and carbon dioxide, hence the question. I have found your answer: 'In the future we still need to look at how we can better reflect a difference between sugar or an alternative sweetener in policy'.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u133	Yes, but we have made the choice, because we have seen that, if there are alternative sweeteners in it, there is still some sugar in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u134	Okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u135	Sugar is everywhere, just like endocrine disruptors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u136	Colleagues, attached questions Nos 23656 and 23742 by Nathalie Muylle and André Frédéric are postponed. Questions Nos 23736 and 23737 by Mrs Nathalie Muylle are transformed into written questions, as is Question No 23750 by Mr Jean-Jaques Flahaux. I contacted Mr. Philippe Goffin, but I don't know if he'll be here in time. Ms Kattrin Jadin, Mr Raf Terwingen and Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou have not given any news, their attached questions No 23772, No 24336 and No 24566 are therefore withdrawn. Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou requested the postponement of her question No. 23809.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u137	Madam Secretary, one and a half years after the agreement between plastic surgeons, the RIZIV and the health insurance funds on the reimbursement of the warm breast, testimonials are again emerging from increasing costs in breast reconstructions with their own tissue. Come on against Cancer reported there a few weeks ago. This, of course, leads to panic among patients who fear that the "bosom chord" has ended up in the garbage can again. That is absolutely not true. Almost all Flemish hospitals have signed the agreement and my e-mails from the RIZIV show that more and more Walloon and Brussels hospitals are joining each week. That's good news. The complex story deserves, of course, a correct appointment of the problems. The warm breast treatment has become a bit of a victim of one's own success. More and more women choose it, including women who are actually too thin for it and are not really eligible in principle. The plastic surgeons try to adjust a sleeve here by placing a smaller tissue flap, whether taken from the back or not. It usually contains too little fat to make a breast similar to the remaining breast. Once again this is dissolved with liposuction and lipofilling of the chest. This technique normally only happens in the case of aesthetic interventions, so there is no nomenclature number for it. If this happens, the costs will be borne entirely by the patient. Firstly, the "bosom agreement" included an evaluation of the agreement after one year. Are there any figures for this? Can we get it then? Secondly, is there any budgetary room to provide for an increased refund for the technique of lipofilling as part of a reconstruction as part of a therapy? Can that be separated from pure aesthetics? Does the issue not show that RIZIV lags behind for a few years in the evaluation of the nomenclature with a view to the reimbursement of new techniques? There is no doubt that I am repeating myself when I call for the overall evaluation of the nomenclature, even if it has an impact on hospital funding. Where are we on that big yard from the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u138	Mrs. Capoen, it took a year to negotiate the breast agreement. However, we are really pleased with it. We also decided to publish the agreement on the RIZIV website. The committee members remember that very few hospitals had signed up at the beginning and that I had to make that very strict at the time. Mrs Jiroflée had asked another question about this. Since hospitals still signed the convention until the end of 2017, the evaluation, which was expected by the end of November, will not be completed until the end of May 2018. After all, we still have to take that information with us. Whatever the outcome of the evaluation, I have certainly met a lot of younger and older women who could have a reconstruction done thanks to the reimbursement. It is unbelievable but true, but when one is too thin one sometimes has to use a different technique. I have been told that thumb-thick fat on the abdomen or thighs, that unfortunately there is enough for most women. For those who are too thin, one has to work with a flap of the latissimus dorsi. It is also refunded by a code in the nomenclature. If it is a very thin woman, with rather small breasts, such reconstruction will produce good results. If the other breast is still too large, then the symmetry will also make the necessary adjustments, just as one does for older women, because the original older breast tends to hang and the younger breast does not. Other flaps can also be used if the DIEP flap is no longer possible. An example is the perforator flap from the gluteal region, from the buttocks. This type of reconstruction is also included in the convention which we now call the 'boob chord'. However, only a limited number of centres, which have agreed to the breast agreement, have the expertise on the procedure for the gluteal flap. Lipofilling comes naturally from the aesthetic branch of plastic surgery. The problem is not so much the lack of a current nomenclature number, but the fact that there is no evidence yet that the technique for reconstruction produces lasting results. When we look at the anatomy of a breast, we see three ingredients: skin, connective tissue and gland tissue with natural fat inside. With lipofilling one only injects fat and therefore it seems impossible to me that in the absence of connective tissue and glands to hold it together, fat could form a full breast. There is no obvious evidence of this. The technique can be used in so-called retouches, for example for symmetry or because a piece of the transplanted tissue has died, sometimes an angle or a triangle. Fortunately, that terrible article turned out to be false. We have made direct contact with great indignation. That indignation was felt by all those who endorsed the 'bosom agreement', because we would again go against the tongue. The great lesson we must learn from this is that women must be properly informed in advance of such delicate interventions. I certainly cannot appreciate the fact that such high-profile articles are being sent out to the world, so to speak, to hunt everyone down, because it puts everyone who has agreed to the agreement and follows it in a bad light. Anyway, thrill press will always exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u139	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I will await the evaluation with the corresponding figures. I will speak to you again about this. After the lipofilling there is indeed a 20% loss of fatty tissue, so that is normal. I think that lipofilling can indeed be useful for certain women, for example for super-slim women who still have a big bosom, because those women naturally ask that the reconstructed breast approach the original breast as far as possible. Information is also very important. We must make it clear to patients that they do not get a perfect breast reconstructed and that their expectations may not be too high either.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u140	We will close our work now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u141	Indeed, I have an emergency in the firm.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic855x.u142	Question No 23771 by Mr Philippe Goffin is transformed into a written question. Minister, you will come every week from the week following the week of 16. You'll give us half a day a week to answer our questions. We are at point 59, the latter included, with 9 postponements. We dealt with 45 issues. That's good.
