ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 24959, 25127 and 25624 have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u2	Since Mr Van Hees and Mr Hedebouw are absent, their questions lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u3	Minister, the press has been reporting these days on your willingness to present a note to the Council of Ministers shortly in order to explain the state of the market for the purchase of 34 fighter-bombers. My question was dated 11 June. In the meantime, there has been a lot of things going on, and you and the Prime Minister have had a bit of a different kind of exchange through the press. The Request for Government Proposal (RfGP) mentioned the beginning of the decision-making process for May 2018, already. We're approaching July. Hence, minister, my four questions. When do you plan to present this note? Will it be this Friday? Could you clarify when the government's decision to buy these 34 fighter-bombers will be formally taken? Will this note be based solely on the findings of the Air Combat Capacity Program (ACcaP) following the formal filing of offers by UK and US agencies? Will you also discuss other aspects, such as the possible extension of the current F-16, which caused a lot of ink to flow, and/or the French offer, completely out of order? Are you considering mobilizing Article 8 of the RfGP to cancel the market? Does your note address this increasingly likely assumption? Finally, the NATO summit is scheduled in Brussels on 11 and 12 July, and President Trump's pressure on European allies has become unbearable for them to invest at all costs in their defence. The same President Trump is a fierce opponent of the F-35 program that is competing in this market. The United States has announced an unprecedented trade war against the European Union, and this movement, too, was confirmed by the failure of the G7 summit a few weeks ago in Canada. Brexit is being carried out according to a particularly chaotic process. Is it appropriate, in this context, to make the necessarily political choice of an apparatus, either predominantly British or American?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u4	Madam President, I shall put my two questions to you. In view of the current situation, the question originally put is already dated. Nor do I give any further introductions, since the previous speaker has already done so. Minister, at the press conference on 15 June, the Prime Minister announced that the deadline for the replacement of the F-16 fleet will be postponed to mid-October. The Prime Minister's statement also showed that, in addition to the two remaining offers from the RfGP, the extension of the current fleet and the French proposal is also being examined. During last Sunday's television debate, your chairman ruled that out. However, the Prime Minister confirmed at that time that, in addition to the two remaining offers, the extension of the current fleet and the French proposal would also be examined. I would like an answer to the following questions, Minister. You have stated on several occasions that the lifetime extension of the F-16 species has been thoroughly investigated, but has not proved to be an option. How are these statements consistent with the review announced by the Prime Minister? In addition to the evaluation under the RfGP, which departments will be able to examine the two additional runs and compare them globally with the other ones? What's the timing of the file? We are talking about postponement until mid-October, but at what point will Parliament be informed effectively, not only through leaks in the press, about the state of play in this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u5	Mr Dallemagne, you have the floor. I suggest that you also ask your two questions in a row.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u6	Madam President, Minister, I must confess that in the box office of the summer soap operas, you certainly had to dethrone Game of Thrones or La Casa de Papel. I don't know what season we're in this bid review business to replace our F-16s, but it's true that there's a series of near-daily political twists today. We have visibly moved from technical questions to rather political ones with almost daily twists. Nor is it clear who decides in this country with regard to the replacement of combat aircraft. Mr Minister, a decision by the Council of Ministers finally took place on 15 June, which seemed to be a decision of common sense. We were going to analyse all the possibilities, be it the extension of the F-16s, a purchase through the RfGP or the analysis of France's proposal for a global strategic partnership. Finally, we had something reasonable and serious in relation to our strategic, political and military interests. But now, on June 22, 2018, in the daily De Morgen, you say: "Ah, no, not at all, the Rafale is excluded." There was also the press conference with the Prime Minister: "No, no! It went very badly. It was not at all that which had to be done." It seems that it warmed up very strongly between you and the Prime Minister on the early morning of the 22nd. It took a new Council of Ministers to reconfirm the decision of the previous Council of Ministers to analyse all offers. We thought it was over, that there would be no more episodes and that we were going to move on to the next season. Not at all! There was an extra episode on Sunday. Bart De Wever pointed out to everyone, speaking of the Rafale, that: "This device is excluded because it is a device that makes it possible to do nothing." Among the many qualities of your party president, there is today that of an aviator who visibly considers that the Rafale is of no use. The French, one of the first world powers, permanent members of the Security Council, who have developed very successful programmes in a range of fields, have a warplane that is of no use! In recent decades, we have had to dream! They were seen engaged on all military grounds, but they were certainly not Rafale-type aircraft. A Rafale label must have been stuck on planes that weren't. This last episode has proved to be rather pathetic and distressing, because such statements can only be made by irresponsible totally incompetent people. I hope that your party president does not belong to this category... It is distressing for our country, which is faced with a leading partner, but it is especially dismaying in terms of our military and strategic interests. Therefore, Mr Minister of Defence, I would like to know whether you are going to comply seriously with the decision of the Council of Ministers. Will we finally serenely analyze all the offers? In the meantime, when I read the press, I became aware of a new episode. Perhaps you can confirm to me that Colonel Gennart has begun to examine the French offer. In any case, he stated in La Libre Belgique that the offer was incomplete and characterized by its lightness. Did he get a leak or did you hire him as an expert? I'd like everyone to calm down and we can finally analyze the options. The global context has become much more threatening. That is why we have a real interest in finding efficient solutions at European level for our fleet of fighter aircraft and also in determining the best option for Belgium, both in terms of budget, industrial, political and military. How will you accomplish this work? How are you going to do that? Have you finally learned about the French offer? What is the time frame for reviewing the various options? How are we going to be able to get out of this rather pathetic government crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u7	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, you can ask your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u8	Madam President, not exactly. I had tabled one for the Minister of Defence and another for the Prime Minister, who seems to want to avoid it. Therefore, in order to make life easier for everyone, I have attached my two questions. Minister, we learned in the press that you would have given a boost to the F-16 replacement file, as the findings of the CCAaP and the Finance Inspectorate would be ready. You would now be busy drafting a note to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible. At the June 14 plenary session, you assured the House that the government would make its decision taking into account all the issues involved. However, we were also able to learn that the full version of the French proposal would never have been formally filed and that your firm would never have really analyzed this option. This information is somewhat contrary to the Prime Minister's statements. In any event, we are sure that this dossier has come to the table of the cabinet of the burger of Antwerp, since, as my colleague reminded us, we were given his fine analysis. Minister, beyond the question of whether there is still a pilot on the plane, on this issue, I would like to ask you a number of questions. What is the current status of the procedure? When will the ACCaP Cell present its findings to the House? Will your note to the Council of Ministers be presented and discussed in advance in the House? What will be the criteria in your score? Will the strengthening of European defence and the search for synergies, including industrial and civil-military ones, be part of it? Would you like a final decision to be taken by the government before the NATO summit in early July, next week? Last February, the Prime Minister replied: "However, when the time comes, the whole dossier will be submitted to the government with the offers that have been introduced under the procedure and the various proposals for strategic partnership". What, then, is the status of the strategic partnership proposed by France, or even other options? Has this partnership been analysed by your firm or not? Was it communicated to the rest of the government? Indeed, as I said earlier, he seems to have been subjected to the analysis of other actors? Has the Prime Minister's Office been able to analyze the documents submitted as part of the French proposal for a strategic partnership?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u9	The previous speakers have introduced the subject perfectly, so I am asking the shortest question ever. Minister, what is the state of play on this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u10	Mr Dallemagne, there is a golden rule. The more sequels, the worse the movie usually gets. Minister, on 15 June it appeared that you no longer have the file on fighter aircraft in your hands. At a press conference it became clear that the Prime Minister was pulling the file towards him. It will not be until October that we will decide how to proceed with this. Not only the winner of the competition will be included, but also a possible lifetime extension, which you have always maintained was complete, and even the French offer outside the procedure. Then your interview ended up in a newspaper where you said Rafale was out of the question. That contradicted what the Prime Minister said at the press conference. Then came the ukaze of Bart De Wever in the Seventh Day. It shouldn't get much crazier. Whoever still doubts it, the formal procurement procedure is kaduuk, dead and buried. If we want to stick to the procedure and we want to go ahead with it, we will have a procedure which has been contaminated for more than a year. Three out of five candidates have dropped out. It has also been shown that studies by Lockheed Martin indicating a possible extension of the lifetime of the F-16s were hidden. The procedure was therefore no longer reliable. We have warned against this. However, it went on as if nothing was going on until the Prime Minister had to intervene. First of all, what does this mean for the ACAP team that compared the F-35 and the Typhoon? Does he get another part to make the same exercise for the Rafale? How will the three devices be compared? Who's gonna do that? On what criteria will that happen? Secondly, you have always said that objectivity and transparency are very important to us. How can you guarantee transparency and objectivity if there are two other options on the government table outside the procedure? We are very concerned about this because we fear a very hot summer when it comes to lobbying and back room politics. The locks are open, anything becomes possible. That is our impression, unless you can tell us here that a clear procedure will be followed in the coming summer months. Thirdly, the winner of your proceedings, which means one of the two, has no conclusive evidence yet that he has won. How will you prevent the winner from taking everything out of the closet in terms of lobbying, economic compensation and so on, in order to influence the government's decision? Fourthly, I have a question about the extension of life. There have been studies of Lockheed Martin, we have had hearings, there have been testimonies. Many experts have expressed their views on this extension of life, including in the media. How will the government deal with this? Is a new investigation being ordered? How will the technical evaluation of the possible lengthening of life actually take place? Is it the people we have been able to question here in the Chamber, who are being asked for a ruling by the government? Will this happen in private or not? Does Parliament still have a role to play in this, or will the government simply decide with the wet finger whether it is still possible to extend its lifespan or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have answered many of the questions more than once and explained them in detail in this committee over the last few months, but I will repeat them with your permission. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, there is no question of a sudden accelerator. The RfGP provided for the delivery of the best and final offers on February 14. Thereafter, the bids were to be reviewed by the 33-person evaluation team divided into seven separate teams. These teams have done their job. The results of the evaluation were then submitted to the Inspector of Finance, who provided his opinion. This opinion, as in any procedure, is required prior to a visit to the Council of Ministers. It was the Finance Inspector who had the sealed envelope with the bid evaluation mechanism in order to allow independent monitoring of this evaluation. His opinion is addressed to me, as well as to the Minister of Budget. Mr Dallemagne, as far as the Government Accountability Office (GAO) is concerned, it is a kind of American Court of Auditors, which closely follows the F-35 programme and periodically publishes a report on this subject. The ACCap team is aware of these periodic reports from GAO. In many countries, there is an agency that monitors development programmes. However, the U.S. GAO is the only one to publish its reports. There are no reports from similar organizations. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make it clear once again that the acquisition process is continuing. All the elements are being prepared to submit the file to the government. It will be the government that makes the final decision. As long as the acquisition procedure is under way, it is not possible to release elements from that procedure. I repeat that the file is in the process of being prepared before it is submitted to the government. I will not move forward by setting a date for the submission of the file to the government. As has already been specified, the government will look at this issue taking into account all the elements that can play a role in this issue. These are the results of the evaluation but also all other elements that may have an impact on the decision. The French proposal was analyzed on the basis of the data in our possession, namely, the letter I received from Minister Parly and the presentation by the delegation from her office a few weeks ago. The government asked me if it was possible to get more information. I have transmitted this request to France through various channels. A week later, I reiterated my request. This one didn't succeed. As far as deadlines are concerned, it must be noted that this is an important decision for the Defence and for Belgium for the years to come. The government will take the necessary time. I repeat once again that this is not just about the purchase of aircraft. The RfGP states that we are looking for a strategic partnership for the air combat capability of the air component. Let us not forget that almost 20% of the weights are linked to this strategic partnership. Societal return is also taken into account. It was decided by the government that 10% of the weighting would be linked to essential security interests. This is also important and will play a role in the decision. The government decided to launch a competition in which all the necessary aspects were taken up, in order to arrive at a solution that was materially and economically balanced and from the point of view of partnerships. We cannot lose sight of the fact that any Western nation could participate in this transparent competition. Mr President, Mr De Vriendt, I have noticed that you often give your own reading of the facts. No review of the possible extension of life is hereby initiated. What has been agreed, as I believe the Prime Minister has meant, is that all the findings of the past few months will be grouped together and submitted in a structured manner to the government in the framework of the final decision. Mr De Vriendt, you also asked a question about the possible lobbying of different agencies. Well, I cannot prevent agencies and companies involved from trying through the press to influence the decision in a certain direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u12	Madam Chair, Minister, you did not answer my two questions, whether you were planning to activate section 8 of the RfGP. You did not specify whether the note you are going to present to the Council of Ministers would take over the hypothesis of an extension, but also the French offer. If I ask you this, it is because since May 2018, the decision-making process should be in progress. There is no decision yet. I agree with you on one point: the French offer has been put out of the nails. France did not answer the 164 technical questions put to it. The French offer is therefore not part of the ongoing procedure. Where I am wrong is to continue in the current procedure. There are two "survivors" to the procedure: the F-35 and the Eurofighter. For the F-35, Donald Trump is waging an unprecedented trade war. And for the Eurofighter, Theresa May is taking Britain out of our common political project, the European Union. I think that for political reasons, but also for budgetary reasons, squandering with the procedure by including the French in a procedure from which they have excluded themselves – as the MR seems to want to propose – would expose us to legal remedies and then to financial sanctions for the state budget. I would remind you that we are talking about a budget of EUR 15 billion over 40 years, which concerns two generations of Belgians. You can do something safe, legally valid, by activating Article 8 of the RfGP and thus cancelling this market.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your incomplete answer, because I have not received an answer to all my questions. It is strange that you are still giving a different interpretation of the statements and the decision of the government, the Prime Minister, who wants to make a serious assessment of all the proposals. As you yourself have said, all the elements must be taken into account. In that reasoning one can expect that the other traces that are now being put forward, namely the French offer and the examination of the extension of the F-16s, will be prepared and evaluated in an equally serious manner? You indicated today, firstly, that you have not yet received any further information from the French on repeated questions, and secondly, that the existing assessments of the extension of the F-16s are sufficient to reach a decision at government level. If I am asked, the ACAP team, which includes seven teams with 33 members in total, has only carried out an evaluation of the first two proposals in accordance with the RfGP. I have not received an answer to my question whether that same team or another team will also evaluate the additional proposals in an equally thorough way? As the previous speaker said, 15 billion means a very large expenditure for the next two generations. It calls for a very thorough and objective evaluation. If I then find that the additional elements that have been introduced are not thoroughly examined, I can only conclude that you are sticking to the proposal made on the basis of the RfGP. That's my observation. You continue to run counter to the Prime Minister's ruling. You have always defended transparency and objective evaluation by the ACAP team. The first evaluation of the proposals by two providers, namely the F-35 of the United States and the Eurofighter of the United Kingdom, based on the RfGP, is now over. The question is, of course, how to proceed. What's the status? What's the timing? What is the role of Parliament in the dossier? In what way will you maintain objectivity and transparency? Who will finally complete the proposals and submit them to the Council of Ministers? All these questions have not been answered today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u14	Minister, we can see that you're walking on eggs. Your language is meant not to offend anyone, neither your party president nor the Prime Minister. The problem is whether there is still good faith in the handling of this case. Are you going to deal with this French offer in particular, in good faith? I can't hear it in your answer. You say you haven't received all the documents that allow you to study the offer. I can understand the French in view of the way they were despised – and I weigh my words – in this case since the beginning and in view of the way in which the spokesman of your cabinet treated the French government delegation by saying "I have learned nothing more" when there was a document that I have read and which is extremely detailed about the French offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u15	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u16	Yes, you did! You said it here in committee, the forty pages of the offer! As the French come with these documents, your spokesman decides that she learned nothing more at this meeting. I see that there is a problem of trust on both sides. I think it is time to restore that confidence and finally have a serious study in this area. There's one thing I don't understand. Either this French offer is not good and then I do not understand why we do not sit down with the experts of the French government, that we do not study it calmly and that we do not end up saying that the conclusions are that this offer does not correspond to our demand. Either this offer is good – and I end up wondering if it is not even very good – and we reject it from the outset because we have already decided from the beginning that we want an American plane. A lot of people think so. Your predecessor had already insisted on that. Many people in your staff and in your cabinet have also expressed themselves in this direction. I think that this so-called transparent, fair, objective procedure is just an impossibility. In view of the share given in this offer at the price which is very small compared to other criteria which we cannot evaluate, neither you nor I, which belong to "experts", we can actually question. Anyway, what I'm asking you is to be careful about this F-35 plane. Indeed, in addition to the political problems we are experiencing today and the illegal trade war imposed on us by the United States, the United States Court of Auditors, in a report which has been rather unnoticed but dated 5 June, points to 966 critical defects, 111 of which are category 1, i.e. critical defects which endanger the safety of the aircraft and the safety of the pilot. The US Court of Auditors states that some of these defects cannot be corrected before the F-35 is marketed. In this case, we are going to buy aircraft that will have major critical defects recognised by the US Court of Auditors. If we succeed in correcting them, we will have to finance these corrections, because another section of U.S. law provides that there is no question for an American taxpayer to pay the bill for military equipment that is sold to third countries. So it will be up to us to pay these bills. The price we're going to pay for these F-35s is only indicative. No one knows the final price for a plane whose performance is not yet known. I ask you to carry out a serious study and to choose a European solution for a combat aircraft and the future development of our air capabilities. The credibility of European Defence and that of our country is at stake. I ask you to seriously analyse this and not be distracted by your party president.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers. These support me in the feeling that not all options will be considered on an equal footing. I am not an engineer and I will not comment on the subject, but I have the feeling that those who might do so will not make an objective decision on all offers. This worries me because, as has been said, "this is the market of the century". I would remind you that it is a matter of committing Belgium for several millions, and for several generations. In addition, we are talking about major strategic issues in terms of defence, but also in industrial terms. It is the European Defence of tomorrow that is the subject of this issue. All these messes between your office, the Rue de la Loi and the Town Hall of Antwerp are losing credibility in this case and legitimacy in your proceedings. My group calls for this debate to come back to Parliament. This is the only way to be sure that this matter has been dealt with impartially and to ensure that the decision is taken objectively. The latest episodes that we have experienced have resulted in the fact that the procedure that you put in place, which may seem attractive, is no longer credible today. We call for this debate to come back to Parliament. I still don't know if there's a pilot on the plane, but what's for sure is that our MR colleagues have chosen the ejectable seat option because they are not present in committee and have not considered it appropriate to ask a question. Even if they know the answer, they could pretend to be interested in the parliamentary debate. Above all, they should not fear, in a case of such importance, to offend one or the other. Mr Minister, the Socialist Group's request is clear: this debate must come back to Parliament, so that we can all examine the options on this vital issue, both in the interests of our country and in the interests of tomorrow's European Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u18	Mr Minister, the government has decided, following a positive opinion from the competent parliamentary commission for the purchase and sale of military equipment, and in accordance with European legislation on public procurement, to enter into a competition. Mr De Vriendt claims that competition is contaminated. However, it is absolutely uncontaminated. It is very transparent and complies with all rules laid down by law. It is understandable that the government wishes to provide a well-founded response to possible side-tracks. It is equally important that the competition is not falsified. We held 35 hours of debates at five meetings. They have made it perfectly clear in the decision-making process on which the government decision was based. Twenty-six of the 27 experts, whom we have heard, believe that the government is working properly in the dossier. Above all, we must conclude the fair competition that has been launched. If we now add an aircraft outside the competition, we will plunge Belgium into an unprecedented international scandal. We prefer transparency and competent experts who act in accordance with the legislation and can pass the tests of the competent control bodies, such as the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Firstly, you keep repeating that the procedure is continuing. You seem to be living in a parallel universe. The Prime Minister has flagged you back, taken communication and has declared that it is now up to the government to consider the dossier. If there is no problem, the decision could now be taken and it would not be lifted over the summer, as is happening now. It remains unclear how the government and who in the government will carry out the evaluation. Will it be done by the Prime Minister's cabinet or by your cabinet? Will you make a proposal? Will the Prime Minister make a proposal? You're right, there won't be another investigation. However, the data is available. All the slopes are ahead, even the slopes outside the procedure. Who will compare them? Who will make a proposal to the government? All that remains unclear. In fact, you yourself are quite humbly admitting that the doors are open to lobbying and that you will not be able to do anything in the file in the coming months. Secondly, Madam President, I would also like to address you. On 15 March 2017, the Commission for Army Purchases and Sales last looked at the file in question. The biggest investment dossier of the past few decades has been discussed by Parliament almost a year and a half ago in all its technicality. So Parliament exercised its control almost a year and a half ago. That's not serious. The Army Procurement and Sales Commission must meet again and review the advice of the Treasury Inspectorate, which was delivered to the government. The chairman of the committee knows that this can be done: she can re-evoke a dossier that has already been discussed. We will ask for this to be organised, in transparency within the committee's discretion. I do not need to remind you of our proposal for a transparency register for the government. It seems to me that some Members here should be allowed to keep such a register of transparency. I am very curious about its content. By the way, the French have put themselves out of play. They themselves chose to stand outside the procedure. They have held out a lot of good in the form of economic deals and compensations. I find it rather far-reaching that the French were being treated unfairly. Finally, what should happen now? Minister, there really is no other option. Make a formal cross about the purchase and all decision-making around it. Don't open the door to back room politics. Let's completely suspend the purchase and focus on the money we can and should spend on the Defense Department. Let us devote this to a European defence project, a European Union project. That could be the French-German aircraft in the medium term, but that could also be the strengthening of the Navy. However, let us spend the money that we can release within a European framework. If there is any gap, the French-German aircraft is not yet before tomorrow, we will be able to absorb it by agreements with other European countries which still have capacity, which we can use in the meantime. In this way, we can strengthen the European defence profile. The current purchase decision is complete kaduuk; so let us cross it and use the summer months to open the file more widely and let us think about how we spend the money and our budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u20	Mr De Vriendt, you intend to convene the Army Procurement and Sales Commission. We can probably read that in the press tomorrow for the second time. Maybe formally ask the chairman of that committee your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u21	Madam President, Minister, on 23 May the Court of Auditors published its comments and comments on the draft amendment of the State budget for the financial year 2018. We read in the report that there is a deficit of EUR 125.5 million at the start of budgetary control. The Budget Conclave of March 2018 decided to eliminate the deficit by allocating additional appropriations to Defence. In addition, the government cancelled the blockade imposed on Defence of 22.8 million euros. In addition, it granted Defence an investment credit of 5.9 million euros to compensate for the neutralization or non-integral charging of indexations. The inclusion of investment funds in the interdepartmental commission shows that these expenditures, in particular the appropriations for advance payments, are uncertain and that the amounts are not yet fixed. As a result, the stabilisation of defence expenditure at 2016 levels may be compromised and the law on military programming needs to be amended. In other words, the investments in 2018 are uncertain. As a result, it is not certain whether the stabilisation of defence expenditure can be achieved. I have two questions for you, Minister. Firstly, the law on military programming was adopted only a year ago but must be amended, in line with the comments of the Court of Auditors. Can you give some explanation of this problem? Secondly, why are investments uncertain in 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u22	Madam President, Mr Top, on 30 March, following the budgetary conclave for the adjustment of the budget for 2018, the Council of Ministers decided that an amount would be entered in the interdepartmental commission in case the contractual discussions for the investment projects of Defence would show that payments are required to be deducted. Payments are usually deducted. It is only when contracts are concluded and payments are requested by the dissuaded supplier that credits are to be made available to Defence. Therefore, the interdepartmental commission is used. The question has indeed arisen as to whether payments by deduction pursuant to Article 19 of the Royal Decree of 14 January 2013 are possible within the provisions of the Military Programming Act. In order to avoid any discussion, it was considered that it would be better to explicitly include in this law that payments in deductions are also possible in 2018 and 2019. This is without prejudice to the government's decision that payments for services provided are not planned until 2020. Deduction payments do not, by definition, increase the amount per project. As the Court of Auditors rightly points out, there is also a positive impact on defence expenditure for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u23	Mr Minister, I was given enough explanation today about the payment mechanism provided by the law, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u24	Mr President, on 25 May the Council of Ministers approved the replacement of the two Belgian frigates. The Council of Ministers also authorised the signing of the Memoranda of Understanding between the Netherlands and our country. Meanwhile, in the Netherlands, the A-letter with more information about that project was delivered to the Dutch Parliament. The A-letter shows that the new frigates must be able to be deployed worldwide. It also talks about the use of the ships in or near the Arctic Ocean, which is less known to our navy. The new frigates must also be able to attack submarines remotely. For years, the board helicopter has been intended for this purpose, but according to the letter, the frigates must also have sensors and weapons that can do so. We don't have one today. In the Strategic Vision until 2030, we could already read that the new frigates will be able to deploy exoatmospheric ballistic missiles and, where appropriate, also participate in a ballistic missile defence system (BMD). So we want to be able to bring down rockets from space. This capacity is quite unique in Europe. Minister, will the ships be adapted to the conditions of ice? What new weapons and sensors are provided for the function of submarine control? Can you give further explanation of the communications from the A-letter delivered to the Dutch House of Representatives? Will the frigates be equipped with a BMD capacity? What type of rocket will our country buy? What timing is maintained for the replacement of the frigates?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u25	Mr Top, the conclusion from my memo of 6 May 2015 on the Belgian security environment until 2030 is that Belgian economic interests in the European northern periphery will increase in the long term, if hopefully there will be access to Belgian ports by 2030, but that is another pile of ice-free and shorter sailing routes. The future frigates will therefore be provided with a hull reinforcement, because in operations in the vicinity of the Arctic ice-covered waters the presence of icebergs or ice floes cannot be excluded. However, it is not intended to build the ships in such a way that a passage through ice can be forced, they do not become icebreakers. The future frigates will have a medium distance sonar attached to the hull, and a long distance sonar in the form of a towed sonar. In addition, the capacity of the submarine control and surface control of the current and future frigates will be significantly expanded.We will now also upgrade by upgrading the NFH, called the Nato Frigate Helicopter or Kaiman, thanks to the acquisition of sensors and weapons in both domains. In addition, the ships will be equipped with unmanned systems, which are called marine unmanned systems (MUS), including for stand-off submarine combat, which is called anti-submarine warfare (ASW). Those terms will come back for those who are interested, like you, Mr Top. The new frigates should be able to detect the underwater threat as far away as possible and thus beyond enemy torpedo range. The mix of sensors needed to realize that stand-off ASW concept will be investigated in collaboration with the Netherlands. The possibility to provide the future multi-purposes with an exoatmospheric shooter capacity is for study, but it is foreseen that the provisions for are taken from the beginning. So they are not built in, but the arrangements for them have been made, so that adjustments can be made, in whatever form, in the framework of ballistic Missile defence. The current planning provides for the delivery of a first new Belgian multi-purpose ephemeral in 2027, followed by the second one in 2028.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. Of course, it goes without saying that we will equip the new frigates as well as possible to what is possible today. You say you will investigate the equipment for the atmospheric ballistic missiles. The ship will be able to be equipped with it anyway, but apparently it has not yet been decided whether or not we will buy it. Do we investigate the possible purchase and its possible usefulness together with the Netherlands? Is the Netherlands of the same opinion? I assume that the equipment of the frigates with atmospheric ballistic missiles is not provided for funding. If this is done, it will require an additional investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u27	I can answer that very briefly. The Netherlands is already involved in a BMD project. BMD is not something one only looks at, that one should look at together with partners. In this context, we have said that we would certainly equip our frigates with provisions for. This means that one can do a modular retrofit of a BMD system afterwards. But it could also be about radar technology, for example. The question arises as to what contribution can or should be made. I myself am absolutely in favour of going along with that. That threat is pertinent and present. Protection is part of our collective obligations. That's my personal opinion. Today there is no provision, neither financially nor in principle. The acquisition of such new capacity requires a separate government decision in any case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u28	Madam President, Minister, on a political program recorded by regional television Notélé on April 20, Minister Marie-Christine Marghem spoke as part of the Terrain Populaire project. As a reminder, a neighbourhood committee based in the Luchet d'Antoing wanted to be able to occupy a field belonging to the Defense to carry out a series of sports and cultural activities in order to energize the life of the neighborhood. The Minister stated that "the Minister of Defence wanted to grant part of this land free of charge to this ASBL in order to achieve its objective". Is it correct, Minister, that you wanted to grant a part of the Luchet d'Antoing field belonging to the Defence for free to the Neighbourhood Committee? If so, when and how was the committee informed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u29	Madam Chair, Mr.Delannois, in accordance with my statements, my services forwarded to the ASBL Terrain populaire, dated June 2, 2017, the state authorization that she had requested. The amount of the fee was limited to the amount intended for the FPS Finances. It's the Finance FPS who decides. The annual fee has been set by the FPS Finance at EUR 10 per area, for a total of EUR 2,271 per year. This fee was expected to be paid annually, but, following a request from the Neighbourhood Committee, the FPS Finances has given its approval, on an exceptional basis, to allow it to be paid monthly. As the terms of this federal authorization were not honoured by the association, a reminder was sent on 2 August 2017. The president of the ASBL announced, in an e-mail dated 14 September 2017, that the association could not undertake to sign the convention, and the land was restored in its original state.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u30	Madam President, Minister, June 27 is a great day! Since the beginning of the legislature, this is the first time that we have really agreed. Everything you've said is correct. I have a copy of the agreement. This land was not actually given free of charge. An amount of 2,271 euros was to be paid, which I can possibly admit. We also agree that Mrs Marghem lied. I pity you for having to work with people who say white in Brussels and black in Tournai. MCM: Lying is sick. We agree on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Crusnière's 25924 has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 25973 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u32	Madam President, Minister, at the Council of Ministers on 25 May the public contract for a multi-annual framework agreement on services relating to the outsourcing of the guard of four different quarters was approved, namely KMS, Melsbroek, Rocourt and Poelkapelle. This decision follows on the pilot project concerning the outsourcing of the guard in the barracks de Hemptinne in Heverlee. Since it is a pilot project, this would be evaluated and further steps would be taken on this basis. Mr. Secretary, can you explain to me the pilot project of the barracks in Heverlee? Can you also explain the evaluation of this project? Can the committee look into the evaluation report? What companies are the DOD appealing to outsource the guard? What are the selection criteria used? Can you explain the screening process? Can you indicate to what extent this has been a budgetary benefit for the defence sector? Why were these four quarters selected for the outsourcing of the guard? Do you plan further steps in the coming months regarding the outsourcing of the guard in other barracks?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u33	Madam President, Mr Yüksel, a negotiated procedure with publication was launched to implement this contract. Surveillance firms were able to apply and had to demonstrate that they met the legal exclusion criteria and also the specific requirements in the field of technical competence and data security, such as a valid recognition and authorisation of the Home Office and proof that they had sufficient qualified personnel, i.e. at least 200 persons of whom at least 30 were granted a valid arms clearance permit. They shall also provide proof of a reference contract carried out in the last three years. In addition, they must have an internal or equivalent training and training structure for the staff. In the field of data security, the company had to demonstrate that it had a valid security clearance of the "secret" level. At the time of award, security agents deployed shall have a valid security clearance of the level "confidential'. The first lessons that could be drawn were the preparation of the specifications and the conduct of the procedure, on the one hand, and the start-up of the performance of the contract, on the other. In order to maximise the spread of investment costs linked to installed techniques and staff training, a certain duration of the contract is required. The screening of security personnel was increased to the level of "secret', at the request of the ADIV. In Heverlee a concrete cost reduction of 20% was achieved. However, this saving in Heverlee does not necessarily have to be the norm for other military quarters, as the crew of the military guard can vary greatly from one quarter of an hour to the next. The start-up period for the contract was set for Heverlee at three months, which was too short. In the future, for the allocation to new quarters, that period will be four months. This period allows the firms to place the necessary techniques and to train the security agents properly for their specific tasks. Different criteria were taken into account when planning the outsourcing. For example, per cluster of quarters or geographically nearby quarters one looks at the evolution of the workforce. Based on the speed of the outflow of the personnel into a cluster, the outsourcing is planned. To ensure optimum staffing, the roll-out of the outscourcing is spread over time. Quite specifically, if we outsource one quarter of an hour within a cluster, the outsourcing in surrounding quarters will be less rapid, because staff can still be employed without large movements. Outscourcing is therefore absolutely not a measure to discharge staff, but rather to absorb the discharge and deploy the remaining staff where necessary. Planning for the future was proposed to trade unions, but will focus primarily on the implementation of the new contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u34	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I have two further questions. Firstly, in Heverlee a saving of 20% was achieved. What is the minimum you want to achieve with the exercise, by barracks or in its entirety? Secondly, how do the military in the barracks react to the outsourcing of contracts to the private sector? Did you evaluate that response to the project in Heverlee? You spoke of four-month periods. Does this mean that the current four selected barracks are part of a pilot project? Or is the surveillance going to be permanently done by a private company from now on?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u35	Madam President, it is of course interesting to save, but that is not the first objective. I have just said that the objective is precisely to be able to cope with redundancies so that the staff left over can focus on the effective tasks in the 15 minutes. That's what it's about in the first place. No minimum profit target has been set in this context. 20% is an extraordinary amount. During the preparation of the global project, an average of 10% financial profit was achieved. That should be achieved in principle. The pilot project started in Heverlee and now we are moving to a regime. That's basically what it's all about. I would like to invite the committee to come to Heverlee to look at the professional way things are carried out. Of course, this method always brings a bit of uncertainty for those directly involved, but I feel that Heverlee has adapted very quickly to the new situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u36	Madam President, Minister, on Sunday, June 10, in the morning, Nuke free zone activists were arrested after they managed to infiltrate Kleine-Brogel base. These activists wanted to denounce the presence of American nuclear warheads in Belgium for more than sixty years, in complete contradiction with both the spirit and the letter of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. These activists managed to force the protection barriers, walked on the take-off runway and literally swept for 35 long minutes on the site, which was presented as extremely secure. And because of it, it is home to weapons of mass destruction. Minister, how do you explain this huge flaw in the security system in and around Kleine-Brogel Air Base? Who is responsible for the security of this site? Is it Defence itself or a private firm? Do you intend to review the base's security features? How? What position will you stand on the future of US tactical nuclear weapons on Belgian soil at the NATO Summit in Brussels on 11 and 12 July? Are you considering asking the U.S. government to remove these bombs? Thanks to the 2017 Nobel Peace Prize awarded to ICAN, there is a unique opportunity to see one day the emergence of a treaty promoting the prohibition of nuclear weapons. Do you intend to defend this position at the NATO Summit next July? Indeed, it would rid you of the security concerns you experienced on the weekend of June 9 and 10.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of the Kleine-Brogel base is provided by Belgian military personnel and is based on the principle of in-depth protection. The mentioned activists were spotted as soon as they reached the outer fence of the base that is equipped with an anti-intrusion system. A response team visited the site within two minutes of the alert. Four activists were immediately arrested and the others hid in woods far from protected areas. Given this, and the fact that no weapon or dangerous object had been detected and confirmation that it was a pacifist action, it was decided to observe the intruders remotely and intercept them as soon as they crossed the runway. Base security was never compromised as the intruders were constantly monitored and were never able to approach sensitive areas. The activists were taken over by the local police 45 minutes after their action. There is no reason why the base security system should be revised. Nuclear capability will not be addressed at the NATO Summit in Brussels in July. Belgium's position on this matter falls within the competence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I therefore invite you to ask him about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u38	Mr Minister, the foreign policy of Belgium decided by your colleague in charge of foreign affairs has an impact on the way the air bases operate. Indeed, it is because Belgium is not very clear from the point of view of compliance with the non-proliferation treaty in force and because it is not proactive in the possible signing of a nuclear-weapon-ban treaty that activists have entered on the basis of which your administration, Defence, is responsible. These demonstrators obviously had a pacifist ambition. You said it yourself. They also had a political ambition to show the total contradiction in which our country finds itself by promoting on the international stage a world without nuclear weapons, while sheltering these nuclear weapons at defence-run air bases. We are no longer in the cold war and, moreover, these weapons are extremely expensive from the geopolitical point of view as well as from the budgetary point of view. The advantage of getting rid of these weapons that have become totally useless is that you would no longer have to deal with this kind of event, demonstration in a defence base.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u39	Madam Chair, Minister, Amnesty International released a new report entitled War of Annihilation on June 5, 2018. It deals with the fighting in the city of Raqqa in Syria, which opposed members of the Islamic State to coalition forces and Kurdish militias. The report, which raises the issue of the protection of civilians in the conflict, does not indicate that Belgium participated in the bombing of Raqqa. I know from our discussions in committee that this is of course not the case. In its conclusions, however, Amnesty International raises the general question of the responsibility of any State that is part of a coalition when abuses are committed by one of the other actors in the coalition. On this point, Amnesty International refers to paragraph 164 of the first Geneva Convention, which regulates the law of conflict. This specific paragraph highlights the need to "take proactive measures to stop violations and enforce conventions". Considering that the media and humanitarian organizations have reported numerous abuses committed against the civilian population by some of the coalition's components, including local militias supported by the Belgian armed forces, I would like to know what measures have been taken by the Defence to enforce the law of armed conflict by the latter since the beginning of the Belgian engagement in autumn 2014, in Iraq and later in Syria.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u40	Madam President, Mr Hellings, during each operation, a series of measures are taken to ensure respect for the law of armed conflict. The order of operation contains a specific annex containing the general principles relating to the law of armed conflict and the use of force and a list of clear and detailed rules of engagement. Any Belgian military receives a briefing on this subject before its deployment. Legal advisers (or LEGAD) are sent in operation to assist and advise the command. Generally speaking, respect for the law of armed conflict is an essential element of ongoing training for all actors involved at the Belgian level. Training in international humanitarian law is provided by the Royal Military School (RMC) or by the Armed Conflict Law Advisers, who are set up for different levels of command. Courses and briefings on international humanitarian law, human rights and criminal law are also provided by the Defence Legal Service to lawyers and military personnel who are on duty. In addition, key personnel participate in specific targeting trainings that are held annually within NATO or internally by the ERM. With regard to measures taken in support of coalition troops and/or militias, the Red Card Holder at the Combined Air Operations Center was accompanied by a LEGAD to advise him. The "Collateral Damage Estimation Process" method, which allows the assessment of collateral damage before each strike, is applied and strictly respected by the Belgian Defense. During each of our commitments to troops recognized by the Iraqi government, Defence ensures strict compliance with the Geneva Conventions. If abuses were found, the local judicial authorities would be alerted directly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u41	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answers. It is undeniable that, in the rules of engagement – this has been verified on many occasions – the Defence foresees zero collateral victims. There is no doubt, I am absolutely certain. What Amnesty International's report shows is that all our coalition allies do not show the same scruples and do not obey the same rules of engagement. In addition, this edifying document tells us that several abuses were committed in Raqqa. It is proven that the Islamic State has used human shields – we know its barbaric methods. Beyond humanitarian law – which must be respected in all cases, both by us, and by you, and by our allies – we must nevertheless question the effectiveness and impact of such measures of total war and annihilation – which is not nothing – on future generations. I am talking about children and parents, in a broad sense, about the victims of these abuses. We must ask ourselves how the successor of the Islamic State – and I hope that it will never be born – will draw from the resentment following such conflicts to re-establish war in another way in a few years' time. It is therefore the question of efficiency. I therefore believe that Belgium is absolutely right not to engage in a total war and annihilation. However, I have to put down a flat: our country is allied with armies that commit such acts. I am thinking of the American and British units, but also of the Kurdish and Shiite militias who, in Iraq and Syria, sometimes commit atrocious acts such as those included in the Amnesty report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u42	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Chabot has converted 26146 into a written question. I would also like to point out that the last point is the joint question No. Mr Crusnière, No 26338. 26349 of myself and No. 26358 by Mr Dallemagne was postponed. I met my fellow questioners and agreed to postpone them. That means that we have now arrived at the last question for today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u43	Madam President, Minister, last week I tabled my question on the chrome-containing paint that would have been used or used in Dutch barracks. The question was, above all, to what extent this also had Belgian repercussions. I will be very open, after all, I am not used to attending the Defence Committee at all. It is rather a coincidence that the information has been communicated to me. This was the result of a Dutch television programme in which I was questioned about the case. I fell completely out of the sky, which I was not blamed for. After all, I don't normally deal with DOD. In the Netherlands, however, it is a major problem. Reports have already been published on this subject. In the meantime, you may have read the report. I also have the report myself, if it is the report on which it is concerned. In the report it seems as if there is a certain causality between the use of the paint and certain symptoms of illness. It would even prove a certain responsibility and mean culpa, even as a result of damages. However, the latter remains to be seen. After the broadcast of the TV programme, which is broadcast live in Dutch Limburg, I spontaneously received a number of emails from Dutch soldiers that same night. After all, Belgian soldiers cannot watch the broadcast. They told me with certainty that this would also be the case in barracks and bases in Belgium and Flanders and that the paint would have been used there. It would also have been used in Limburg. After all, immediately the Limburg connection also arose. That is why I tabled my question at some point, namely to ask for your position on the matter. The general question that has been raised in my question is intended to examine the situation and the situation with regard to the dossier. Are you aware of the problem? Can you confirm or deny them? After all, there have already been certain signals. Above all, there is the following question: how will we deal with the problem? On the one hand, it is important to know your position on the way in which we deal with the appliances that wear such paint and on which work needs to be done. Apparently, the dangers arise at the time when the equipment is being worked on. During sanding and welding, substances would be released. On the other hand, what will we do with all those who have worked on the aircraft in the past and would therefore have an increased risk of the disease being affected? How will we deal with that? Minister, I would like your opinion on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u44	Minister, I also have a question about this myself. The introduction has been given. So I'm going straight to my questions. Mr Minister, are these types of chrome-based paints also used by our defense? Where exactly are they used? Is that in Little Brogel? Is that in Zutendaal, too? How many people come into contact with that paint when it's used? What are the risks associated with the use of chromium 6? Has a risk assessment been made? Are preventive measures taken to protect staff? Have any complaints been received from staff who might be related to chromium 6? How are these complaints handled?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u45	Madam President, Mr Terwingen, the chromium 6 problem is not new. We are aware of this and I already answered a question from Mr Top in 2015. If I remember correctly, Mr Top said at the end that it is a good thing that we are taking preventive action. In the late 1990s, the use of chromatic ground layers was completely banned for land systems and replaced with chromatic ground layers. This means that since the late 1990s those who work with land vehicles have not come into contact with them. For aeroplanes, there were no replacement products until 2013 that could achieve the required level of corrosion protection. Only since 2013, the paint industry has an equivalent replacement. It has been used by the Defense Department since 2014. So today, no more chromatic paints are applied to the Defense Department. However, as you pointed out, Mr Terwingen, chromatic paint can still be present on parent material today. In the case of maintenance works on such equipment, appropriate processes and management measures have therefore been replaced, which take into account the exposure risks, as is the case for other substances. There are still volatile substances. They are always reduced by the progress of the technologies, but there are still other dangerous substances that need to be dealt with from time to time. These processes and management measures are monitored and reviewed periodically in the context of the dynamic risk management system required by law. Madam President, it is not just a risk analysis that is being carried out. It is a dynamic data that is repeated regularly. Defence provides personal protective equipment, such as custom masks, overalls, gloves and eyeglasses, for the units in charge of the maintenance of the F-16s. The filter systems in the paint booth and the bearing material shall be periodically verified for traces of chromate. Chrome 6 is carcinogenic. Additional and periodic health surveillance is provided for all personnel in contact with dangerous substances, including those who might or might have come into contact with chromium 6. So far, Defense has no knowledge of health complaints that would be related to this problem. Mr Terwingen, I can add the following. I heard your question on TV Limburg. I also gave an answer yesterday to TV Limburg, which will be broadcast this afternoon. People who would individually doubt whether it is sufficient for periodic checks to be carried out can contact their company doctor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u46	In the meantime, Minister, my question had already been submitted to the committee secretariat, where you could have seen it. Minister, I am glad that you acknowledge the fact. That's important. I do not want to force you to reply again, but perhaps I should have just said that those who are currently in contact with chrome-bearing devices for prevention should wear certain protective suits, and so on. I understand that since a few weeks every work on these devices has stopped, probably until there is more information about the report in the Netherlands and an additional safety can be built in? I would, of course, welcome the fact that this is done if there are reasons for doing so. Apparently, people are no longer so sure that wearing security suits is enough. Of course, you do not have to respond to this. I did not mention this in advance in my question. The call you made on TV Limburg is of course important. I understand that this is mainly about air bases, because chromium 6 was still used there after the 1990s. Before the 1990s, because the file in the Netherlands deals with the use since the 1970s, chromium 6 was used for all appliances. A call on TV Limburg to report to the GP may not be enough. It is a first step, but perhaps it could be considered proactively to look for people in the Defence Department, not only in the Air Force, but also in the Army and perhaps in the Navy, to see if they had to work with chromium 6. Perhaps you can also map the maintenance of the vehicles and look at the sick images of the people who worked on them, as the Dutch have done. Maybe you can also proactively check these people for disease images associated with this chrome story. You have already reassured me with your body language, but if the current way of working, with security suits, would not be satisfactory, as can be seen from the fact that work has been stopped for two weeks, it is better that these people are not at risk from now on until they have been provided with additional information. That is my appeal to you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u47	Mr Terwingen, uncertainty has arisen at some point. The fact is that they had personal protective equipment, but because of the events in the Netherlands and the anxiety that ensued, the question was asked whether they were all sufficient. I have also indicated that risk management is a dynamic fact. Additional measures have indeed been considered. I understand that everyone is once again active, taking all the measures into account. You suggest that individuals should automatically report to the Defense Department if they see a causal link with the use of such products. We're not just gonna let our people go. But to start a country-wide project to detect who has ever come into contact with it and to what extent is a very big step. We must then go back to the period of compulsory service, and we must also be able to document who served where and when. That is not clear, and that would be a very great effort. I was informed by the medical services that no cases of causality are known today. As I said to Mr Top at the time, the Netherlands is moving very quickly to new technology today, but in the past we were in favour of our neighbouring countries in terms of personal protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u48	Minister, I fully agree that we should not blow things up, but we have a serious problem here. In the meantime, I have received emails from Belgian soldiers who make it clear that they are afraid to talk about it. Once again, I have a duty of secrecy, which I will certainly respect, but there are signs that people are afraid to talk about it. That's just a determination. That scared me. That's not a reproach to you. It has been known for decades, over legislative periods and over ministers of all kinds that there is a problem with chromium-6. So it's not about that at all. I understand that it would be a very great effort, but I still believe that it should be delivered. It's about public health. In particular, when it comes to the health of people who have worked, fought for the homeland and given their lives, it must be possible to do so. I believe that this can somehow be filtered, that it can be cleverly handled. After all, there are limited staff who have done this work. It's about hundreds, maybe thousands of people. The Belgian State has a responsibility not to miss a chance to help these people who have done those jobs for the homeland. We need to see what we can do for them. In this respect, the Netherlands has a different culture, but certainly not a worse one, when one sees how they have dealt with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic936x.u49	Thank you, Minister.
