ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u1	Mr President, Minister, my question is quite simple. You know, like me, the situation of OCAM and the absence of a French-speaking assistant at the head of this important body. This absence of a French-speaking assistant further reinforces the linguistic imbalance in the high levels of safety and security in our country. When can we hope for the commitment of this French-speaking assistant? Are there any changes to this position? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u2	Thank you Mr.President, Mr. Frédéric, the Deputy Director-President of the OCAM was appointed, on 9 August 2016, as Deputy Prosecutor-General of Brussels. In the event of resignation, a new appointment must in principle take place for the remainder of the term of office. Nevertheless, the commission of inquiry into the terrorist attacks in Zaventem and Maelbeek has in the meantime examined the security architecture of our country. On the basis of the recommendations of this committee, the Minister of the Interior and I are currently working on an adaptation of the OCAM legal framework. In this context, it was considered preferable to wait until the end of this fiscal year before appointing a new Deputy Director.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u3	Minister, do I have to understand that this work that you are working with the Minister of Safety would consider the removal of an assistant French-speaking director from the OCAM? Is that what I need to hear? I tend to say "who doesn't say word consent"...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u4	We never talk about a Dutch-speaking president or a French-speaking vice-president in the law or the order, Mr. Frédéric, you know that very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u5	J'en prends note.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u6	Minister, we have been very recently questioned about the lack of psychiatric care for inmates in the Lantin Psychiatric Annex. This situation has been going on for months. I have already asked you a number of questions on the subject. Today we learn (at the time of my question) that the situation has hardly changed in five months. If, in April, the resignation of the psychiatrists of the CHR of La Citadelle were replaced, this is only partially. The multidisciplinary team responsible for the day-to-day monitoring of therapeutic management remains very decimated: only two people remain in office but, given the pressure on their shoulders, their absences are also frequent. Other positions (e.g. occupational therapist, psychologist, psychiatric nurse) are still not filled, while some have been vacant for several months. Minister, I would like to refer you to the questions of the Chairman of the Supervisory Committee of the Lantin Prison. How, under such conditions, can we ensure decent care for such prisoners, most of whom are interned and therefore found irresponsible? Is it not possible for the new psychiatrists in office to draw the same conclusion as their predecessors by declaring it impossible to perform their duties properly without the support and follow-up of a multidisciplinary team? When will these internees benefit from a place in a social defence institution? What follow-up do you intend to give to this mail?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u7	Mr Frédéric, I cannot deny that the situation in the annex to the Lantin prison is not appropriate. However, various steps and actions have been taken - and some have been closed in the meantime - to ensure the care of these detainees and internees. There are currently two active psychiatrists in the prison. A third will join the team next July, a fourth in October and we are still looking for a fifth. For the position of nurse, the recruitment procedure is closed and a nurse will be assigned in the near future. In the absence of the social worker Care and the educator, the coordinator of the Care team is in the process of determining, together with the inmate support service, the time frame for intervention and whether this also relates to urgent social demands. The Inspector of the Central Psychosocial Service ensures, together with the local social worker, that she is in a good position to accommodate incoming prisoners and to manage, where appropriate, the most urgent administrative releases. Depending on this response, the possibility of using an additional social worker to provide receptions could be considered. The coordinating psychiatrist lists the requests for psychological follow-up to be directed to the inmate support service and their priority level. Finally, management called on mobile teams to solicit more interventions from them within the Annex. DG PPE is making every effort to ensure adequate conditions for the operation of this team to be consolidated. The placement of interned prisoners depends on the capacity to receive them, the circuit of external care, the evolution of the patient's condition, the evolution of the waiting list of the Paifve Social Defence Institution and the Regional Centre for Psychiatric Care Les Marronniers, as well as the decisions taken at the level of the courts for the enforcement of sentences, particularly in their social protection chamber. In the very near future, I will submit to the government an action plan aimed at a significant investment in the support of prisoners and internees in prisons. The focus will be on medical-psychosocial staff, both in medical services and in psychosocial services, with additional investment from the services that depend on the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u8	Minister, thank you for that answer. Some things move slowly. A project is under consideration and we will be very pleased to see it as soon as possible. Mr Minister, with our excellent chairman, Mr Goffin, and our excellent colleague, Mr Maingain, on 23 March, we had the opportunity to see - I think Mr Goffin will not contradict me on this subject - the extremely difficult conditions under which the teams are forced to work. I know you know the prison environment well, but we've seen it with our eyes. I have a lot of admiration for the work that is being done there under extremely difficult and challenging conditions, in our time at least, with sick and extremely fragile people. I will not fail to follow this matter very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u9	Question No 25824 by Mr Vanden Burre is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u10	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to come back to the problem of the recidivism of traffic, as a result of current events. In the press we read how a 44-year-old drunk man caused a fatal accident. The unsub didn't seem to be interested in his test piece. He has already been convicted 41 times by the police court, including for driving under the influence and driving without a driver's license. At the time of the accident, the unsub would have been free for four days, after a conviction to two years in prison. Even at the time he caused the accident, the unsub had to be banned from driving, but apparently he was driving, despite the decay. Minister, in reply to a previous question on traffic repeaters, you responded positively to the question of whether pro-active controls can be carried out on the initiative of the public prosecutor or of the police in the event of a suspicion of abuse. You replied, however, that these controls are limited and that the full integration of the Mercury database is awaited in order to allow a comprehensive and comprehensive control via the ANPR cameras. In view of the perpetrator's past, he should be well known at the public prosecutor's office or police services and thus be subject to proactive controls, hence the following questions. Were there any proactive checks of the lapse of the right to send to the perpetrator of the accident? If no, why not? Do you consider it necessary to extend those proactive controls pending full integration of the Mercury database? If so, can you give an instruction? With regard to the criminal record of the person concerned and the execution of the sentence, how many of his two years of imprisonment had the man been effectively subjected to at the time he was released? Were there certain conditions attached to his release?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u11	Mrs Van Cauter, I can tell you that on 7 February 2018, I indeed said that there are effective proactive checks on repeaters and persons who violate the driving ban at the request of the public prosecutor or at the initiative of the police themselves. Therefore, pending the full operationalisation of the Mercury database, I should not give any new special instructions to the police or the public prosecutor. The infringements of the driving ban are taken very seriously by these services. As regards the execution of the sentence, the person was imprisoned since 20 October 2017 for con, forgery and theft. On 17 May 2018, he was suspended in order to continue his execution under electronic supervision. The interruption of the sentence is subject to the condition that no criminal offence is committed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u12	Minister, you did indeed respond positively in February with regard to these proactive controls. I can only appreciate that. However, you also said at the time that these controls were limited. If it is found that it continues to be repeated, not only in this case, but also in this case, would you not be able to consider tightening up the instruction? It's just a question I'd like to ask you politely. I believe it is necessary and practice teaches us that this is also the case effectively. With regard to conditional release or electronic surveillance, we can only repeat the need for monitoring and monitoring. I believe that we do not disagree on this, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u13	Mr Minister, once again we are faced with the fact that a sentenced person with a fairly extensive criminal trail, who was given new opportunities every time in the execution of the sentence, despite the fact that it went wrong every time, and who even during his detention caused a lot of problems, up to arson, from the criminal execution court in the context of a reintegration process, was allowed to leave the prison. That man, according to the press, would have been entered on the CelEx list of radicalized prisoners. Minister, you very recently announced that prisoners who have been radicalised should be given an additional screening before they could leave prison by means of a penalty mode. The directive only covers night-time permits and penitentiary leave. Do you not think, Minister, that it would be useful to instruct the court to re-examine the case in the case of long-term criminal proceedings in the event of signs of radicalisation? Referring to your initiative on screening in criminal execution procedures, will you give the same policy instruction to the Public Prosecutor to ensure that the penalty execution procedures provided for radicalised prisoners of the criminal execution court are re-submitted to the court for review? What forms of punishment have the person concerned enjoyed so far? Were the conditions violated in the past and to what extent? Was the criminal court aware of the radicalisation? Has the prosecution informed the criminal court that he was on the CelEx list? I take it the D.A. was aware of the recording, right? Where are we on the rollout of l+Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u14	Minister, last week's headlines could count again: after a 30-hour manhunt, a radicalized prisoner could eventually be brought back in again. Apparently he enjoyed limited detention, but didn't return to prison in time. Fortunately, the alarm was immediately sounded, given his past and background. After all, the prisoner was registered as radicalized and in the past he had repeatedly violated his favors. So he hadn't returned a few times and, more beautifully, he had even cut his anklet once. That, of course, immediately creates a déjà vu, especially after the facts in Liège. The fact that such decisions are made is disturbing. Even though the separation of powers applies, since it was a decision of the criminal court, such a decision remains no less worrying, all the more so because many radicalised people in prison are soon approaching their end of sentence and are legally eligible for many favors, such as limited detention and half-freedom. It is therefore important that those who have to decide on such measures, whether it be the criminal court or the SURB or your delegate or yourself, have all the relevant information and thus have access to, inter alia, all relevant lists, prison records and information from penitentiary officers. Moreover, this should not only be mandatory for radicalised prisoners, but also for any detainee who may pose a danger to our society. I agree that reintegration and preparation for the return to society are important, but the security of our society is of course also important, hence my questions, Minister. When the SURB has to decide on a favor measure, does it know whether or not the applicant is on the CelEx list? Is that information in the file or is it attached to the opinion submitted to the criminal enforcement court? If not, does it not seem urgently necessary to grant access to the SURB or at least ensure that such information is included in the dossier or opinion submitted to the SURB? In the meantime, a directive on prison leave and night-time permits was issued after Liège with regard to radicalised detainees. Will the same directive be given to the Public Prosecutor for the penalties for which the SURB is competent? Finally, will you consult with the College of Attorneys General, so that they would also issue the necessary guidelines in the context of criminal policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u15	I cannot, of course, go into the full criminal and penitentiary route of certain people, but I can say the following. The person concerned was included on the CelEx list of the prison system, under the second category, convicted or suspected of common-law offences in which the judgment or judgment is linked to known terrorists. So he wasn't convicted of terrorist crimes himself. In principle, the federal court, and thus the prosecution, is in possession of the CelEx list, but not in an electronic manner. In order to improve the flow of information on the CelEx list but not in the common database of OCAD, I am preparing a royal decision that will transform and include the entire CelEx list in the common database of OCAD. To this end, the Public Prosecutor has automatic electronic access. The current issue of the execution of certain radicalised convicted persons is discussed and discussed with the prosecution, including within the expertise network Terrorism of the Public Prosecutor. One of the subjects is precisely access to the members of the prosecutor's office in criminal courts to common databases of terrorist fighters and hate propagandaists, the sixth and seventh categories, which we have introduced into the database of OCAD. The working group will examine the guidelines to be issued and the results will be presented to the College of Attorneys General. The aim is to make progress in the medium term in the development of I+ Belgium. It is an IT application created at local level such as I+Hainaut, which manages the follow-up of the conditions by the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Police Departments, the Courts and the DG EPI. The conditions and data will be entered by the client into the system and communicated to the supervisory authorities, which in turn can communicate findings directly and in real time to the client. Work is currently under way on a comprehensive legal framework and the necessary discussions are being held with the Communities. From the beginning of 2019, the system will be rolled out nationally.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. If I have understood you correctly, the prosecution is aware of the inclusion of an inmate in the CelEx list. I can understand that it is much easier when things can be transmitted and accessed electronically, but if one is aware of this, it should be obvious that one also acts and does something with the information available. Minister, I speak in general terms and I do not want to focus on a particular dossier. The reality has taught us that radicalism and the crimes that may result from it can have terrible consequences. We can only be vigilant enough if we do something with the information we have at our disposal. Whether or not information is digitized can not be an excuse not to take it to heart and deal with it properly. It is, of course, a good thing that we are working on directives to ensure uniform applications and best practices are implemented everywhere. However, I did not hear you say anything about my other question. If one finds through the Security of the State, through the OCAD or through internal information in the prisons that someone has been radicalised and that this long-term punishment is allowed to leave the prison, will the prosecution then take the initiative to refer the matter back to the criminal execution court for review? Perhaps that is still under consideration or is still under development. I hope that consideration will be taken into account in the drafting of the directives. As far as I+Belgium is concerned, Minister, I would ask you to act appropriately and quickly. Follow-up and control are essential if people are to be released in a safe way for the purpose of reintegration, someone with certain modalities and under certain conditions. That cannot be said and repeated enough. As far as information sharing is concerned, the platform exists, it works and it has proven its worth. I can only insist that all the actors, the judicial assistants, the public prosecutors and the police, share and use the information they have in a file, which can be very crucial, especially when they are put together.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u17	Minister, I recently read in an article that many radicalised people are about to be released because they are at the end of their sentence. We must ensure that the information is given where it is needed, namely to those who have to make a decision. I am pleased that the prosecution already has the paper list and will soon be able to access the database to which the data are automatically added. That's good. I am happy that a working group will elaborate on the subject. However, there is an emergency. That needs to be fixed quickly. The next thing is perhaps a little simplistic of mine. I believe that the decision-making body should also have access to the list or database. I did not hear you say that the criminal court itself can take note of the information. Just as an information bulletin or criminal record is added to a criminal record, it makes sense that that information should also reach the person who has to make the decision. The fact that the public prosecutor knows about the information, all the better, can be brought forward, but anyone involved in the granting of a favor or the assessment of the release of a prisoner must have all relevant information at his disposal. In this way, he or she can make a good decision with all the information that is available, and the security of society is, of course, a very important criterion. I hope that you will also take to the working group the consideration that the SURB should have access to such information. Perhaps my idea is too simplistic, but it is very difficult to defend that people who have to make an important decision do not have all the necessary data.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u18	In order to avoid confusion, I would like to point out that the prosecution does have full access to the database of OCAD. However, two new parts were added to the database: the homegrown terrorist fighters and the hate propagandaists, and at the moment an arrangement is being put in place to enable the prosecution to access them. Therefore, do not think that the Public Prosecutor has no access to OCAD's electronic database. That would be a mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u19	So, Minister, there is no electronic access, but there is access to the data when there is consultation with the Central Service? If there are signs of radicalisation, the Cell Extremism, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the OCAD and the security services together will review the data to determine whether a sentenced person should be included on the CelEx list. The prosecution is aware of this and can therefore pass that information on to the prosecutor who is or should be handling the case at the time. Or is there also a legal obstacle to this? Or did I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u20	You may not have fully understood me. There are two different lists. There's the OCAD's data list and there's the list of CelEx. The public prosecutor has no doubt electronic access to the OCAD list. Anyone on the OCAD list is automatically on the list of CelEx. The list of CelEx is a little more specific, because it's about the prison system. As a rule, all those on the CelEx list are also on the OCAD list, but not always. The Public Prosecutor's Office has electronic access to the OCAD list and has physical access, via the parquet, to the CelEx list. My intention is to completely integrate the two lists...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u21	Today, too, is it known?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u22	... because I prefer that there is no overlap.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u23	And if you know of alarming elements, is there any initiative to bring the file back before the criminal court?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u24	You ask me that question, but I must remind you that the parole in our country is independent. I can be very helpful in coming up with guidelines, but I would prefer you to ask about that detail. In any case, I will ensure that the directives in this area leave nothing to be desired.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u25	Minister, the person concerned would be known as the person who would have radicalized Benjamin Herman in prison. He had a criminal trail with facts like theft, assault and robbery. He had to go to jail. He would have been detained as a result of new facts and temporarily released by the council chamber. We would also be dealing here with a man who would have been included on the OCAD list as an IS recruiter, hence my questions, Minister. Is that information correct? I will not ask the question about the penalties because it is about the penitentiary course. What conditions were imposed on him by the council? Is it true that the person concerned was on the OCAD list? Was that information available to the council room? Who vouched for the succession and control?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u26	Minister, Fouad B., the person who may have radicalized Benjamin Herman, was released on 22 May under a number of conditions, after having been free since January with an ankle bracelet. One of those conditions was to follow a deradicalisation process, which he apparently wiped his feet at. Before his release, he was in remand in the context of a terrorist investigation and was on the terrorist list of the OCAD. After Fouad B. had announced that there was a new attack in Liège, he was arrested 24 hours later by the police. Muriel Targnion, the mayor of Verviers, stated in an interview that she was angry because she was not informed that for six months someone had been established in her city who was on parole and known as extremist. Mr Minister, how come someone with such a profile, who apparently didn't live up to his terms, could still walk freely? My colleague Hans Bonte has tabled a bill requiring prisons to inform the mayor and the chief of police of the municipality where the convicted person usually stayed in advance, if an extremist was to be released. Would you be able to find that proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u27	Mr President, the person you speak of was suspected of terrorist acts while serving his sentence and was released on 22 May 2018 under conditions by the Liège Council Chamber. He was then definitively released from prison for his initial facts and his remand with regard to the offences committed in prison was suspended. So he had no more punishments in execution, because he had served a previous sentence to four years in full. The person concerned is therefore clearly the subject of an ongoing judicial investigation, which will keep me safe from communicating to you matters which are part of its secret. Besides, I don't have access to the investigation. Moreover, the debates at the council chamber session take place behind closed doors, as is the ruling. There is also the secret of the deliberations. The person concerned was again questioned by the judicial police after the facts, committed in Liège by the Liège perpetrator, and was not again arrested in consultation with the investigating judge. It is only later, when he came into contact with the journalist, that he was again arrested. So I cannot answer your questions about the information that was known at the council room about how the council room exempted the person, about the conditions that were imposed on him and which he or she has violated and whether he or she is still known and is being prosecuted for other facts. In general terms, however, I can make it clear that a suspect who is free under conditions, under the supervision and supervision of a judicial assistant and that the police services are also responsible for the control of the conditions imposed by the council chamber. The exemption and the conditions imposed shall be communicated to the Central Criminal Register and to the police department of the municipality in which the person concerned is domiciled or resident, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 37 of the Law on provisional detention. In the event of a breach of the conditions or of new facts, the investigating judge, whether or not through the court, shall be immediately notified with a view to the withdrawal of the freedom under conditions. That is what happened in this case. The person was again placed under arrest mandate and was placed under arrest mandate by the investigating judge after contact with the journalist. He's in remand in a detention center. Mrs Lambrecht, with regard to Mr Bonte's bill, which you mentioned, I can inform you that I refer you once again to Article 37 (2) of the provisional detention law, according to which the conditions and the exemption are communicated to the Central Criminal Register and to the police department of the municipality in which the person concerned has his place of residence or residence. For the execution of sentences - electronic supervision, limited detention and conditional release - I refer, among other things, to Articles 58, 62 and 63 of the external legal status law and to Article 20 of the law on police service. These decisions are all made public to the public prosecutor, to the local police chief of the local police of the place of residence or residence where the convicted person resides, to the police's General National Data Bank and, where appropriate, to the victim, the justice houses and the Electronic Supervision Centre. As you know, I have already taken several initiatives in the context of the inflow fluxes. I'll quote the next one. Foreign terrorist fighters, home grown terrorists and hate propagandaists are the subject of a follow-up in the common database containing all new information, such as in this case the placing under arrest warrant under electronic supervision and freedom on condition. Any new information recorded shall be notified to the competent local police by means of a visual warning signal. The local police will inform her mayor of this. The circular of 21 August 2015 has just been replaced by the one of 22 May 2018, concerning the exchange of information and the succession of terrorist fighters and hate propagandaists. It also provides that the police are to be informed without delay of any external movement of detainees falling within these categories. This notification has been made by automated mail since April 2017. The competent DirCo of the federal police, chairman of the local task force, shall inform the chief of police of the local police. In future legislation, I will continue to pay attention to the widest possible dissemination and exchange of data. The bill will certainly be used as inspiration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u28	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u29	Thank you, Minister. I am left with the question of how someone who refuses to follow these deradicalisation pathways can just walk around. You may refer to all kinds of articles, but the fact remains that that person was free and this is not really normal. You also refer to many articles that show that the police should be aware that someone is free again, but the practice shows that the mayor of Verviers did not know. That is why Mr Bonte urges you to approve his bill so that mayors are also informed in the first line when such people are free to move around.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u30	Mr. Secretary, the van of the deceased Mawda contained three unaccompanied underage aliens. Belgium is obliged to offer them protection and to use the Voogdij service, but that has not happened. According to the police chief of the zone, this didn't happen because an interpreter was missing. As a result, a specific document could not be completed. In order to determine whether a person can really be considered an unaccompanied minor, it is in principle the Ministry of Justice of the FPS that the minor should question, if necessary with the help of an interpreter, in order to understand his/her situation, identify him/her and analyse any identity documents and/or civil status documents he/she has with him/her. There is currently no official procedure for determining whether or not a young person arrested needs an interpreter. The police are just doing this on the feel. The Professional Association of Sentenced Translators and Interpreters is not surprised at all by this incident and has warned the government of the shortage of available interpreters for years. Re-evaluation and refinancing of the function of sworn interpreter, combined with better training of interpreters, is certainly necessary. That's why I have a few questions. Is it true that at the moment there is no official procedure for determining whether or not a young person arrested needs an interpreter and that the police do so for the time being? If so, how and when will you address and correct this? Is it true that the police still do not have access to the national register of sworn interpreters until today? The national report on the procedural rights of minor suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings or proceedings in the European Union of the association Defense for Children Belgium of 2017 once again highlighted an old very in the field of interpreters. There are not enough interpreters available for certain languages and specific dialects. Moreover, interpreters are not adequately paid by the State, which is not motivating. This means that interpreters no longer want to move. What measures have you taken and will you take to ensure that interpreters are available immediately and are reasonably reimbursed to increase their availability?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u31	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, a large proportion of young people found in the country are reported to the Voogdij department by the police and other authorities such as OCMWs, youth services and municipalities. In practice, young people are transferred as soon as possible to an observation and orientation centre in Fedasil, where they can relax and get all information about their rights, protection, legal and support options, procedures and their implications. If necessary, the intake will be done with an interpreter. In particular, the situation of unaccompanied minors who are victims of a crime or who have been arrested for committing criminal offences and who are subject to prosecution is at risk. Those who were not yet known are also reported by the police at the Voogdij department. If the services of an interpreter are used, this is not because of the reception and custody regulations but because of the implementation of Article 47a, Paragraph 6, fourth, of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This clearly indicates that an sworn interpreter should be called in if the victim or the person questioned does not understand or speak the language of the procedure. If an interpreter is not available, the person questioned shall be asked to make his own statement. The police do not yet have access to the national register. This will normally be done in 2019 after the acceptance committee has evaluated all the interpreters. Today, only members of the judicial order have access to the provisional internal register. Belgium has a very international society, which brings with it great diversity of languages and dialects. We therefore need a large number of interpreters. However, supply does not fully match demand growth. Since the beginning of this legislature, I have endeavoured to eliminate the delays in payment of allowances to interpreters, among others. Most of it worked. Today I do not have the budgetary room to bring about an adjustment of the rate. In order to increase availability on the ground, we will examine whether the use of videoconferencing will allow us to increase the availability of interpreters. Such a project could also reduce relocation costs and save time for interpreters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u32	Minister, you obviously have the will to improve the situation, because you know how bad it is, but it is difficult for you to wait until the videoconferences work. This will also cost a great deal, and we now have an acute problem. Bad things are happening now. The Professional Association of Translators and Interpreters also states that since the updating of the rates of interpreters in criminal matters, the compensation of interpreters for most languages from the Middle East and Central Asia, including various variants of Kurdish, Dari, Pashto, Arabic, Indian, and African languages has fallen by 10 percent instead of rising. So they get less money: they get 48 euros gross per hour. The interpreters, who are all self-employed, pay their own social security and taxes. Who wants to do that? No one, of course. Moreover, the same KB limited the so-called night rate, which is actually a double rate, from 22 to 6 hours, which used to apply from 20 to 8 hours. The increase in Saturday work compensation was also limited to 50%, where it used to be 100 percent, such as on Sundays and public holidays. That is, of course, one of the reasons why fewer interpreters are prepared to go back and forth outside normal office hours. The case will not be solved by experimenting with videoconferencing. You're in the news all the time, it's really limp everywhere, but you don't get any extra money inside the government. You're always a quiet person, which I think is a tremendous strength, but I don't understand why we're questioning you about this every week, why don't you put a lot harder on the table to pay these people decently, because then a lot of problems would have been solved. If we are to wait for the video conferences, then I am not at all reassured, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u33	Minister, the law of 7 May 1999 on games of chance provides that access to casinos and gaming venues is prohibited for magistrates, notaries, bailiffs and members of the police services outside the scope of their duties. The aim of this measure is to ensure impartiality with regard to the world of the game and to allow those professions to fulfil their duty without any influence from third parties. In Belgium, there is a double ban: a ban on games for members of those professions and a ban on gaming facilities to grant such persons access outside the scope of their duties. Each week, the list of persons exercising these professions is updated and introduced in the EPIS database, an electronic system that has existed since 2004 and contains a list of all excluded players. The question arises as to how conclusive this system is now that 9 000 police officers, so-called civilian personnel, were not even included in this list. Minister, I have four questions. Firstly, who feels responsible for this policy? Secondly, who is responsible for registering the members of the various professions? Thirdly, who will follow the registration? Who is responsible for registering the declarations of magistrates, notaries, bailiffs and policemen? Fourthly, do you have the guarantees that all the members of the professions mentioned in the law have been correctly registered in the EPIS database?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u34	Mrs Lambrecht, Article 54 (2) of the Gaming Act regulates the prohibition of access by members of the police forces outside the scope of their duties. The College of Attorneys General has clarified the application of this Article in the circular 14/2013. It clearly states that the prosecution of a police officer in breach of the prohibition in question must be carried out by the prosecution, in view of the need to preserve the credibility of the action of the law enforcement officers in terms of gambling. To date, therefore, the common interpretation for the judicial authorities has been that the exclusion of police officers has affected the staff with police powers, but not the supporting CaLog civilian staff. The exclusion of this group of people is a new fact for both Justice and the Gaming Commission. The Home Office transfers the list of members of the police forces to the manager of the EPIS database on a weekly basis. You should address my Home Affairs colleague if you would like more information on why his services are now choosing an extended interpretation of the ban on police access. The completeness and quality of these lists are based on confidence with regard to the authorities responsible for the professions within their competence. For example, Justice is responsible for forwarding the list of magistrates, bailiffs and notaries, while Home Affairs is responsible for the police. There is no control mechanism whereby the Gaming Commission can check the completeness.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will put the question to your colleague from the Interior, but that question just shows why it is going wrong. Surely it is not possible that there is not enough cooperation, which means that I have to wait another week to hear from your colleague why 9 000 people working in the police force are not included in that list.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u36	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Cauter's 26091 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u37	By law of 5 February 2016, Article 204 of the Code of Criminal Procedure introduced the obligation to lodge a declaration of appeal and an application to the Registry within the time limit of the appeal and to determine precisely the complaints brought against the judgment. Appelant could suffice by using a model determined by the King. Meanwhile, there is such a model form. In the field, this form is also available to those who wish to appeal at the Registry. It now appears that this works everywhere except in Brussels where those who wish to appeal have to take care of the form themselves, which may be problematic when it comes to a private individual who, for example, wishes to appeal against a previous judgment on the last day. Is it true that the form is available everywhere at the Registry for those who need it? Is it true that this form would not be available in Brussels and what is the reason for that? If the problem arises effectively, do you have a way to solve it? It can only improve justice and access to justice for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u38	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, instructions on the use of the grievance form, which should be available in all prisons, were sent to the prison directories in February 2016. The instructions entered into force on 1 March 2016. They imply that the prisoner who lodges an appeal against a judgment must be informed that the statement of appeal in prison is not sufficient. The Registry shall inform the inmate, when signing the deed, that he or she must submit to the Registry of the Court an application stating the complaints through his or her lawyer or other person giving him or her power of attorney. Thus, when signing the deed, the prison registry shall inform the prisoner that he or she must, through his or her lawyer or other person who gives him or her power of attorney, file an application stating the complaints at the Registry of the court which delivered the judgment or the Registry of the court or court of appeal. On that occasion, the Registry may indicate that there is a model form for that purpose. The Registry may deliver this at the request of the inmate. Following enquiries in the Brussels prisons, it has been established that the defendant who makes the appeal is systematically handed over the complaint form. He or she is asked to sign for receipt of the form, although the pro-active distribution of the form is not strictly defined. In one prison, however, it was found that the form was not handed over as before. In the meantime, the instructions have been recalled for correct application. No problems of compliance with the instructions have been identified in the other establishments. As there are no structural problems, further adjustment is not for the time being necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u39	Mr President, Minister, on your explanatory statement and appeal to those who are in prison, I would like to point out that my question actually concerned the Registry of the Courts. I'd like to re-subscribe them, too. At the Registry of the Courts, such a model form is available to private individuals and counsel, except in Brussels, where the courts have stopped making such a complaint form available. You can imagine the panic of a private individual who signs up for the last day and may not know the limitations and reasons of decay well, but at that time does not have the model form available.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u40	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, we have understood 'prison griffie' in all Brussels prisons. We didn't think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u41	Mr President, Minister, it seems that, by means of your questioning, there has already been a change in one prison, which is a good thing. If you could now do the same with the offices of the courts, we will catch two birds with one stone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u42	Mr President, Minister, the Act of 25 June 2017 on a change in the registration of sex in civil status documents, which entered into force in January 2018, allows transgender persons to officially change their sex registration and first name without medical conditions through an administrative procedure with the civil registry official. A law aimed at recognizing the full self-determination of transgender persons, but whose modalities are already problematic in practice. Indeed, if the law has led to a strong demand for change of identity card - and that is how it is - then a discrepancy quickly emerged between the time to obtain the change of sex and the time to obtain the change of name. If the change of sex can be made within three months, the change of name may take up to eight months. Many transgender people thus report the completely grotesque situation, according to which they end up with an identity card of one sex but with the first name of the other sex. This situation opens the door to false documents but also to judgments, mockery, towards people who, however, only wish to live in accordance with their gender identity. They also explain to us that this discrepancy may, in some cases, invalidate the identity card, with the risk of being denied access to certain online services such as MyMinFin, e-Mut, etc., a problem that would be linked to the assignment of a new national number. According to figures from the Institute for Gender Equality, which is responsible for combating all forms of gender discrimination, 11 per cent of all reports received by the Institute in 2017 concerned discrimination against transgender persons and 21 per cent concerned reimbursement of access to or supply of goods and services, and 11 per cent concerned health care. Therefore, Minister, is an assessment of the Act of 25 June 2017 and its impact on the consistency of the identity card planned or under way? If so, are there any avenues for a solution? Can the time to get the name change be reduced? If not, why? Do you confirm that the assignment of a new national number can have an impact on the validity of an ID card? How do you explain it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u43	Mr President, Mrs Caprasse, with regard to the deadline for obtaining a change of first name and for obtaining a change of sex, I can answer the following. Since the entry into force, on 1 January 2018, of the Act of 25 June 2017 relating to a change in the registration of sex in civil status documents, applications for the change of first names of transgenderes have been given priority in respect of other applications for change of first name. The duration of the administrative procedure shall be as short as possible. Nevertheless, the formality of registration of the ministerial decree, which allows for changes of first name, extends the duration of the procedure by at least one month. This formality is accomplished by the FPS Finances, on which my administration has no control. The change of name procedure will nevertheless be significantly shortened when the law on various provisions in civil law comes into force and the provisions to promote alternative forms of dispute resolution, which was passed on 7 June 2018 by the House of Representatives. The Act transfers jurisdiction over change of first name to the civil registry officers who are already competent with regard to change of sex, with the Act setting a maximum period of three months for the civil registry officer to make his decision and to transcribe, where appropriate, the change of first name in the civil registry. As a result of this transfer of skills, it will be possible to change the first name and change the registration of sex in civil registration simultaneously, which would require only one renewal of the identity card. The organisation and management of the national register of natural persons, such as the allocation of a national number and the issuance of identity cards, is the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. I therefore invite you to ask my colleague from the Interior about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u44	Minister, thank you for these explanations. I'll be sure to question Mr. Jambon to find out what's going on. I note, however, a positive development. I hope that we will continue to allow these people to take on this change, this choice of life, which, in any case, must be quite complicated, so that they can live in a normal way and in a certain well-being.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u45	Minister, gambling addiction is an increasing problem, especially among young people. For example, between 4.5 % and 7.5 % of Belgian pupils would have a gambling problem. Especially online betting is in the elevator, especially among young people. In order to tackle the gambling problem, it is important that players can set a daily and monthly expenditure ceiling for registration, as well as a maximum playing time. After all, the addictive elements in the online gambling games tempt gamblers to continue to wager money. A prior expenditure limit can partially avoid this. Article 8 of the Gaming Act states that a limit per game can be imposed by a royal decree. For example, a maximum amount may be imposed in relation to the player's bet, loss and profit. You have previously announced that you will issue a Royal Decree containing a maximum loss of EUR 500 per week. Do you also have plans regarding a KB over a maximum amount for the player's bet and winnings? Can you explain more about the timing of the planned KB? What stage is the development of the KB currently at?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u46	Mrs Van Hoof, it is correct that there is a royal decision to regulate advertising in which that amount of EUR 500 is important. That design of KB, to which you referred, implements Articles 43/8 and 61 of the Game Act, to further regulate online gambling. It is important and even essential that a player retains control over his expenses. Therefore, the RB introduces a rule on advertising in which a player has to think about his spending limits. For the time being, profit limits are not envisaged. However, a mandatory playing limit of 500 euros per week is imposed, which a player may charge to his online play account, both in terms of gambling and betting. The player may deviate from those limits, provided that he applies explicitly and is not known as a defaulter in the Centrale's stock for loans to private individuals of the National Bank of Belgium. The privacy committee issued its opinion on the draft of KB at the beginning of this month. There were no fundamental objections. KB's draft was adopted at the Council of Ministers on 1 June and the texts were sent to the Council of State for its opinion. The KB is therefore approaching its final phase, but it is still too early for concrete timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u47	Thank you for your reply, Minister. It is good that the KB is progressing, as gambling is becoming increasingly popular. It is important to continue to refer to Article 8 and its implementation, as regards the maximum amount of the deployment. One can also refer to the National Lottery, which also has online chance games. There are also clear limits set online. I hope that in future these can also apply to all sports betting, but it is obviously also up to the Gaming Commission to make proposals and take initiatives in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u48	Mr President, Minister, my introduction is the same as the one I just asked about the knowledge of the criminal prosecution court about detainees on the CelEx list. I refer again to the manhunt that was held on the radicalized prisoner who had not returned after his limited detention. He had repeatedly received favors, but had violated his terms or had not returned in time. It is painful when such things happen and on top of that, they are smeared in the media. We must look for solutions, because that is much more important than making a fuss about it. During the plenary session, I mentioned that the penitentiary officials actually know their pappenheimers very well. They see the prisoners daily, they talk to them and observe them. This contact is much more regular and intense than the contacts with the psychosocial services. Psych-social workers have the best intentions and work very hard, but they only see the prisoners occasionally, much less regularly than the penitentiary staff. That is why I am truly convinced that the penitentiary officials can play a very important role in information gathering and therefore also in the security culture within the prison walls. When that information flows, it can be used by people who decide on favor measures. Those who have repeatedly violated their conditions or are radicalising do not, in this way, get a limited detention again, as happened to the person concerned two weeks ago. Minister, to what extent is information from the prison officials systematically added to the prison file? Are these sheets submitted to those who are required to take the decision, including the SURB, the prison director and your delegate? If yes, are those sheets effectively added to the file, or only if and in so far as its content is included in the opinion provided? To what extent do these data sheets take into account the assessment of a file? I understand that the advice of psychosocial services is mainly taken into account. Perhaps more account could also be taken of what the penitentiary officials all know and pass on. Should there perhaps be greater value attached to the information provided by the penitentiary officials? Are these information sheets also being forwarded to the competent services who draw up the lists of radicalisation? That seems useful to me, too. I am thinking here of the debate we had a few weeks ago in the House on the facts in Liège. Finally, are you considering a transfer letter on this information gathering and sharing? It is difficult to solve this legislation, but you might be able to correct it by means of a letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u49	Mrs De Wit, officials record their observations daily in the registers available on the section. That information is being analyzed by other members of the psychosocial service. The daily observation sheets are not passed on as such, because they would bring with them an overload of information in which the proverbial cat would no longer find her boy. The quarterly evaluation reports are transmitted and analysed and processed by the central services. The internal information flux is regulated in the special instructions on extremism of the penitentiary administration. In addition, there are formal reports to the Director, in which officials report incidents and reportable facts. Those reports shall form a formal part of the record of the prisoner and may give rise to disciplinary proceedings or recourse to the prisoner. The relevant information contained in the documents previously mentioned shall be incorporated by the members of the PSD and the Director in their opinions on the terms of punishment. They are perfectly positioned to estimate the available information in terms of value and relevance, taking into account the context and information from other sources. From that moment on, that information can be considered validated and through that process the person or body who has to make a decision receives it in a nuanced manner. The information referred to here therefore clearly weighs into the decision as it is incorporated into the opinions. It shall be considered in particular in the light of the contra-indications laid down by the law for certain procedures of criminal execution. Currently, my services are updating the action plan on tackling radicalisation in prisons. In the context of this, we will examine whether the current procedures are satisfactory or whether additional teachings are necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u50	Minister, perhaps just to clarify: it would be useful to do so for radicalised prisoners, but it would be best for any prisoner who could pose a potential danger to society. One should actually look at it more broadly within the overall security culture in prisons. I hear the information is included in the reports. It is actually an intermediate step: the information on the chips is evaluated by the PSD and, if he considers the information relevant, it is taken. Because of the penitentiary officials I got the message that they feel that their information is not sufficiently taken, that their ears and eyes do not count sufficiently. It's a missed opportunity if we didn't go for it better. I do not want to undermine the hard work of psychosocial services, which sometimes do so in very difficult circumstances, but the proof of the pudding is in the eating and in Liège we have found that the information from the sheet did not end up adequately where it was to end up. I would therefore urge you to look at the flow and distribution of information and to use any source that may be useful in this to avoid certain situations of danger, so that a wrong decision is not taken ignorantly, which we can only complain about afterwards. We really need to watch over that, and I hope you will.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u51	Mr. Secretary, it's a little cynical. Justice is struggling with computerization and is still working with paper. Where one can work with a cloud, then it goes painfully wrong. Beveren's prison has been working with the latest technology for a long time, an online platform on which prisoners can order products directly from their cell, but due to an IT error in the digital order form, prisoners were able to order products for free for a long time. We frowned the eyebrows when reading this message. I suppose you did, too. A month ago, this mistake would have been discovered. Minister, what is the extent of this fraud at the moment? How many euros of damage have already been discovered? How long did the fraud last? What actions are being taken to recover all the lost revenue? After all, justice can use the money well. Is the recovery of the amounts possible at all, irrespective of the court ruling? How is it that this IT error is only now detected, whereas according to the inmates, the error has been in existence for years? How can it be that the loss of thousands or even tens of thousands of euros of income has never been discovered before? If goods are purchased and resold, one must quickly see a deficit. Is criminal investigations or disciplinary sanctions being initiated against detainees who abused them? If so, how many cases have already been started? If punishments have already been pronounced, what were they? Are there any other prisons that work with the same system? If so, which one? Is there any guarantee that the IT error doesn't exist there? Will DG EPI hold the technology manufacturer liable for the error and the damage suffered? Both this case and previous incidents, in which prisoners in Beveren were free to email the outside world via an error in a job offer site, raises questions about the safety and reliability of the digital systems that are being rolled out in prisons. Are there sufficient guarantees that digital applications are safe and that abuses can be prevented?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u52	Minister, due to an IT error in the Beverly prison's digital delivery system and cigarettes, at least 30 prisoners have managed to get tens of thousands of euros worth of free products. The thefts may have started in 2014, right after the opening of the cell complex. The digital thefts were discovered a month ago, partly due to an inexplicable hole in accounting. The ongoing police investigation has already shown that some fraudsters received up to EUR 5 000 in unpaid products. Minister, how is it possible that such a thing can happen unnoticed for years?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u53	Mr President, the prison in Beveren has been open for several years and works with new technologies such as ordering via an online system. The online cafeteria operates on the basis of a webshop system with credits purchased and which can be used in the cafeteria to make purchases. The proceeds of the credits are deposited in the account of the prison's collective cafeteria from which the suppliers are paid. The prepayment system also means that the amount of the collective cafeteria account is always greater than the value of the number of items purchased from the supplier. That makes it harder to quickly detect abuse. Initially, fraud was so small that no abnormalities were detected. In April and May there was an exponential increase in fraud which brought this up. As a result, all orders have been thoroughly investigated and canteen fraud committed during the past year, in most cases even during the last three months. The total amount of fraud is estimated at EUR 26 000. Pending a lasting solution to the problem, provisional measures have been taken to prevent further fraud. For the time being, the ongoing investigation is awaited before taking any further action to recover the lost revenue. A number of inmates have already indicated their willingness to compensate for the damage found. In addition, a sanction has been imposed on the fraudulent detainees, which means that they are not allowed to place canteen orders for 30 days. As far as the criminal investigation is concerned, the investigation is in the hands of the public prosecutor. The results of this study are awaited. The prisons in Leuze-en-Hainaut and Marche-en-Famenne work with the same canteen system. For security reasons, it is not possible to go into detail about the manner of fraud in Beveren's prison, but we can tell you that the problem with the canteen system in the two above mentioned establishments has not arisen. The additional safety in the system of order forms currently being developed for Beveren prison will also be applied in these two establishments. The manufacturer of Prison cloud, the system on which the digital order form runs, assists DG EPI in finding possible solutions. It is not because a mistake has now been discovered that one has to question the whole system. However, measures to maintain the safety of the system and to provide the system with alarm signals in the event of abuse are being pursued on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u54	Thank you for your answer. It's still hallucinating. We must do everything we can to prevent this from happening again. I know that human error can always happen, including in the field of computer science. But this prison is the most modern of all, with all the technology of the day. I regret that something like this is happening right there. In the end, that puts justice back in a bad light. That's the kind of thing we really need to avoid. We also need to look at a number of issues in order to be able to effectively avoid this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u55	One thing's not clear to me yet. The journalist may be wrong when he wrote that such practices have been under way since 2014. However, I read in your reply that it is about the last three months and perhaps the last year. That was my only question, which I do not know whether you can and wish to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u56	The information sharing keeps bothering me. Last week's case, to which I referred in my previous question, raised many questions about the sharing of information. It's about, among other things, what's called the SURB. What happens to the prison chips of the penitentiary officers? We know that the Interior and Justice Ministers have made a debrief specific to the situation of foreign terrorist fighters. It dates from 31 August 2015 and regulates the information exchange of these so-called FTFs. In a confidential letter dated 9 July 2015, the College of Attorneys General also adopted very clear guidelines on the exchange of information between judicial services. These Directives aim to ensure public security and improve the flow of information to and with local authorities. Today, therefore, the question arises as to whether the information flow system for FTFs in general should be extended to prisoners receiving favors, although in the past they have abused these favors and may pose a potential threat. You see, I would like every body to know what is happening or what may happen, in order to secure society and to be able to take action. I have a few questions about that. Are the current directives always being correctly observed? Are there any cases where local authorities were not informed about the temporary release of detainees to which the directives apply? Do you intend to generalise the scope of these directives to other types of detainees than just the FTFs?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u57	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, an adequate and sustained follow-up to the foreign terrorist fighters is an absolute priority. The guidelines in the Federal circular on the exchange of information and the follow-up of the FTF are always applied strictly by the various departments concerned within the penitentiary administration. Local authorities are properly informed when an FTF leaves prison and is on their territory. It is clearly communicated on which type of exit it is and when it effectively starts. Since the entry into force of these existing instructions, we are not aware of any cases where local authorities were not properly informed by the prison services. A number of complaints reached us mainly through the media. They were systematically verified and no anomalies were reported to me this year. The special instructions extremism of the penitentiary administration pay particular attention to the exchange of information and provide that for all radicalised detainees, who have been formally prevented as such, our judicial, police and security partners are immediately informed, when implementing all forms of criminal execution procedures and implementing modalities of internment. The Sidis Suite database has also provided an automatic flow of information for every movement outside the prison of this group of detainees since April 2017. In addition, the release of certain detainees, sentenced to a custodial sentence with partial probation delay, also immediately informs the courthouses that they have been given that probation delay so that a probation counseling can be initiated immediately. The same instructions also provide for regular and structured exchange of information between the local and central services of the Directorate-General for EPI, the police, security services and justice houses. Moreover, for all prisoners who have been in prison for more than 30 days, there is, in accordance with the collective letter No. 136 of 16 March 2016, an automatic notification is made via the Sidis Suite database to local authorities about detentions, release, placements under electronic supervision, non-return from leave, night-time permits, etc. The following information shall be provided: name, first name, national register number, date of exit from prison, municipality and address at which the prisoner declares his or her place of residence. The instructions set out in the collective letter No 128 of 19 May 2014 on the exchange of information relating to the tracking of persons in freedom under conditions and the detection of escaped persons are also carefully applied by the services of the Directorate-General for EPI. Since 2015, all categories of inmates included in the CelEx list, which is more extensive and different from the OCAD list. So the infoflux is already quite wide. The extension of logic to other prisoners not related to radicalism should, in my view, be approached with caution. Whether a list is effective is determined by its size and the seriousness of the information on which it is based. An excess of information and communication ultimately risks becoming counterproductive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The flow of information is indeed very important and it is necessary to do so. You refer here to SIDIS-Suite as a system. You were talking about I+Belgium earlier? What is the relationship between these systems? Shouldn't we end up getting lost in all these different systems? The more systems one has, the more places one has to enter data. I fear that there will be even more chance of oblivion and error unless these systems talk to each other. What is the relationship between these two systems? It may be a silly question, although my daddy always said there are no stupid questions. I'm trying to track how these systems relate to each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u59	I would like to reply briefly, Mrs De Wit. For each database we need to get the green light from the Privacy Commission, which means that access to those databases is explicitly based on the principle of the necessity basis or need basis. In other words, general access to Sidis Suite, which is almost one of the most annoying databases in existence for physical persons in it, is obviously not feasible today. You should know that Sidis Suite was made when I started as a minister, without the Privacy Committee or the legislator looking at it. So I've done my best to get that system under control as best I can. In addition, the I+ police database aims to specifically share all information for provisionally released persons as concretely as possible with the police. It is clear that this database will be linked to the general police database, the ANG. As you know, many databases are interconnected. You said they were talking to each other. I said earlier that everything in OCAD is also in CelEx. This is achieved by a weekly comparison of both databases by the computer. So they will be levelled. We are therefore doing our utmost to do this, Mrs De Wit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u60	I have no doubt that you are doing your best, Minister, but you understand that this is extremely intensive. I'm just thinking: when I see that something on Facebook has to be tagged only once and it's everywhere, while with us those databases have to be systematically compared every week. Chapeau for the people who do, and it is necessary, but I certainly hope that will then be CSI-wise.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u61	Mr. Secretary, these aren't fun days. We have read that this week the Ghent Court has had to acquit a number of drug criminals across the board. That verdict followed because the evidence, a DVD with the phone taps, was destroyed and a move in two was broken. As a result, the phone taps could no longer be re-heard, while the suspect contested the written version of the phone taps. Due to the lack of evidence, the court had to declare the criminal proceedings inadmissible. It doesn't stop there. A lot of stuff had been confiscated. That material had to be handed back. It's 80 000 euros, a Porsche and a Harley Davidson. In addition, drug criminals are often still subject to considerable forfeiture. There was a lot more that was lost, too. Fortunately, it does not happen every week, but it has already happened that the Justice Department makes the news in a painful way because of an release due to unreadable or destroyed evidence or the inability to use technology correctly in the courtroom. Mr. Secretary, I'm trying to understand this. I am also trying to answer the questions people are asking me about that. Could you give me more information on the cause of the destroyed evidence? I understand the acquittal as a result of that, but how did that happen? Is malicious intent suspected or is it really an accident? We're dealing with people at the Registry. This could happen to anyone. Why is essential evidence stored purely on a DVD in mid-2018, while there are many other possibilities for data storage such as the Cloud? Even the inmates can handle it. Then it's a pity that the Justice Department or a Registry can't handle it. There are many other data storage options. Essential evidence can best be backed up. Mr. Secretary, did that happen? Yes or no? If not, why not and can you ensure that this happens quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u62	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, first of all, the cause of breaking the DVD is obviously not intentional. It was probably a result of the removal from the Registry. The facts on which the acquittal is based date from the period 2009-2010. That investigation was a division of an investigation in Germany. The acquittal is primarily the result of lengthy criminal proceedings and the settlement of justice, as well as the participation rights of the parties during the investigation. The court found that the absence of a large proportion of the recorded telephone calls appears to be an effective obstacle to the right of defence, but that this should also be considered in the light of the delay in the reasonable period of time raised by the defence. With the law of 25 December 2016 on the special detection methods, in Article 90s of the Code of Criminal Procedure, I have provided for the possibility of keeping the files that must be kept at the Registry elsewhere, in particular with a service designated by the King, under the conditions and detailed rules that he lays down following the advice of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy. Before that amendment of 25 December 2016, it was prohibited to keep a copy. During the period of the acquittal, therefore, it was not allowed to keep a security backup. At present, the intended service of the federal police is not yet equipped with equipment that allows for the systematic provision of digital storage. The NTSU-CTIF is currently implementing the new interception centre. Once such work is completed, centralised security backups will be possible. According to the information I have at my disposal, it is planned for 2019. Finally, I would refer you to the proposals put forward by the Committee of Experts for the reform of criminal proceedings, precisely to improve criminal investigation and participation rights and to address these bottlenecks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that we want to remedy participation rights in a procedure, so I fully understand that. However, I find it very difficult to explain that only one data carrier should be kept available from such essential information. I don't think we can sell such a statement to the pavement. I'm glad to hear you're working on it and I'm writing 2019. I hope it will work, because the way things went down in that file, it's all not nice, fun and cozy anymore. Such matters can be avoided. If we can help to resolve that, we will be delighted to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u64	Mr Minister, at the hearings organised by the Justice Committee on the meaning of sentence, the director of the Andenne prison deplored the particularly long delay in obtaining, in the head of the prison directors, the security clearance necessary for the exchange of classified information in the context of the fight against radicalisation in prison. Minister, among all prison directors in the country, how many have now obtained their security clearance? What is the average length of time it is obtained? If the deadlines are long, what could be the solutions to reduce this delay?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u65	Mr President, because of the confidentiality of the information requested, the only thing I can tell you is that at the moment 58 people have security clearances in DG PPE. Questions relating to the procedure for obtaining authorization fall within the competence of the National Security Authority, which issues authorizations. I therefore invite you to ask your question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic930x.u66	Minister, thank you.
