ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u1	Mrs Capoen and Mrs Winckel are not present. Mrs Fonck is absent because of illness and her question No. 19680 is converted into a written question. Mr Calomne and Mr Hedebouw are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u2	Mr President, Minister, this question is already an old one. I dropped it off in July. Of course, its timeliness is not exactly the same. My starting question was how the government viewed the measurement of mystery calls. The measure was adopted in Parliament earlier this year. With regard to the situation of discrimination in employment in Belgium against women and foreigners, I have already been able to express my regret that this project has not been far enough. Nevertheless, the law has the merit of existence. This is a first step in the right direction. When you published the latest figures on discrimination in hiring for our country, you said you hoped that these mystery calls could be applied as early as February. Minister, my question is simple. The month of February ends. Can you tell us if the mystery calls are operational? What methodology was used? Have any initial results already been achieved? If they are still not operational, can you tell us when they will be operational? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u3	Mr. President, Minister, origin remains a determining factor in explaining inequalities in the labour market. On the basis of the latest figures available, the employment rate for the population of Belgian origin was 73%, while that of persons of other origins (excluding the European Union) did not exceed 46%. Even the level of qualification does little to alter this inequality. Indeed, with equal qualifications, the employment rate of persons of high Belgian origin is also much higher. The same applies in the public sector, particularly among statutory officials. In other words, there is still strong discrimination in hiring linked to the origin of job seekers. Minister, what is the average European employment rate of people of foreign origin? How is our country classified? UNIA recommended that legislation on means of control of the fight against discrimination be strengthened. So you insisted on setting up the mystery calls. For when do you plan their effective application? Do you have an agenda to share with us? How will their effectiveness be assessed? What objectives have you set in terms of combating discrimination? The problem is complex and requires diverse solutions. I am thinking of coordination with the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, and with the regional ministers of education. Does this trans-level and trans-departmental approach seem to you the most relevant and effective? Will an interdepartmental conference be organized? What are your deadlines in this regard? Do you think that there is a need for new legislative or control measures? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u4	Mr Minister, on 30 December 2017, the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Dialogue and Unia proposed their third socio-economic monitoring. The diagnosis leaves little to the imagination: in the European Union, the Belgian labour market is one of the most discriminatory. The employment rate of the population of Belgian origin is 73 per cent, while for people of non-EU origin it does not exceed 46 per cent. Mystery shopping and mysterycalls are therefore welcome tools to tackle and eradicate discrimination in the workplace. With the draft law laying down various provisions on work at the end of last year, you offer the social inspectors the possibility of using mystery shopping. Inspectors can now detect discrimination by pretending to be potential customers or employees. However, they must meet a number of cumulative conditions before they can proceed to mystery shopping. There must be objective indications based on data mining and data matching, there must be prior written agreement from the employment officer or prosecutor of the King and finally mystery shopping may only be applied if all other ways of detecting discrimination have been exhausted. Minister, will the cumulative conditions not prevent social inspection and discourage discrimination on the labour market on the ground? In the Brussels region, inspectors are already allowed to go into mystery shopping if they have indications of discrimination, whereas federal social inspectors are only allowed to do so if they have objective evidence of proof. Isn't it more logical to reverse those cases, so to use mystery shopping just to collect the burden of proof? Do you not think that social inspectors should be given more power to act more proactively, given the socio-economic monitoring figures? When do you plan an evaluation of the mystery shopping?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u5	I myself, Minister, have also put a question in this connection. It is absurd that I now have to read out the text of my question, but it seems that the text of my question is not included in the report if I do not read it out. I asked the President-in-Office for a different solution, but we still have to send out pigeons, so that is not possible. So I will now read my question like Mr. De Owl. In the introduction to my question, I am referring to the legislative process, but I will not repeat it. Minister, I would like to hear from you what the next steps are. Will the social inspectors be trained to perform the mystery calls? Is there a procedure in preparation to determine in which cases an employer will be subject to the mysterycalls, of course within the framework provided by the law? How will the results of data mining and data matching, as defined by law, be obtained and what data will be taken into consideration? What timing do you put first? From when will mystery calls be performed? Finally, what is the situation with regard to self-regulation in other sectors, in addition to service cheques and temporary agency work? You said that both could be models for other sectors. What have you done to ensure that the other sectors also apply self-regulation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps you should press the President again. I can make a number of other suggestions which may make the work, including in the Committee on Social Affairs, more efficient. Colleagues, the monitoring figures show that people of Belgian origin had an employment rate of 73% in 2014. The average employment rate of persons from non-EU countries was 44.5% in the same year. The gap thus stood at 28.5%. I will hand over the table of figures later, Mr President. However, in order to correctly interpret the figures for the other EU Member States, it is important to take into account that the variable origin, as used in the report socio-economic monitoring, has been developed by the FOD WASO and Unia, in collaboration with the KSZ and is unique to Belgium. We do not have a similar source for the other EU Member States as Eurostat figures are based solely on the country of birth. We cannot therefore make a homogeneous comparison of the figures from monitoring as long as other countries do not have such an instrument. We are therefore unique in this respect. Based on Eurostat's harmonised level of effectiveness, the gap is slightly smaller, i.e. 21.2 percentage points, but still significantly higher than the EU-28 average of 10.6 percentage points. Moreover, according to Eurostat figures, Belgium is even the last place. Finland, the Netherlands and Sweden follow with an efficacy gap between immigrants and non-EU immigrants of 20,9, 20,6 and 19,9 percentage points respectively. The smallest efficacy gap is found in Portugal, followed by Malta and Italy. The draft law laying down various provisions on work includes, as you know, a chapter 9 on the amendment of the Social Criminal Code, which includes the extension of control powers, mysterycalls and data mining. The law has now been passed in plenary session of the Chamber. These provisions will allow the social inspectors of my Department of Monitoring of Social Laws to carry out, under certain conditions and provided that a prior authorisation of the Labour Auditor is made to carry out so-called practical tests or mysterycalls and investigations to combat certain forms of discrimination, especially in the case of recruitment. You all know that. As of 1 April 2018, in accordance with the entry into force, actual mysterycalls may take place as provided for in the law laying down various provisions. I understand, Mr Hedebouw, that in Brussels, to which you refer, this possibility already exists from 1 January 2018, but if I have read the newspapers correctly, no case has so far been covered by the Brussels regulations. Meanwhile, there is also a project to further develop the technical side of data mining and data matching, a requirement to perform the mysterycalls. Unia, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men and the Department for the Supervision of Social Laws are currently working that out to be ready in time on 1 April 2018. I remember Mrs Kitir calling for this not to be a dead sparrow, but for it to enter into force effectively. As I said then, I will do everything I can to be ready from 1 April and to be able to use this instrument effectively. The implementation and details concerning the organisation of the mysterycalls will then be planned in consultation with my colleagues in the various competent services to get everything ready by 1 April. There is no set quantitative objective, since the law seeks to exclude any provocation of crimes that would make criminal proceedings admissible. In order not to lapse in fishing expedition, it is appropriate to resort to this method only if there are indications of discrimination borne by a private entrepreneur or employer. The inspector should also rely on data mining and data matching, as mentioned during the discussion of the draft law. This new technique is to be evaluated within the year with the relevant inspection services. It is my conviction and aim that such new detection methods will contribute to greater sensitisation and willingness of companies to develop a diversity policy in their recruitments as well. As discrimination is a multidimensional phenomenon, we call for an integrated approach. There is a need for constant consultation between the Ministers responsible for Employment, Education, Equal Opportunities and Migration. In addition, the integration of persons of foreign origin should also be a priority on the social dialogue agenda. Such consultation is necessary in order to ensure that no measures are taken within one domain that would unintentionally hinder efforts in other areas. A single legislative adjustment or a one-off conference will not be enough to make a substantial difference. I would also like to mention that consultations have taken place with the cabinet of Minister Gosuin of Brussels, with the regional inspection service of Brussels and with the federal social inspection. A further explanation of the Brussels decree and the federal law on mysterycalls was made there. Agreements were also made for further cooperation between the various inspection services in the future. As I have said, Mr President, I will provide the committee secretary with tables that will give even more information on the position of Belgium and the 27 other EU Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u7	Mr Minister, I thank you for your response and for your sincerity in confirming that in Belgium this discrimination is particularly marked and reflected in the figures, as you have pointed out. It is therefore important that the decisions be implemented quickly. You mentioned the date of 1 April, which implies an intensification of the various collaborations. There is also a need to monitor the effects of all these measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u8	Minister, after the first year of implementation of the system, we will check whether it is achieving its objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u9	Minister, we will be following this issue closely as of April 1. The question that will then be asked will be: does it take proof to do a mystery shopping or does it take mystery shopping to get evidence? The equation will have to be solved and addressed on the right side. The first results in the Brussels-Capital Region will allow us to see if the collaboration of the various services is effective and will demonstrate whether this discrimination actually exists. We are scientists; if we observe, through the final figures of integration, that there is discrimination, we must point out the causes of it. When it comes to hiring, I hope that these mystery shops will partially solve this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u10	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, on the occasion of a recent press release, you spoke in favour of legislation that would support workers' right to disconnect. In concrete terms, an obligation for employers to enter into agreements with staff regarding the use of professional e-mails outside working hours could be adopted. I quote: "It must be decided whether employees are obliged to respond to e-mails and text messages after working hours, as well as on weekends. It is even necessary to discuss the option of making it technically impossible to receive e-mails outside these hours." This project would aim to improve the quality of life of workers, strengthen well-being at work and drastically reduce stress, which can obviously have a negative impact on individuals. However, in the present context of a competitive economy and in the face of the constraints experienced by companies – particularly SMEs – and in the light of organisational methods such as teleworking, I would like to ask you about this measure, which raises several questions. Minister, what exactly are the outlines of the project you intend to table on the government table? Are all categories of employers concerned? What is the state of consultation with the social partners on this issue? In this case, what is the position of the representatives of SMEs, the self-employed and the liberal professions? Finally, do you already have in mind a precise timetable for the entry into force of this scheme?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u11	Mr Minister, burn-out is apparently becoming the disease of the 21st century. The increasing flexibility of the labour market and increasing workload in some companies and sectors lead to the loss of many workers for longer periods of time. It takes months to recover from a burnout. Long-term absence is therefore the result. It is essential to step up efforts to prevent psychosocial risks in companies and prevent burn-outs. Deconnection is therefore a good idea and it should be a right for workers, as is already the case in France and Germany. Firstly, through a draft law, you want to encourage the social partners to consult on possible agreements on deconnection in the Committee on Prevention and Protection at Work. Have the social partners consulted on this or given advice? Secondly, you want to make provision for workers in the CPBW to be able to make proposals and to give advice on deconnection. But what if the employer is in no way willing to take that into account? Thirdly, in France, the right to deconnection has been acquired for the workers. Wouldn't that be a better measure to guarantee deconnection for everyone?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u12	My proposal to make agreements on the deconnection and use of digital work resources outside working time is part of the bill on the Relance Act, which gives implementation to the Summer Agreement. The draft is currently the subject of a plenary debate and follows the procedure laid down. If I am not mistaken, the draft now goes to plenary for final approval, so that the date of entry into force is fixed. The aim of this initiative is to encourage all employers to consult at company level on disconnection and the use of digital means of work outside working hours. This consultation must take place in both large and small enterprises, but solutions can obviously differ depending on the enterprise. This is not necessarily a right to deconnection as in France, to which Mr Hedebouw referred, but rather a right to discuss this issue in the committee on prevention and protection at work. In smaller companies where there is no committee, such consultation must take place with the trade union delegation or even directly with the workers. So we didn't go as far as in France. We want to give every opportunity and talk about this as wise and mature people. It may be desirable to lay down certain agreements resulting from such consultation in a collective agreement or in an employment regulation. I am thinking of rules of conduct, such as not answering emails after 20 hours or during weekends and holidays, but also technical solutions tailored to the company and its employees. Then there is the problem of teleworking. Telework can certainly be seen as an opportunity in my opinion because it allows stressful work trips to be reduced and the work-life balance to be improved. That is why, as you know, in the law, I have created a framework for occasional telework which gives an employee the right to ask for telework, even if there is no regular telework in the company. At the same time, however, there are risks associated with telework, including seeing the worker permanently connected to the laptop or smartphone, which could gradually blur the boundaries between work and privacy. It is therefore all the more important that clear agreements be reached on the use of digital means of communication outside normal office hours. In the fight against excessive work stress and burn-out and in the context of the new forms of work organisation such as telework, it is part of a good staff policy to make clear agreements on the use of digital work resources outside office hours. The possibility of digital deconnection should be optimally adapted to workers' concerns regarding work-life balance and should provide as much clarity as possible for all stakeholders, both employers and employees. In conclusion, we believe that this really needs to be discussed. We want to give the social dialogue in the company every opportunity so that solutions can be found tailored to each company and sector. In this way, I believe that we are responding to the legitimate question of how to deal with the digital means of communication of our time because of the balance between work and private life.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answer. It seems to me useful and interesting to think constantly about measures to increase the well-being of workers and reduce their stress. You mentioned telework and the issue of the right to disconnect. You can see that one can be linked to the other. It is therefore important to keep in mind the balance between private and professional life. I also note that specific agreements would be found depending on the size of the company. Indeed, the same model cannot be imposed everywhere. What is feasible in large companies is not necessarily feasible in smaller firms with few staff to carry out their missions. We will be paying attention to the development of this issue. Thank you very much for the clarification you have given us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u14	Minister, I am only half satisfied with your answer. Recognition of the non-existence of the right to disconnect in Belgium is a positive element. However, it would have been welcome to have a method to guarantee equal rights for all workers, whether small or large enterprises. By referring everything to consultation in companies, we already know what will happen: in companies where the balance of forces exists, the right to disconnection will be obtained but in small and medium-sized enterprises, the worker will remain corveable at thank you by remaining connected because that is what his boss expects him to do, who is constantly connected. The only way to guarantee this equality of rights among all workers would be to establish a right to disconnect. Like what is being done in France, this must be enshrined in the law. I know the theory of steps is dear to you, minister. But by taking small steps, we end up backwards. Might as well take a big step forward, which I'd like to help you with. That's all of us! Generosity, democracy! Minister, we will be following this issue very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u15	Mr Massin is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u16	Mr President, Minister, a Voka press release of early February 2018 stated that there is too much absenteeism for which, among other things, the general practitioners would be responsible. They would be tempted, under pressure from the patients, to write sick notes when the patients in question are basically fit to work. The message came with a lot of reaction, including from the chairman of the Limburg General Medical Platform, Jos Vanhoof, who said that it is rather the other way around. People go back to work faster for fear of losing their job or income. Also in De Standaard a response from GP Karel Van Bever appeared that linked the absenteeism to the work pressure, longer work, burn-outs and physical overload. Minister, I quote him: "I have been a general practitioner for 14 years, have had tens of thousands of patient contacts, and I have not yet seen a patient who systematically asks for an illness note, whether unreasonable or unjustified. However, that image is often disseminated. On the other hand, I often get patients who are completely on the floor, mentally and/or physically, and in which the work situation is the cause: stress, tire speed, work insecurity, super flexibility, limited and chronometric toilet visits, targets that are unfeasible. You'd be surprised how many of those patients ask for a pill, a cortisone syringe or other things that should allow them to continue working, sometimes against better knowledge. In this context, he also talked about a story in which a patient was sent a letter containing the following contents. It's important, because it's a big company in our country. With great pleasure we inform by this way that during the year 2018 at the yard ArcelorMittal Gent we wish to reduce the absenteeism. That is why we are launching a test project for the whole year 2018, with which we hope to reduce absenteeism at ArcelorMittal Gent. This incentive is valid for all employees who are in permanent employment with Ariel throughout the year 2018. Staff who are seven days or less sick throughout the year 2018 receive an incentive of 75 euro net that will be paid out during February 2019. We hope for a positive evolution. Minister, that is a letter received by all Ariel's employees. In the light of this information, I have the following questions. Firstly, how many firm debt holders work with such incentives to combat absenteeism? Secondly, is there no discrimination on the basis of the health status of the individual worker? Thirdly, in the specific case, one fifth of Ariel's employees on the ArcelorMittal Gent site are long-term ill. Some work posts have been reduced from 16 hours to 2.5 hours over the years. How will the new burn-out prevention plan with possible burn-out coaches be able to address this? Fourthly, how do you assess this evolution in the light of the measures on workable work?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u17	Mr President, Mr Hedebouw, this question concerns the so-called incentives to combat absenteeism, which means that workers who are not or are not ill receive a reward in the form of a premium, a travel cheque or a wage increase. There is no obligation on companies to report their policies against absenteeism to the supervisory authorities. I cannot therefore answer, unfortunately, the question of how many companies are using such incentives. There are, of course, legislation and social agreements which can be a test for companies and workers' representatives for what is acceptable or not acceptable to reduce absenteeism. One must also bear in mind that incentives not to be absent from work do not lead to presentism. In addition, sick workers who come to work can also infect other workers and due to insufficient rest the condition can worsen and cause longer-term absenteeism. The question arises as to whether such incentives constitute a form of discrimination, which was also your question. The Law of 10 May 2007 on combating certain forms of discrimination states that it is prohibited to discriminate on account of current or future health conditions. In this case, a person who has been ill does not receive the same benefits as a colleague who has not been ill or less ill. According to the Law of 10 May 2007, there is a direct distinction where one person is treated less favourably than another is in a comparable situation or should be treated on the basis of one of the protected criteria. However, a difference in treatment is not necessarily discrimination. Direct discrimination exists where there is a direct distinction based on one of the protected criteria, unless such direct distinction is objectively justified by a legitimate objective, and the means of achieving that objective are appropriate and necessary. It is not for me to judge the existence of any discrimination in this case: only the courts and courts have the power to judge it, taking into account the justification put forward by the person who instituted the difference in treatment. The same can be said of the collective agreement No 95 of 10 October 2008, concluded in the National Labour Council on equal treatment at all stages of the employment relationship. For the purposes of this collective agreement, the principle of equal treatment in employment and occupation shall mean: "The absence of any form of discrimination based, inter alia, on the history of sickness." Nor can I judge a specific situation without sufficient knowledge of the facts. The large number of long-term sick people on the site of ArcelorMittal to which you refer is undoubtedly not entirely due to burn-out. That's what I'm assuming. Without drawing any conclusions on this particular case, the figures of the RIZIV indicate that in about a third of people absent for more than a year due to illness this is due to mental or mental problems. This is, of course, wider than just burn-out, but I would nevertheless like to work with the social partners to support companies that want to explore how to prevent burn-outs through pilot projects. The legal framework for this is in full development and I hope to be able to finalise it as soon as possible. The law on workable and manoeuvrable work, which saw the light of last year, should also allow the employee to have greater control over his work and to spread his efforts to better reconcile work and private life, which can also indirectly reduce absenteeism. Finally, I can inform you that my inspection services, i.e. the Monitoring of Social Laws and the Supervision of Welfare at Work, have studied the case and started an investigation. On the basis of the factual findings, they will act appropriately. I think that the latter can give you some satisfaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u18	Mr President, Minister, I certainly agree with the latter and look forward with interest to the results of the inspection. When we talk about discrimination, it is important that workers who are ill do not give up their own situation any more. In many companies today there is a lot of pressure to apply presentism and not absenteeism, so I hope that we will be able to combat it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u19	Mr President, Minister, my question is from the end of August, but I think that has not changed. According to a study carried out by the Randstad group, if the average annual salary of job students was 2,030 euros, there would be a difference in pay between young female jobists and young male jobists. For example, students earn an average of 1,904 euros, while students earn 2,166 euros! The Institute for Gender Equality has identified explanatory elements. As a result, more girls are employed in lower-paid sectors. Nevertheless, beyond that, he noted that pure discrimination was also taking place. It's horrible to think that already for working students, there is a gap between the average salary of men, 11.1 euros per hour, and women with 10 euros per hour. This observation is an alarm bell that must make us react. It is not acceptable that this discrimination in general exists, and already at that level. Minister, what process do you have, or are you going to put in place to eliminate this inequality? What steps will you take to achieve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gerkens, the principle of equal pay for equal work has long been part of Belgian and European legislation. This is one of the pillars of equal treatment between men and women. I also learned about Randstad's study. Although I have no reason to question the accuracy of their information, I would like to point out that, according to the report on the wage gap between the SPF Employment and the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, the wage gap for all under-25s, in general, i.e. not only for students, amounts to only 2% of the hourly wage. The overall wage gap is also very small in our country. For example, the OECD has recently published data according to which our country has the smallest wage gap between men and women among the 35 countries covered. As Randstad points out, the pay gap is mainly due to the sectors in which students work. Girls are over-represented in sectors and services that are less valued financially. In addition, boys and girls often do not perform the same functions in the same sector. Boys are more often recruited for technical and manual tasks, which are better paid. Another factor explaining the pay gap is that girls spend less time on paid work than boys. This segregation must be addressed in particular. It is for this reason that I join initiatives in the area of equal opportunities and education, among others. It is also clear that my services will also act when clear discrimination is established. In addition, attention should be paid to sectoral implementation in relation to gender neutrality of the Wage Gap Act. In order to ensure gender neutrality in the classifications of sectoral functions, the Act introduced a review of the classifications of sectoral functions, which is carried out by the Federal Public Service Employment, Labour and Social Concertation. The control focused on all CTCs registered as at 31 December 2017. Of the 45 gender-neutral classifications of functions, only 12 are now considered to be gender-neutral. In accordance with the Wage Gap Act, the Administration will ask the Joint Committees with a gender-neutral classification of functions to explain why their classification of functions is not gender-neutral. The Joint Committees shall have a period of three months from the date of notification of the request for an explanation. As Randstad already points out, unequal pay for the same work is very exceptional and so much the better!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u21	I see that, indeed, some of these functions have been monitored in the framework of certain Joint Committees. I will ask you later about the explanations that have been provided, but I really think that this baraemic difference between girls and boys is a real problem. It is true that they are said to be different functions and tasks, but here too, segregation is not always meaningful either. There is no reason why all that is technical and better paid is for boys and girls to have other jobs. I really find that when you hire students outside the workforce, there must be an obligation for the student job to be paid in the same way so as to stimulate girls and boys to hold the same jobs and ensure that they are paid in the same way. We have laws and we have to see that over the years, these wage gaps persist, even when we remove the difference in jobs and areas of work. An exacerbated voluntarism must therefore manifest itself for the control and the search for solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u22	Mr President, Minister, this is a follow-up question following my question of 29 May 2013. As you know, from 1 January 2014, the so-called unitary statute for workers and servants came into force. Since this law in fact contains a unified profile of the employees, there should therefore also be consequences for the social elections which still distinguish between the electoral colleges for workers, servants, young people and executives. In the previous social elections, you promised to take the necessary initiatives to adapt the social elections to the single legislation. You stated at that time that we had had the first stage of the single statute and that it was too early to reach a single electoral college. That was understandable at that time. However, you said that this would work by 2020. I would have liked to ask you a few questions about that. In the meantime, have initiatives been taken to resolve this problem against the next social elections? If so, can you explain more about these ongoing initiatives? If not, what is the right timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u23	Mr President, Mr Van der Donkt, every four years after the social elections, my administration evaluates the progress of this electoral procedure. Following this evaluation, a number of proposals are made to the social partners on simplifying and clarifying the procedure for the social elections. These proposals from my administration and the counter-proposals from the social partners will be discussed during several meetings of the Social Elections Advisory Committee for the preparation of the social elections in 2020. This includes employers' and employees' organizations. The Committee shall be chaired by the administration of the Employment, Labour and Social Affairs Office. One of the proposals that emerged from the evaluation concerns the harmonisation of the Staff Regulations within the framework of the social election procedure. My administration conducted a thorough study of the concept of employee category "the young workers, the workers, the servants and the executives" after the 2016 social elections. On the basis of figures, the evaluation outlined the scope of these categories of employees and their impact on the electoral procedure. My administration's proposals were then discussed by the social partners in the advisory committee. I can tell you that the discussion on this issue showed that there is no consensus yet to achieve harmonisation of the statutes with a view to the 2020 social elections. The reason, the ratio legis that there is no agreement yet, is the fact that the social partners concerned will not take a decision within the Group of Ten until the end of 2018 on the continuation of the unification of the statutes. They consider it appropriate to introduce harmonisation at interprofessional and sectoral level before applying it at company level. They therefore prefer a top-down approach. Over the coming months, I will also consult the social partners in the National Labour Council on the necessary legislative changes in view of the 2020 social elections. So, Mr Van der Donkt, we have already taken action. This is already being discussed by the social partners. We will ask for further advice from the National Labour Council. The aim is to introduce the necessary legislative changes before the 2020 elections. If I go through these legislative changes, we can discuss them at length, if my proposals do not please you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u24	Thank you for your comprehensive reply, Minister. I look forward to your further initiatives. You will not blame me for following this file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u25	I didn't expect anything else.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u26	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u27	Mr Minister, since the ban on the use of asbestos in 2001, we will see a very gradual reduction in the number of victims who have come into professional contact with asbestos, despite the long latency of, for example, mesothelioma, between 10 and 70 years. Kom Op Tegen Kanker and ABEVA therefore assume that we will gradually see a shift from occupational asbestos victims to environmental asbestos victims. Given that some 3.7 million tonnes of asbestos are still in circulation in Flanders and that only one third of schools have an asbestos inventory, it is unlikely that people will still fall prey to asbestososis or mesothelioma. At the moment many people still work in an environment where asbestos is present. Also, in the case of renovation, demolition or repair works, it is sometimes found that asbestos has been exposed. Firstly, what measures do you intend to take to protect workers in areas where they are indirectly exposed to asbestos? Secondly, can you regulate the succession of workers who were suddenly exposed to asbestos? Thirdly, is it not desirable for all municipalities to draw up an inventory of asbestos sites so that the inventory can be easily consulted and protected when working? Fourthly, is it not desirable for all municipalities to set up an asbestos counter to help citizens and businesses remove asbestos, as is the case in Breda, the Netherlands? Fifthly, can you provide a special telephone number, a central hotline where everyone can deal with problems and complaints about the careless removal of asbestos? From there, the relevant files could also be distributed to the competent departments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u28	Mr Hedebouw, the rules of the Royal Decree of 16 March 2006 on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos, which was recently incorporated into the Social Welfare Code at Work, book VI, Title 3, apply to workers who are regularly at risk of exposure to asbestos during their work, for example by carrying out asbestos removal works. The codex provides that those workers are subject to health surveillance. Firstly, they must undergo a health assessment prior to the first exposure to asbestos. Secondly, there will be an annual health assessment as long as there is occupational exposure. Thirdly, after occupational exposure, further health surveillance may be provided for, if the prevention consultant/work nurse deems it necessary. In addition, passive exposure to asbestos must also be avoided, for example, for workers employed in buildings incorporating materials containing asbestos, such as office buildings or school buildings. Therefore, the codex obliges employers to draw up an inventory of all the asbestos-containing material present in the premises at the workplace. If the inventory shows that asbestos is present, a management programme must be drawn up. This means regular monitoring of the status of the materials containing asbestos and possible preventive measures to avoid exposure to asbestos. If the material containing asbestos is found to be in poor condition, it must be fixed, sealed or removed by an approved asbestos remover. In addition, every worker has the right to spontaneously consult the prevention adviser or occupational physician in response to complaints which he considers to be related to the work. This is also possible for an employee who is concerned about possible passive exposure to asbestos at work. The codex Welfare at Work applies to employers and employees, including teachers and also in school buildings. In addition, other persons, such as students, will also be indirectly protected. But the codex does not apply directly to the students themselves. I refer you to the Communities. You are also asking for a methodology to be developed for the long-term follow-up of persons who may have been passively exposed to asbestos. That sensible question is best asked to Minister De Block. It is responsible not only for the Federal Agency for Occupational Risks, Fedris, and the Asbestos Fund, but also for public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u29	Mr President, Minister, with these questions I am addressing the problem of the ambulance workers, in particular a group of professionals employed in private ambulance services, who are faced with a number of problems with regard to their working conditions. They must, of course, also work nights and weekends, but apparently these periods are not properly reimbursed or properly set up in accordance with labour law rules. One of the ways of doing this, if I may put it that way, is that the paramedics get a 38-hour contract, while in reality they have to work two to three shifts of 24 hours, which means they perform more hours than those for which they are reimbursed, and lack premiums. If possible, much worse is the fact that non-profit organisations and bvbaten are also set up, which means that employees are partly registered as professionals, but on weekends for example as volunteers. Among the paramedics who refuse to cooperate in this construction, there are already examples of persons whose contract of employment was terminated. It is quite clear that volunteers and professional ambassadors are not allowed to work for the same employer. By setting up bvba's and non-profit organisations under different names, this is bypassed, which leads to things that are not correct under labour law. This problem has already been submitted to the inspection service and a commitment has been made to investigate it. When I raised my question, I heard from the sector that no investigation had yet been carried out, but I understand that inspections have already been carried out. Perhaps that part of my question has become obsolete and you have more news about the inspections. Minister, are you aware of this problem? Are you planning to take measures to deal with the exploitation of paramedics? If so, how and with what timing? Are you prepared to take legislative steps to this end, I would be happy to take the initiative so that the constructions that are now being set up are no longer possible in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you seem to know, I have contacted the General Supervisory Board of Social Laws to investigate this issue. That investigation is under way and there is cooperation with other competent inspection services. At present, communication is not possible because the investigation has not yet been completed. Moreover, I have to wait for the results of the study before I can take a legislative initiative to prevent this from happening in the future if it is not in accordance with social legislation. So the investigation is ongoing and, with me, you will have to exercise some patience. On the basis of the results of this, I will examine as soon as possible whether a legislative initiative should be taken to counter any possible malpractices.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u31	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u32	Excuse me, I thought you'd already replicated. Go ahead, Mrs. Dedry. This is the committee of freedom, the most important good in our lives. That's how we got rich.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u33	Minister, I understand that you are waiting with me for the investigation. I'm sure of the malpractices, because those people don't find out. I look forward to your legislative initiative to deal with these malpractices. You can count on the support of my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u34	Minister, I quote the coalition agreement: 'The number of joint committees will be reduced and the sectoral consultations in the joint committees will be modernised to take account, inter alia, of the single statute and the economic sectors in the 21st century. In this context, and on a proposal from the Government, the role of the funds for security of existence is reviewed from the point of view of increased transparency and on the collection of compulsory contributions. Minister, what progress has been made on implementing that part of the coalition agreement? Which initiatives are under way and which may need to be launched? Do you have a timing in mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u35	Mr van der Donkt, the reform of the landscape of the joint committees is included in the coalition agreement, but can only take place on the initiative and with the willingness of the sectoral social partners. I personally invited the Chairs of the Joint Committees in April 2016 to consider an optimisation exercise and possible mergers between existing joint bodies. At the same time, my administration has drawn up a practical guide to the harmonization of the joint committees in order to provide the social partners with a practical instrument which proposes solutions to various aspects of harmonisation, such as fields of competence, composition, the fate of the funds for security of living and the fate of collective agreements. The guide was handed over to the social partners at the end of June 2016. Subsequently, the administration has repeatedly met with the interprofessional employers' and employees' organisations, inter alia, to answer their questions concerning harmonisation. The amendment of Article 27 of the Law of 5 December 1968 is planned. In doing so, we want to remove the fears of the social partners regarding harmonisation and recasting by temporarily guaranteeing the continuity of wage and working conditions for employers and their employees in the transition to a new joint committee. This will run until 1 January 2023. You remember that whole discussion. My administration also provides assistance and guidance to all the Joint Committees and Joint Subcommittees that ask for it, answers their practical questions and reminds them of the problems to be examined. As far as the rest is concerned, the initiative should, of course, come as far as possible or even entirely from the social partners. Some sectors have already taken initiatives, either with a view to abolishing them, or with a view to modernising the area of competence, or with a view to harmonising them. These last initiatives on harmonisation are the least visible, as they call for an internal exercise of inventory, comparison and harmonisation of collective agreements in advance. For example, the Joint Committee 308 for mortgage loans, savings and capitalization companies was dissolved on 1 October 2017. Advanced discussions have been held on the lifting of the Joint Sub-Committee 120.02 for the flax sector, the Joint Committee 149 for sectors related to metal, machinery and electrical construction, and four sub-committees are in the process of opening up to the servants. The Joint Subcommittees 102.10 and 102.11 shall also examine their abolition. The timing therefore depends to a large extent on the willingness of the social partners and, inter alia, on the evolution of the work of the Joint Committee and the complexity of rewriting the area of competence. With regard to the second part of your question on the security of life funds, I can strongly recommend the practical guide to the harmonization of the joint committees, should you not have taken them up yet. In view of the revision of the role of the Funds for Security of Life, it is intended to draw up a synthesised report on the number of reports submitted by the Funds for Security of Life, the financial situation of those Funds and their monitoring by the end of 2018 with the implementation of my General Policy Paper 2016 and of the Administrative Agreement 2016-2018 of the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Dialogue. In short, we have prepared everything and offered all the instruments to enable the harmonisation of the joint committees and sub-committees. We have strongly urged all the social partners to do so. The first results are already there and there is a lot in the pipeline. I think that we should encourage the social partners as much as possible to continue to work and speed things up. We have also taken initiatives for the funds to ensure that you will be able to read a synthesised report by the end of this year. There will also be greater transparency in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. In any case, we will follow up the dossier more closely with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u37	Mr President, this is an issue that dates back to September but has not lost its relevance. Minister, I put it to you following the exhibition of almost half of the employees of Clarebout, which has a site in Nieuwkerke, West Flanders, and another one in Comines-Warneton, Hainaut. At the end of July, between 85 and 100 employees showed serious symptoms that were not explained by the employer. It was claimed that they had the flu to eventually suspect a form of legionellosis developed as a result of water infection, unless it is the toxic syndrome of organic dust transmitted by toxic particles in the air. What worries me is that half of the workers are victims of a disease that is clearly linked to something toxic in the environment. They're not going to work. Temporary workers are therefore called in to replace them under the same working conditions. The company says it disinfects but does not give any real information. Blood samples are taken, but no communication is made to the workers. It is a company characterized by regular accidents. There's been some deaths lately. A worker died in April 2016. The trial is ongoing. Another worker died in 2017, another was burned in the second degree in December. There were several serious fires in July 2014, September 2015, September 2016. In January-February 2018, there were two more fire starts. The protection of workers is not guaranteed and safety at work is not respected. To my knowledge, there is no control or requirement with respect to this undertaking. Is it in line with the requirements of legislation and regulations relating to the protection of workers that there has been no communication on the studies and tests carried out to the workers and neighbours of the company? There has been no follow-up on workers or any evaluation of this follow-up. This is also true for temporary workers who come to work under the same conditions. We experienced the fipronil crisis, a substance that was not to be present in certain breeding grounds and was there. Here we are facing an epidemic of toxic substances, and obviously the authorities are not concerned about the environment, the workers, or the health of the workers. I would like an explanation from you: at present, how can such situations still be encountered in companies which work in the food sector and which employ 200 workers, half of whom are sick?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u38	Gerkens, as soon as the situation was known, the Occupational Well-Being Branch worked intensively with public health services, both federal and regional, on this issue. The doctors at work also collaborated. Every effort has been made by the competent public services and occupational doctors to examine this case in depth and to contact as far as possible the family doctors and those of the hospitals concerned. The work well-being inspection went, of course, several times on site to investigate the causes of the disease, and to check whether the company had taken and carried out the necessary measures to limit its consequences. The various departments concerned and the occupational doctor exchanged all possible data, as well as the results of the investigations, while respecting medical confidentiality. Very quickly, it was found, first, that, as you say yourself, the onset of disease was caused either by a kind of mild outbreak of legionellosis, by a toxic syndrome of organic dust, or by a mixture of both, with symptoms that can be described as those of a mild flu. Second, it is not a contagious disease. Only persons who were in close contact with vapours or aerosols from washing water could be concerned, and thus, de facto, workers. Thus, there was never a risk to the neighbours or to the family members of the workers. Finally, the use of a suitable dust mask was an adequate means of personal protection to prevent new cases. Workers have been informed through the appropriate body, their prevention and protection committee at work, as defined by regulation in the Code of Welfare at Work. All this was clearly communicated to the press, among other things by my inspection of the monitoring of well-being at work when he was interrogated by the media on this subject, obviously respecting the rules of the Social Penal Code. All the workers quickly recovered. They are completely cured and will be regularly followed by the occupational doctor. In addition, the company, in consultation with its internal and external service for prevention and protection at work, has taken additional collective measures concerning the management of the water in its washing facilities, in order to minimise the recurrence of such a disease. This aspect will also be closely monitored by my inspection department.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u39	Minister, I ask only to believe you. But given the attitude of the management of this company, it is difficult to trust. If any information was given, we don't know. I've seen pictures showing how things are going in this company. I do not understand that an alert has not been issued and that requirements have not been made regarding occupational hygiene, the condition of the building, the soil in this company, given the danger it poses to workers. In my view, a communication to the local authorities would also have been necessary. Indeed, it is said that this is not contagious, it is important to make known the results of the studies, investigations that have been carried out, obviously with respect for medical confidentiality. There is no question of disclosing the contents of the files. But the situation in this undertaking is dramatic. You seem confident and you want to be reassuring. But, in my view, unannounced controls on this company must be organised and stricter measures must be taken against it. Indeed, if there has been an accident at work, if a fire has occurred, if legionellosis or another disease has appeared, there must be explanations. In addition, this company violates regional rules on car park extension, transport authorisation. She doesn't respect anything. I would therefore like to urge you to strengthen the controls and recommendations to the said company.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u40	Mr President, Minister, the coalition agreement provides for further harmonisation of the status of worker and servant in order to bring about the completion of the single statute. Let me quote once again: further harmonisation of the statutes to ensure worker and servant within a strict time frame and to draw up concrete proposals for this, taking into account the financial impact for all the actors involved. These include guaranteed wages, annual leave, temporary unemployment and collective labour law. I would like to have an answer to the following questions. Firstly, can you give an update on that part of the coalition agreement? Secondly, what implementation has already been given to the section? Thirdly, what timing do you have in mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u41	Mr President, Mr Van der Donkt, as my policy paper of 28 October 2016, which you still have a fresh memory of, I have committed myself to further work, in implementation of the government agreement, on progressively harmonising the differences in the status of workers and servants in terms of annual leave, guaranteed wages in the event of illness, temporary unemployment and collective labour law. For the annual holiday, this harmonisation will of course take place in cooperation with the Minister for Social Affairs. The matter falls within its competence. Since the measures provided for in the coalition agreement were waived in order to bring the guaranteed wages in the event of illness to two months for both workers and servants, an alternative should be developed on this point, unless you now have other information. The harmonization of temporary unemployment cannot be seen in isolation from the reform of the landscape of the joint committees. In particular, the system of economic unemployment is based mainly on sectoral schemes which are therefore tailored to the specific features of the sector. The harmonization of temporary unemployment therefore requires harmonised joint committees which we have just discussed. For collective labour law, in June 2016, I provided the social partners with a guide to the harmonisation of the Joint Committee drawn up by my administration. This guide provides concrete solutions to which we have also referred earlier. The interprofessional social partners also committed themselves in IPA 2017-2018 to consider by 31 December 2018 what measures can be taken in the context of the worker-servants file and to continue the debate on the reform of the parish landscape. The social partners must sometimes be encouraged with patience to make progress, whatever has happened here. I therefore hope that by the end of the year we will continue to deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u42	Minister, I will show that patience in this dossier and look forward to 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u43	Mr President, I would like to ask you a question. I have already received an answer, and Question No 21419. 22913 is a follow-up question. The coalition agreement, which apparently contains a lot of issues, provides for the introduction of a new career model. In reply to a question I asked on 24 October last, you said that before the start of the sectoral negotiations you had asked the social mediators to put the issue of payable allowances on the agenda in those sectors where the pay gap is greatest on the basis of seniority. You then waited for the outcome of the negotiations and would decide on that basis whether further initiatives are necessary. Minister, what is the outcome of the sectoral negotiations on the wage scale? Have you taken any initiatives in this respect? What if there's no unanimous advice? Will you then take action yourself? And then what's the timing? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u44	Minister, in May last year you stated that you wanted to pursue a wage evolution based on productivity rather than seniority. You did so following a warning to a well-known company for age discrimination. You also expressed the ambition of getting everyone to work, as did Chancellor Merkel in Germany. Colleague Van der Donkt has already referred to November 2017. That's when the negotiations started. Like him, I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u45	Mr Van Quickenborne, Mr Van der Donkt, it is true that there is a great deal in the October 2014 coalition agreement. Sometimes there are statements about things that are supposed to be in that coalition agreement but that are not in it. Some say there's even more in it than there is in it. They read more than they say, but that is of course because it is such a good coalition agreement. It is true that the government agreement states that we want to revise remuneration on the basis of seniority. In 2014, the High Council for Employment recommended the following on seniority remuneration. I quote: 'The linking of wage growth to seniority does affect the employment of older workers, but other factors seem to be more decisive in explaining the mass withdrawal from the labour market. The possibility of early retirement, inadequate continuing vocational training and low job mobility are more important than the pay slippage of fifty-five people. We also read that it is not appropriate for the government to intervene by means of regulations to reduce the weight of seniority in wage developments. "A uniform standard would, moreover, be unfounded given the wide variety of functions and individuality of the industries." So much for what the High Council for Employment said in 2014. With regard to the wage scale, before the start of the sectoral negotiations I asked the social mediators to put this item on the agenda................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I specifically asked for this, assuming that I can continue to address this point of the coalition agreement. Now, however, it turns out that this is the case. We are now about a year ahead and no sector has so far taken the specific initiative to give me an answer or to take action. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that both the employers' bank and the employees' bank regard the need to deal with this as less priority. That is a first observation. The second observation, of course, is that wage formation is a matter of prime importance for social dialogue. I am, of course, trying to inspire the social partners in the sectors as much as possible to take steps. The government agreement also states that we need to improve the activation rate of older workers. That is, of course, also a point that I have to carry out and which has been given due attention, with soft runways, training targets with an average of five days and so on. I have taken the following additional initiative. Ancientity is, of course, linked to productivity. We have asked the OECD to carry out a study specifically for Belgium on and to carry out a study on Belgium's productivity. The seniority will be included. The OECD is very enthusiastic about this because we are ideal with all our figures and data to investigate this problem. Here too, I continue to work with great patience on what was agreed. I am now trying to put the problem of seniority back on the table and to encourage and encourage the social partners to work on it, by means of a different approach, namely how we can increase productivity in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for your patience and perseverance. If you need support, you know which shoulder you can always lean on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u47	Mr President, Minister, I apologise for this somewhat dated question. It dates back to October 2017, but is still on the agenda. On 23 October, you were expected by your colleagues in the European Union as part of the agreement on the revision of the European Posting of Workers rules. You had to give your opinion on a compromise text prepared by the Estonian Presidency after a previous compromise text, under the Maltese Presidency, stumbled upon a number of amendments by France and Germany, which, moreover, included our country. At the time when this question was tabled, it was not clear what this new compromise proposal would mean. Of course, the news has overtaken this question and in the meantime it's clear to everyone what the story was like, but the questions are what they were. Firstly, can you explain to the last EPSCO Council and the agreement reached? It's obvious to everyone, so you can be very succinct. Secondly, what is your personal opinion on the agreement reached?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u48	Mr President, Minister, last year the trade unions took several actions to the European Parliament against social dumping. Their demands are and will continue to be strengthened legislation and inspection services, equal pay conditions and social protection and equal treatment for all European workers, regardless of where they are employed. Every European worker has the right to decent working conditions, a stable income and a decent life. Therefore, the revision of the Posting of Workers Directive on equal pay for equal work is necessary in order to prevent social dumping. In the meantime, a trialogue is continuing between the European institutions: the European Commission, the European Parliament and the European Council on the reform of the Posting of Workers Directive. In addition, a number of other important issues such as the coordination of social security systems within the Union are also on the pipeline. There are many contradictions and points of discussion, including between the eastern and western Member States, but also with the trade unions and between the institutions. Mr President, first of all, what is Belgium's position within the Council on the duration of secondment? Secondly, what is Belgium's position on the main contractor's liability when a subcontractor is subject to social dumping? Is this limited to one subcontractor or is there any progress in extending this liability to the whole chain? Thirdly, according to Belgium, when should the new Posting of Workers Directive enter into force? Fourthly, what is the position on the payment of social contributions in the country of destination? Don't you think this is a necessary measure? Fifth, what about the transport sector? Will it be covered by this directive? What does Belgium defend in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u49	Mr President, Mr Raskin, your question was dated, but it has become topical again. In the European Parliament, the trialogue on this dossier is in full swing. I am also trying to provide Mr Hedebouw with all the information he has requested. On 23 October an agreement was reached on the revision of Directive 96/71 on the posting of workers. This was done by a qualified majority of twenty-one Member States. Three Member States abstained: the UK, Ireland and Croatia. Four Member States voted against: Hungary, Poland, Latvia and Lithuania. First of all, this is a great success in the fight for fair competition and against social dumping, as the principle of equal pay for equal work is now enshrined in the directive from day one. It is also a success for Commissioner Marianne Thyssen who has worked on this in recent years, including in close cooperation with our country. This agreement is now the Council's position which is currently being negotiated with the European Parliament in the so-called trialogue which is now in full swing. What should we withhold from the agreement in the Council? These are four elements: the principle of equal pay for equal work, the maximum duration of a short posting, the transitional period and the treatment of transport. Equal pay for equal work is the first element. The Member States reached agreement on the extension of the so-called hard core of working conditions. So far, only the minimum wage applies to postings in a given reading of the existing Directive. This is now being replaced by a broader concept of pay that takes into account collective agreements, bonuses and other fees. A wider range of other working conditions should also be applied from the outset. Secondly, the maximum duration of a short posting. The agreement provides that a posting of more than 12 months must at least respect the conditions of employment of the host country. That period may be extended by 6 months, if necessary, on the basis of a reasoned notification of the undertaking concerned. For example, in the case of long-term postings, a guaranteed wage in the event of illness is added compared to that first renewable period. Since our country had argued for 12 months, that is an acceptable compromise for us, but it is still under discussion in the European Parliament. With regard to Mr Hedebouw's question about subcontractors, our country can agree with the possibility for Member States, when it is mandatory for subcontractors to apply the main contractor's terms of employment, to make this mandatory for subcontractors working with posted workers. This proposal did not reach the final stage, but if our country had ever made use of this option, it should also impose it on subcontractors who do not work with seconded personnel. So there were two sides to this part anyway. Thirdly, the transitional period. Following the publication of the new Directive, Member States will have three years to transpose the Directive into their own law. A year later, the new rules will then become applicable. Of course, our country was in favour of entry into force as soon as possible, but some Member States needed a sufficiently long transitional period to allow their businesses to adapt. The new rules will only apply to the transport sector once agreement is reached on the specific conditions of application for the sector. This means that in the meantime the existing rules which our country interprets very widely can continue to be applied. During these negotiations in the Land Transport Council, the Bulgarian Presidency presented a new proposal which is not acceptable to our country in this form. It would open the door in many cases not to apply Belgian labour law, both in international transport and cabotage. The so-called lex specialise for transport is therefore certainly not yet completed. In our contacts with other Member States, it has become clear that many other Member States do not agree with the far-reaching relaxation proposed by the Bulgarian Presidency. We must look not only at this directive but also at the amendment of Regulation 883 which was decided at the same Council meeting on 23 October. This adaptation implies, inter alia, that a worker must have been subject to the social security of the home country three months prior to posting. Both the directive and the regulation contain many provisions aimed at improving cooperation between inspection services. Finally, the lunch debate at that meeting also showed openness to deepen this cooperation in the future with regard to the two-year period in which social security in the home country remains a component which is followed by my colleague in Social Affairs. This can therefore also be discussed further. Some people also want social contributions to be paid in the country where they work. However, that is what is called une fausse bonne idée. This would mean that a Belgian worker would even have to join the social security of another country for a very short period of employment abroad, with all the relevant records. In addition, employees working in a number of countries during their careers would have to put together a piece of pension anywhere after that career. The existing rule that for two years one remains subject to the social security of the home country is therefore a nuanced story. Moreover, the demand for this to be changed in the long term, let alone reduced to zero, was not before. Colleagues, I come to my conclusion. It is our assessment that a new general directive on posting is a major step in the fight against social dumping and fair competition. I realize that some people are critical. I take it seriously, too. No one says that the work is done, but a compromise will always be needed. We cannot expect our own companies to be able to work without restrictions in other Member States, while companies from other countries in our country cannot work. That is not possible and not desirable. Free movement of services and workers brings greater prosperity throughout the European Union. However, it must follow fair and transparent rules. We've come a long way in that. This case is being prosecuted. After the tripartite talks we will see the end result.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u50	Thank you for your reply, Minister. Your colleague, Mrs Thyssen, has made a great deal of progress. That's right. It is quite a challenge to turn the European tanker around a bit. In that sense, I'm sure I'll follow you. The principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place from day one is indeed an absolutely justifiable principle. It has always had our support, including in the debates that preceded the agreement in the Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u51	Like the principle of the free movement of services and workers within the EU, you yourself referred to it as one of the basic principles of the European Union. It must be absolutely preserved. We are therefore absolutely pro-recruitment. In open economies, this has yielded a lot. We just have to do everything we can to get the abuses out. We must therefore have the courage to look at the social security provisions in a number of risk sectors in due course. Serving off that question in 2018, because it would be too difficult, too complex or unsolvable, is a little too easy. Things are changing one step at a time. What's in store today is a step forward. We go from 24 months possibly to 12 months, although renewable, which results in 18 months, but it is a step in the right direction. To be continued, no doubt.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u52	Minister, I'm a little less enthusiastic. I think the main problem is the social contributions. You answer that there will not be much change in claim 883, but there is just the problem. On the ground we see how many jobs are lost by posting. Working people from abroad are much cheaper because social contributions are paid in the country of origin, not the social contributions of our country. On our technical argument, you say that there is not much you can do about it, but that is the main problem. The average duration of posting in Belgium is currently 4 months. Then we need a lot of legislation on a 12 month posting, although of course we would prefer 12 of them to be extended to 18 than 24. He is particularly concerned about the cost of work, about competition, for example in the construction sector. I therefore believe that we must continue the fight for genuine equal pay for equal work, which means that the same social contributions are paid. That seems very important to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u53	Mr Minister, this too is a follow-up question. On 24 October 2017, you gave a state of play in the committee on the plus-minus conto and temporary agency work for an indefinite period. Can you give an update on the plus-minus conto and temporary agency work for an indefinite period of time? In the absence of an agreement in the joint committee on temporary agency work, you yourself have already taken a legislative initiative to amend the law of 24 July 1987 on temporary work, temporary agency work and the making available of workers to users, so that the government itself can introduce temporary agency work for an indefinite period. Is that right? What is the state of play?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u54	Mr Van der Donkt, as always, you are very active. As far as the plus-minus conto is concerned, so far only the metal sector, Joint Committee 111, has taken the decision to extend the existing sectoral scheme. In the meantime, I have issued the ministerial decree required by the legislation which recognises the reasons for applying the plus-minus conto-system in the sense requested by the Joint Committee 111. The Ministerial Decree dates from 29 January 2018 and was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 7 February 2018. As regards the temporary agency work contract for an indefinite period, a meeting was held on 17 October 2017 in the Joint Committee 322 for temporary agency work. Unfortunately, that did not reach an agreement. The lack of consensus in the social dialogue does not rule out the possibility of doing so later, as I said earlier. A social mediator can play a role in this and develop further initiatives. So I would like to give the social dialogue on the ground another chance and have not yet planned a legislative initiative to amend the legislation. If there's no more patience, we might have to take an initiative. I'm trying to give the social dialogue another chance, but we're running out of patience.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u55	Thanks for the answer. I will continue to follow that dossier closely, along with you. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u56	Mr Minister, the law of 5 March 2017 on workable and manoeuvrable work legalizes the system of sliding working hours through the introduction of an Article 20b in the Labour Act of 16 March 1971. The worker himself chooses the beginning and end of his working day and his rest periods in accordance with the fixed and sliding working hours laid down in the working regulations or collective agreement. The scheme of sliding working hours may be introduced by a collective agreement concluded in accordance with the law of 5 December 1968 on collective agreements and joint committees or by an amendment of the employment rules. Sliding hours allow the employee, for example, to come to the office a little later in the morning and first take the children to school. Ideal to better combine work and private life. However, the implementation in practice of mandatory daily time recording would often be a stumbling block that ultimately prevents interested companies, especially SMEs, from introducing sliding working hours. For example, the introduction of a time record with a system of time tracking, the data of which should be kept for five years, would be perceived as a package of additional records. Furthermore, the system would no longer allow different timetables in mutual confidence. It is also argued that day-to-day time recording conflicts with the fact that certain employees no longer have fixed working hours and that the completion of a contract is more important than the daily number of hours worked. The law on workable and manoeuvrable work also provides for a transitional provision for the systems of sliding timetables applied in practice in companies before the law. By 30 June 2017, companies wishing to maintain their existing systems of gliding timetables by way of derogation from the new rules had to formalise their existing arrangements in a collective agreement or in the employment rules laid down at the Registry. Only the systems of sliding timetables which in the past met the conditions of the policy of tolerance of the competent inspectorate of the Social Laws can benefit from this transitional measure. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to make an introduction to what I have just said. Now follow my questions. Firstly, can you give an update on the implementation of the sliding working hours? What is the impact of the new legislation? Do more companies, including SMEs, make use of the sliding working hours system, since the legal gap was filled? How many companies already apply the system? How many company-cao-credits have already been closed? Secondly, Minister, do you have any knowledge of the above-mentioned stumbling blocks in order to implement the system of sliding working hours in practice? If so, what are your solutions or suggested solutions in this respect? Finally, as regards the maintenance of the existing systems of sliding timetables and their formalisation by 30 June 2017, how many such collective agreements were finally submitted? Were checks carried out by the competent inspection services on any formalised employment regulations in this sense, or is this purely in response to a complaint? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Van der Donkt, the law of 5 March 2017 on workable and manoeuvrable work has indeed introduced a legal framework for the application of sliding timetables in the private sector. Prior to that law, there was no legal basis for this and its actual application was contrary to certain rules of law. There was only a policy of tolerance for the competent supervisory authority of the Social Laws, provided that a number of principles were respected. No figures are available for the number of companies using sliding timetables in the past. This is also not systematically maintained in the application of the new legal framework. Moreover, companies can introduce a system of sliding timetables in different ways, i.e. on the basis of sectoral collective agreements or collective agreements, but also by amending the employment rules. In reply to your second question, I must point out that the application of the system of sliding timetables is by definition a measurement of working time. Without this measurement one cannot know how long an employee has worked, which is necessary to apply the system itself of sliding timetables. In this system, the employee can largely determine the start and end of his/her work and his/her breaks. In addition, the system of sliding timetables applies to workers covered by the working time regulation. A measurement of working time is therefore necessary in order not to exceed the maximum working time limits. The application of working time limits is also required by the European Working Time Directive, in order to safeguard the safety and health of workers. Only a limited category of workers is excluded from the Belgian and European working time regulations, in particular management. These workers are also excluded from the scope of the legal framework on sliding timetables. There is, of course, nothing to prevent an employer from opting for the introduction of a system of gliding timetables with a limited stem-time............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In principle, the legislation leaves free choice in the size of stem and glide times. In order to answer your third question, we need to look at the content of collective agreements. In the period from 1 January to 30 June 2017, my administration received some 50 collective agreements on the theme "introducing flexible timetables." Part of these collective agreements concerned the consolidation and maintenance of the existing system of sliding timetables and their formalisation by 30 June 2017 under the Workable and manoeuvrable Work Act. Since collective agreements do not always explicitly refer to the rules in which the agreement was concluded, it cannot be ascertained with certainty whether the texts actually implement the provisions of the law on workable and manoeuvrable work. According to the Registry, taking into account only the collective agreements concluded since March 2017, there are 17 of these definitions. Finally, the Monitoring of Social Laws does not have any figures on checks that would have been carried out on this. We only have figures relating to working time, without any further distinction. The checks are not only carried out in response to a complaint.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u59	Minister, I would like us to address the 3M issue, the situation of which has changed a little. The 3M group, which recently announced a record in its Dow Jones rating, had announced its intention in June to close the Nivelles site, which employs 107 people, despite the Group's huge global profits. According to the unions, although management has officially announced its intention to discuss with potential buyers, confidentiality clauses make this procedure very complicated. A trade union statement explains: "While the group motivated its intention to close the company with so-called bad figures, the Benelux 3M management welcomed, by internal communication to all the workers, the superb performances achieved." The union press release also explains that while staff feel that they are not respected by conditions of departure lower than those granted in their sector in the event of closure, they receive, by press release, the announcement that 3M has moved from position 31 to position 19 in the world ranking of companies that have the best reputation in terms of social responsibility! It's like a hick! The press release continues by saying: "While we all remember the promises and commitments made by the political world with regard to the improvement of the Renault law at the time of the announcement of the closure of Caterpillar, the staff notes that to date, 3M systematically rejects the request of the works council to have the assistance of an independent office of expertise to make the operational figures received reliable and to form an industrial and financial plan for the total or partial maintenance of the activity. As a result, the staff representatives (workers and employees) are asking the ministry to find a way out of this impasse in the interests of the 107 workers who will lose their jobs." Subsequently, a conciliation meeting was requested and was scheduled for 23 November. Since then, a lot of water has sunk under the bridges. Candidates reportedly ran but won. The 3M bosses ask to "shorten" the Renault law, as strange as it may seem. Minister, what steps do you intend to take to facilitate the resumption by another respondent? Do you have contact with the regional authorities on this very important issue of employment in the region?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u60	Mr Hedebouw, following the closing announcement of June 17, 2017, the Nivelles headquarters of the 3M brand went through three days of strike in early November. Then the work resumed, but with a blockage in the deliveries. The conciliation session at the request of the trade unions, chaired by a social conciliator, was held on Thursday, 23 November, and resulted in an 8-point agreement. A management briefing with SOGEPA and the cabinet of the Walloon Minister of Economy was held on Friday, 24 November. Now, according to the most current information, a conciliation request was submitted last Wednesday by the local CNE. There would be two companies interested in the company, totally unknown in the industrial environment concerned, with which they arrived at the end of the first phase of the Renault law. The local CNE learned this from management in the works council on Tuesday, February 20, 2018, hence its request for conciliation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answer. The request not to extend the information phase seems to me a little unfortunate on the part of management on the spot. In fact, there are two candidates for the takeover, it is not yet known whether they are reliable but the management still gives the impression of lack of will to find an alternative to the closure of the site.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u62	Minister, these questions have been old for some time, but I come back regularly to the subject of the port of the most beautiful city in the country, which is close to my heart. More specifically, it's about the Major Act. As a result of the reform imposed by Europe, you have worked out a KB compromise. First of all, what's the roadmap? What's the time frame? How will this work in practice? The second question relates specifically to the matters not covered by the European procedure, namely the agreements on the logistics sector, which you have always said should be stopped first, after which you could make agreements with the logistics sector. How far along are you in that process? What steps have you taken? What has been achieved in the meantime? Do you have any idea of a definitive solution? That is what people are waiting for in Antwerp. My third question is much more recent. It has come to my attention that some companies have brought a lawsuit before the Council of State with an application for annulment of the Royal Decree. In the meantime, the hearing officer would have delivered his opinion. What is the content of the opinion issued by the Hearing Officer? What are the consequences if the Council of State follows the advice? What actions will you take in response to the opinion? I am also interested in the effects of the Royal Decree of 10 July 2016 amending the Royal Decree of 5 July 2004. In the meantime, how many port workers have been recruited directly by the employer outside the pool since the introduction of the Royal Decree? How many port workers have been employed by temporary agency contracts since the introduction of the Royal Decree? How many shift compositions have already been changed as a result of the KB? In the meantime, how many training providers have been recognised to provide training for port workers? How many training courses have they already given effectively? Were training providers refused due to the intertwined quality criteria? Who can carry out the medical examinations and the psychotechnical examinations? What is the specific use of the additional solidarity contribution levied? Has it led to an increase in costs? What is the state of play on multitasking? How many tasks or shifts where multitasking occurred have already been performed? How many logistics workers with a safety certificate have been accepted outside Joint Committee 301? When do you plan an overall evaluation of the RB and when do you expect the results of that evaluation? It's a whole laundry list, but it's a complex file with many sides.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u63	Mr Klaps, sometimes I feel that you are asking questions to which you already know the answer, but that is a completely emotional feeling, assuming that it is not reality. I will, of course, try to answer all your questions. The last set of your questions is the most specific and up-to-date, as you have indicated yourself. Your first three questions relate to an ongoing case file. The content of pending court files shall not be communicated. Your other questions concern the practice following the introduction of the Royal Decree of 10 July 2016 amending the Royal Decree of 5 July 2004. Of course, I can give you information about that. First, you asked how many port workers were recruited directly by the employer outside the pool since the introduction of the Royal Decree. I can tell you first of all that only 17 applications have been submitted. In 2017, four port workers were recognised outside the pool. Five applications were definitively rejected because the conditions for approval were not met. The remaining applications, most of which date from the end of last year, are ongoing. Two candidates are in the final stage and those candidates are enrolled for the training. Since the introduction of the KB, no port workers have been employed under a temporary employment contract. As regards the number of shift compositions modified as a result of the KB, the agreement with the European Commission was two-fold. On the one hand, it was agreed that in general the existing shift systems should be reviewed periodically. The first general evaluation has been completed and a collective agreement has been drawn up which will change shift systems. Some shift systems were removed or reduced. Additional exceptions were also added. In addition, flexible deployment of port workers in the shift will become possible and a new structure has been created. On the other hand, it was agreed that the procedure for individual derogations on shift systems should be speeded up. One individual file was also completed positively. There are seven applications pending from two different companies. In all the files, the Security Service is still awaiting a place visit to complete the risk analysis. They are often in contact with the firm to see how far one stands. Your other questions concerned the training. This aspect falls within the competence of the regional ministers, who are also very intensively involved in this. Who can perform the medical and psychotechnical examinations? In accordance with the provisions of the Royal Decree, medical tests are carried out by the external office for prevention and protection at work, with the association of the employers' organization, which was appointed as agent in accordance with Article 3a of the Law of 8 June 1972 on port work. Psychotechnical tests shall be carried out by the body designated for this purpose by the recognised employers' organisation, which has been appointed as agent in accordance with that Article. Your sixth question was about the destination of the additional solidarity contribution. Has it led to an increase in costs? The solidarity contribution shall be used for the provision of services accessible to all recognised port workers, both inside and outside the pool. It concerns certain formal costs, direct medical assistance, the use of the schaftlocale and the provision to employers of a pool of trained port workers. Since this service is real and already exists, there is no increase in costs for the companies using the pool, even though the existing financial flows were shifted. In concrete terms, an employer who recruits a port worker outside the pool will be charged only the solidarity contribution and the costs directly applicable to that particular worker, as opposed to an employer who works with loose port workers from the pool. They will be charged the solidarity contribution and other additional contributions. For example, there is the basic contribution for the Compensation Fund for Existence Security. These additional contributions are, after all, used to cover the costs of loose port labour from the pool in a mutualised manner. It is clear that these contributions are not charged for authorised port workers outside the pool. What is the status of multitasking? How many shifts where multitasking occurs have already been performed? A protocol was adopted by the social partners of the port of Antwerp on 22 June 2016, in accordance with the agreements with the European Commission. Only by 1 July 2020 will the first steps be taken. How many logistics workers with a safety certificate are included outside the Joint Committee 301? I suspect your question refers to the logistics port workers with a security certificate inside and not outside that Joint Committee 301, but I may be mistaken. Previously recognised logistics port workers received a security certificate. Newly recruited logistics workers need no further recognition. They shall receive a safety certificate when they are recruited. On 1 July 2016, the Joint Committee 1 975 logistical port workers worked with a security certificate. On 1 January 2018 there were 2 070. The ratio between the number of logistics port workers and the total number of employees in the Joint Committee has remained stable since the reform. There was therefore no shift towards more ordinary port workers to circumvent the abolition of recognition for logistics port workers. You asked me when I expected a general evaluation of the Royal Decree and its results. Together with the social partners, we will monitor the further implementation of the solution to the default. That is also what the European Commission and yourself, Mr Klaps, are doing. So there are a lot of followers. To this end, we shall carry out regular monitoring, the results of which shall be communicated to Europe. So that evaluation is permanent. Mr Klaps, your questions are always answered very neatly, I hope today too. The port workers are regularly endorsed and this often gives rise to discussions. The latest achievement was the permanent screening of port workers in the framework of the Stroomplan. That caused a lot of commotion. We have had to take the necessary initiatives behind the scenes to restore peace. Behind the scenes I am working on initiatives so that the problem of logistics in the port would be solved in the social dialogue. As long as no agreements or pre-agreements have been reached, I am talking about this with a great deal of hesitation, let alone that I actively communicate about it. I understand that many Members of this House are asking for the coalition agreement to be fully implemented, or certainly the elements which have been called for several times. I'm doing the best I can to make things work. We still have 1 year and 2 months, because in May 2019 there will be elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u64	Thank you for your detailed reply, Minister. Let it be clear that with all my group and my party, I want to do everything I can to keep as many quality jobs as possible in the port of Antwerp and even to get them. That is our first concern. If we ask and continue to ask questions about this, it is for that purpose, even when it comes to screening, among other things. The port workers in Antwerp have a wonderful reputation. We'd like to keep it that way. For this you can find a partner in us. We shall then discuss the details. I have some concerns about the file. I understand that not everything can always go as quickly as possible. However, I am concerned about the concrete steps that have been taken since the introduction of the Royal Decree. In practice, the results show a little weak today. I leave the possibility that they will improve. In any case, Europe is following the issue. We have been able to convince Europe with the RB, for which I congratulate you once again, but it is to be hoped that it will also bring about sufficient change in practice. If not, Europe could decide that you have not done enough and that what has been promised has not been achieved, which would allow the whole game to start again. I would like to avoid that. Finally, I understand that you do not comment on the current case and any consequences, but the opinion of a hearing officer is a fact. I've heard rumors about that. You don't want to go into it. I note that, but I will keep coming back to that, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u65	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, in October 2017, the ONEM issued a new interpretative note concerning the status of artist on which you have already been questioned. This note again misinterprets, in an abusive and restrictive manner, the will of the legislator with regard to the stamp rule. However, the case law denies this interpretation, particularly in two recent decisions of the Brussels Labour Court. One concerns the interpretation of the stamp rule. No reference to a collective agreement within the contract can overturn this legal requirement which is to be assessed at present. The other decision validates the extension of this rule to technicians in the arts sector. Minister, in your response at the end of 2017, you made a commitment to set up a working group within the Management Committee of the ONEM to clarify and reframe its attitude. What about it? Have any conclusions been made? Has the case law cited been incorporated into these conclusions, if any? The establishment of the Artists Commission was an important step in clarifying their status and situation. Are there any consultations between this Commission where artists are a minimum represented and the ONEM? Indeed, no artist's representative sits on the management committee of the ONEM. Is this not also a well-known lack to be filled? Would it not be time for the ONEM to open up to the Commission's opinions? Or do we always have to let the courts put order in what must be considered illegal initiatives of the ONEM, each time at the expense of the artists? On the other hand, what about the fate of artists who have been improperly excluded from the statute because of the interpretative note invalidated by recent jurisprudence (cf. the two decisions of the Labour Court? Should they resort to the courts or will they be able to rely on your action to ensure that these exclusions are simply cancelled, until the ONEM, having regained its legal spirit, can reassess their situation? I would remind you that the ONEM is not on its first initiative. In 2011, for example, he had tried to undermine the social rules concerning the artistic sector, which had led to a strong mobilization of an impressive number of artists' representatives. Each time, his attempts were invalidated by the courts. In this case, there is no doubt in the case-law as to the outcome of a possible further attempt by the ONEM. Is the regular publication of new interpretations by the ONEM not ultimately an admission of incompetence in assessing what is really pay-for-work within the artistic sector? It's obviously a specificity. Should we not consider putting this evaluation in the hands of people who are more aware of artistic realities? In any case, would it not be time, Minister, to put safeguards in the management of the ONEM and to erase the potential loopholes of the law to put an end to this ping-pong game that may have fun with an administration but which is very tiring in the artistic sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u66	Mr. Chair, Minister, we have had the opportunity on several occasions to discuss the Kafkaian situation of artists, who need compensation at work – which is being misinterpreted by ONEM. I know you demanded and then set up a working group. In addition, Joint Committees 227, 303.1, 304, 329 meet regularly in this regard. I am confident that they will submit a proposal to you within two days at the latest, since you have set the deadline at the end of this month. I don't know if you've ever heard of it. In any case, between the end of December and today, I organised several meetings to better reflect the reality. This has revealed the need to take into account the intermittent activity and income of artists, technicians and, more generally, all those working in the art and culture sector. It was their problems that compensation for the task was supposed to provide a solution. Minister, you indicated that you would ask the ONEM to put an end to its abusive interpretation. I am reminded that since your meeting on 19 January with representatives of this body, files that had previously been refused have now been admitted. On the other hand, I don't know what he's going back to with regard to the reparations of those who were treated before January 19. So, do you intend to make arrangements for these artists to be compensated? Indeed, in no judgment, the ONEM won. Four pieces of information have come to my attention about the abusive interpretation of pay in the job and the integration of artistic technicians among the beneficiaries of this measure. Rather than wasting ONEM's money and energy in the labour court, where it would in any case lose for misinterpretation, it would be good to apply a retroactive effect to the correction concerning these artists. I would like to make one last point: we are in a cruel shortage of figures. I don't know if you intend to ask for studies and statistics. In any case, it is dreadful not to know the number of artists involved. The figures at my disposal mention the fact that only the artists of the audiovisual show bring an added value to the State of almost 16 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u67	Billion?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u68	This represents between 3% and 4% of GDP.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u69	It's possible!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u70	I'm talking about the whole culture, the visual culture, the show, but not the plastic arts. I can give you these figures from some organizations. I'm not the one who went to count! That's the proof that we're running out of data. I have the figure of 80 million costs for the ONEM in 2016. The number of artists ranged from 4,000 to 6,000. It is aberrant to have no more information. We have introduced a tax shelter for the performing and performing arts. This creates jobs. When jobs are created in the arts sector, jobs are created for intermittents and therefore, the ONEM expenses also increase for these artists who are lucky enough to reach the number of days that entitles them to the fee. It is important to have some data to try to assess who, how much, and what this represents. Is it included in your good early 2018 resolutions to carry out significant studies and surveys? Would that be part of your plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u71	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u72	Mr.President, Minister, it has been several months since artists whose status is already very (too) precarious mobilized against the new policy of the ONEM against artists announced in October 2017. Indeed, at that time, the ONEM decided, on the basis of an interpretative note, to refuse many applications for access to unemployment benefits or access to the status of artist containing contracts to the task. However, these contracts allow a gross amount of income to be converted into working days, the only way for artists who work very often by project and according to the seasons to have access to social status and social security. The 2013 decree had already hardened the path to unemployment for artists. Today, those who do not yet have access to the status of artist find themselves in a very precarious situation. As summarized by a collective of artists and students calling for mobilisation, "ONEM's interpretative note seriously endangers the living conditions of the performers and, more particularly, the emergence of the young creation already too precarious by making it even more impossible to access unemployment benefits for artists". In the meantime, you have already set up a working group with actors in the field to deliver an opinion on the basis of which consultation between the social partners can begin. Minister, I have a few questions about this. In the coalition agreement, a reform of the artist's statute was on the agenda. How do you see this? Are you planning on getting this done within this legislature? Secondly, what is your position on the artist's statute itself and what is your intention? Will you follow the advice of the working group on the short-term unblocking of the files at the RVA and the longer-term discussions on the artist's statute? Thirdly, are you prepared to distinguish between a long-term and short-term solution, on the understanding that the unblocking is not seen as a final answer? For the moment, the files are getting the green light again, and that is a good sign. However, I have heard many stories about decisions taken between October and this time. What will be done with the decisions of the RVA for the last three or four months? Can we come back to the decisions that have been taken? It concerns a large number of recent graduates and it would therefore be interesting to know what we are going to do with the stricter interpretation applied by the RVA over the last four months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u73	Mr President, Minister, I have a similar question. Many artists do not work in permanent employment but are paid per project. In this case, they can make use of a job wage, the so-called cachet scheme. This implies an adapted method of calculating the number of working days needed to open the entitlement to unemployment benefit. However, since the beginning of October last year, the RVA has been using a new, very restrictive interpretation of the concept of job pay. This new interpretation would not only make it almost impossible for artists to enter the artist's statute but also affects many people who are already subject to that statute. I refer to the plenary session of 14 December 2017, where you indicated that a working group was being convened within the Management Committee of the RVA, which would address the issue and would provide the necessary answers by the beginning of 2018, i.e. by the beginning of 2018. What are the concrete results of this working group? Will the RVA return to the original interpretation of the concept of job pay?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just as recapitulating, in order to be admitted to the right to unemployment benefit, a worker must prove a number of working days. In accordance with Article 37 of the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 on unemployment regulations, the legislator assumes the principle of actual days worked. If, with artists, the number of days actually worked can be determined, these days must be taken into account. If the general rule on the number of days actually worked cannot be applied, Article 10 of the Ministerial Decree of 26 November 1991 laying down rules for the application of unemployment regulations provides for a fictitious number of working days on the basis of earnings received. This Article therefore constitutes an exception which applies only to situations where compensation cannot be linked to a working time. The employer and the workers are free to determine the content of the employment contract, but are obliged to comply with the requirements of the CLCs and the principles of unemployment insurance, which are of public policy. When dealing with each dossier, the RVA must ensure that the dossier is dealt with in accordance with the unemployment scheme. All applications are considered on a case-by-case basis. In order to take a decision, the RVA is based on several elements, such as the provisions of the contract of employment, the nature of the contract and the manner in which the performance was carried out, as well as the data of the DmfA, the C4 form, the contract of employment, the employment rules and the collective agreements of the sector. In addition, we will have to pay attention to the fact that the documents that are submitted to the ONEM are always more concise. It should be noted that the directive to which you refer was first published in April 2014 and was only clarified in October 2017. The argument that the RVA would no longer accept applications for unemployment benefit on the basis of the job wage is incorrect. In the last quarter of 2017, a total of 93, nonante-trois, applications for job-based unemployment benefit were applied for in the unemployment offices of Brussels and Antwerp. Of these 70 were accepted. This represents an acceptance rate of more than 75%. In addition, in the case of an agreement on the basis of pay at work, there is a sharp decrease in the reporting of such pay at work. As soon as unemployment benefits are accepted, these declarations are deducted from the benefits. Thus, in 2015, there were 3,240 deductions from post-declaration allowances for 1,785 artists, while in 2017, there were only 1,701 deductions for 903 artists. Moreover, the 2017 figures show that 82% of the paid unemployed with an artistic activity did not work 78 days in the last four quarters. On this issue, topical questions have also been asked in plenary and I have committed myself to clarifying the situation. To this end, on Friday 19 January I had a constructive discussion with some sector representatives from the artistic sector on this statute and on the application of job pay in unemployment regulations. Following these consultations, I asked the chairman of the Joint Committees to draw up an opinion on the salary by the end of February, i.e. shortly. I have not yet received that advice, but I understand that there has been consultation and that additional information has been requested, which we have provided. For now, I'm positive. I hope that the social partners and the chairmen of the joint committees themselves will make a number of proposals, which I believe is best for everyone. A number of topical parliamentary questions informed about what the RVA and ONEM are doing in the meantime. On 31 January I consulted the administrator-general of the National Employment Service on this matter. At that time too, it was found that the intention was not to amend or undermine the derogation for artists. In this spirit, and pending an opinion from the Joint Committees, the RVA will apply the rules pragmatically. I trust that we will be patient until the end of this month, or until next week or a little longer, in order to give the social partners every opportunity to look at this. Meanwhile, the RVA deals with the dossiers with a great deal of care, as is always the case, but now even more closely. Then there's one more point: quid with the past? First of all, I would like to resolve a number of elements with a view to the future and discuss them with the RVA. I hope that we will be able to resolve this dossier fairly quickly and well and I have had a lot of artists on the floor lately. I have also put a great deal of effort into ensuring that, with proper application of the law, we can make clear and sustainable agreements with the social partners for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u75	Minister, thank you for your answer. Very sincerely, we do not understand that this issue of artist status, which is not very positive, is being put on the table because of the ONEM's interpretations that do not respect the spirit of the law. This is the problem every time. We have had these debates several times since 2011. It turns out every time that any part of restrictive interpretations on the part of ONEM. This is not acceptable to the extent that the legislator wanted something else. I do not see why the ONEM keeps making interpretative notes. This time, it's 190 pages! But the law has not changed! The ONEM is sentenced each time by the courts. This is the case whenever an artist lodges an appeal against his exclusion. But artists have little money and all this generates a lot of costs. The courts have something else to do. Despite these convictions, in the end, they are still excluded. Minister, since you like to issue injunctions, you should issue a positive injunction to reinstate all excluded persons under the same conditions as those who have won their trials. It is necessary to restore the spirit of the law which was to accept these salaries to the task as well as the services of technicians. There are no artists without technicians, especially in the performing arts or in the audiovisual sector. When the artist doesn't work, neither does the technician. On the one hand, we implement the tax Shelter, on the other, we sanction the artists. A country without artists or culture is no longer a country! If you say you have received a lot and you love culture, you must first love artists, which means giving them a real status. This country has not been done in recent years and, at the same time, the administration does not respect the spirit of the laws voted here!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u76	I follow by stating that it is not only the spirit, but also the texts. The word "technician" is found in the law. And in its judgments, the Labour Court states that these articles refer to "technicians who make artistic performances". The ONEM knows this very well and exercises a form of intimidation against these artists each time, which is unacceptable. Minister, you have fulfilled your commitments with respect to consultation. I hope that solutions will follow – and I believe in it – with an agreement between Francophones and Dutch speakers, as well as between employers and workers. But it is necessary to settle the fate of those who have been unjustly excluded since October. In this regard, I would like a commitment from you to rectify their situation, without having to go to court to seek redress. On the subject of technicians, at a seminar I have recently organised, the following situation has been presented to me. People make short films and write scripts. They write their screenplay and then put on the film. They are both author, editor (and thus artist) and, at other times, technicians. In today's world, technicality, new technologies and interpretation follow and mix. The law clearly defines what an artistic activity is: the interpretation, performance and production of a work. So it concerns all those people who work in the performing and audiovisual arts, but also in the plastic arts and other creations. They are often forgotten in devices taken into account by the ONEM. Mr Minister, before we separate today, I would like to have a commitment on your part to redress the damage caused to artists who have been wrongfully excluded by the ONEM, whose arguments we have just dispelled. As for the amount represented by the cultural sector in the Belgian economy – and Mr Lowies of the University of Liège took part in the hearings in the Committee on Social Affairs – it reaches 15.6 billion added value (excluding plasticians), 80 million unemployment benefits granted in 2016 to employed artists in situations of unemployment and 2.8 billion public expenditure for cultural services broadcasting and publishing. They therefore bring us more than they cost us, not to mention the cultural and societal contributions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u77	Minister, I heard your answer. The first thing I understand is that you deny that there has been a more restrictive interpretation in recent months. We have a problem with the starting point. One might even wonder why you brought the parties together when, in your opinion, there was no problem before. I'm a little surprised at that interpretation. We are going to wait for the results of the concertation, but on the basis of the echoes I have, I am not very optimistic. You're the one who's gonna take over in case there's no agreement. I would not dare imagine that you would consider this an opportunity. But in any case, your vision of the case is important in this circumstance. I am not reassured, particularly in relation to previous cases. I would like to have a commitment from you that, if there is no agreement, you will still come back to this matter. We will follow this file very closely. I can only join in what my colleagues have made. We must not see in the artistic world a population that wants to take advantage of a flaw in the system in order to avoid actually productive work. That's kind of what's implied. No, precisely, culture is something very important in our society, for the economy, but especially for the individual development of everyone. If we establish a direct profitability, purely commercial and without social intervention, a flock of artists will no longer be able to live in Belgium. That is the problem we have. Today, we are parsing them in a status, the status of artist. I'm glad he still exists. Mr Minister, I hope there will be an agreement, but if that is not the case, I hope you will move the matter in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u78	Mr President, Minister, I note that you expect the Joint Committees to deliver an opinion by the end of February. I think it's normal for you to wait and see. I think it is clear that there is a problem with the interpretation of the concept of job pay. This gave rise to a number of questions at the end of last year. For once, I have to agree with my colleague, Mr Hedebouw. The fact that a working group is being set up does mean something. Also during the recent hearing on the reform of the artist's statute a good week ago, it became clear that there are a number of uncertainties. In this sense, we are indeed waiting for the opinion of the Joint Committees. Whatever that advice may be, it should not be an excuse not to resolve the uncertainty that exists today. The difference in interpretation has far-reaching consequences for many artists who, in accordance with the old interpretation, proved to work correctly and paid contributions and are now faced with a slightly different interpretation or uncertainty, so that they would suddenly no longer build up the same rights as in the past. We must have an eye and understanding for this. It's a very specific group of people. At the same time as taking responsibility and clarifying the misunderstanding as regards the interpretation of the concept of "job pay," it is important to get to work on the concrete commitment contained in the government agreement, namely the reform of the artist's statute. We have had two hearings, one to which I referred and one before the summer, the first hearing. We must do something with it effectively. A great deal has been said and I think the points are clear. The ambition is in the coalition agreement and we are asking parties. I repeat that we see a reason for the existence of artists' statute and that it would be a good thing for everyone that the Statute should be modernised and adapted and that abuse of it should be ruled out as far as possible, as is the case with all the statutes and regulations that are made.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u79	Mr President, I am very pleased that I have so much support for resolving this dossier, and I am also pleased that no one is calling for the Statute to be abolished. After all, I understood that some people, including the majority, see a reform as a abolition of the statute, but I misunderstood that. That clarification is therefore very enlightening. I am certainly not in favour of abolishing the statute by means of a reform. That is why I try to apply the Statute with great caution in a good way. I have also understood in the discussions that in certain cases there is abuse of that statute. However, it has rightly been underlined here that artists are the canaries of a society. They represent what is alive, so the more artists, the better, but I want to ensure that the artists' statute can be used sustainably. I also listened to the RVA in that connection. In some speeches it was a little too quick to discuss the nuance and the caution with which the RVA dealt with this dossier. The RVA applies the law. The service has built up a whole argument why it applies the law as it does, but the RVA is also willing to look at it in a different way. When the social partners reach an agreement, I will not only explain it, but also implement it. If they do not reach agreement, I will also take responsibility for this. However, it is important that no one calls for the status of artists to be abolished or reformed so heavily that there is nothing left of it. That is a very good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u80	Does anyone want to reply to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u81	For artists who have been excluded from early October 2017 until January 19, 2018, the day you asked the ONEM to stop excluding, are you going to do anything?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u82	I will first find a solution as soon as possible. I have noted the question of some of you about the situation of excluded people.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u83	Minister, this question dates back to November 2017. Meanwhile, some water has flowed through the Scheldt. In addition to their primary responsibility to ensure safety...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u84	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u85	Your questions have not yet been raised, Mrs Lanjri.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u86	No, but apparently this meeting ends after about ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u87	It could be. That depends on the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u88	I asked for the meeting to end at 5.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u89	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u90	There are still a lot of questions on the agenda. That is why I propose that I continue with my question. In addition to their primary responsibility to ensure safety, Ryanair's stewards and stewardesses also have the task of selling all kinds of products, such as perfume, spirits and scratches. If they did not obtain their sales quotas, they would receive a letter of formal notice from Ryanair. Moreover, non-achievement of quotas for cabin crew members would have a negative impact on their duty schedule. Indeed, since 2015, Ryanair has been using a five-day flight crew operating system and three days at home. For staff who fail to meet their quota, that privilege would be removed for at least two months. The content of the letter of formal notice would also be rather offensive. You have undoubtedly been able to read these in the press. Minister, are you aware of this problem? Has there ever been an investigation of your inspection or of anyone else into the above-mentioned facts? Does the current Belgian and European legislation prohibit such a practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the sales quotas of Ryanair's cabin crew have not yet been the subject of a complaint to my Department of Monitoring of Social Laws. Consequently, no investigation has been carried out on this issue. With regard to the conformity of practice with European and Belgian law, I should like to draw attention to the judgment of the European Court of Justice, referred to on 14 September 2017, in response to a question referred for a preliminary ruling by the labour court of Bergen. The purpose of the question before the Court is to ascertain whether the Belgian labour courts were competent to rule on disputes between Ryanair and cabin crew members having their home base at Charleroi airport. The Court's reply was affirmative. It could have an impact on whether Belgian labour law is fully applicable to that cabin crew. The criterion assessed by the Court in that case, which is the place where the worker normally works, can be filled in in the same way in both questions of Belgian labour courts and applicability of Belgian labour law in the same way. Pending the judgment of the court in the main proceedings, which is the labour court of Bergen, which will now have to apply the judgment of the Court in its assessment of the substance of the individual dispute, I do not wish to prejudge the assessment of the conformity of this practice of Ryanair's sales quotas with Belgian law. Like you, I am sure that my services are following this file very closely. I hope that the Court will reach a ruling rather quickly. However, you know what everyone has reminded you of, especially the trias politicians or the separation of powers. So I have no choice but to wait with you to see what the Court will say.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u92	Minister, we will indeed await the verdict.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u93	Minister, I have already questioned you a number of times, both in this committee and in plenary, about the day contracts with DHL. On 24 October, you replied that the Monitoring of the Social Laws is therefore requesting and reviewing the data on the day-to-day contracts of the company in question not only DHL but also other debt securities. In addition, the following issues are examined: the motive of temporary agency work, the comparison of the evolution at the time of this form of employment with other forms of employment and the individual wage and work data based on the interrogation of several persons in different positions. In addition, by the end of October 2017, you asked the social partners in the National Labour Council to carry out an evaluation of the regulations on the use of successive day contracts. On the basis of the answers provided by the social partners in the evaluation report, you would then consider the areas where changes should be made to the rules on temporary agency work. I would like to receive answers from you to the following questions. First, what is the result of the TSW's investigation at DHL? Secondly, what is the result of the TSW's investigation into the four other airport companies? Has there been a result of the investigations at national level? Thirdly, is the above-mentioned evaluation report announced by the end of October 2017 already available? If so, what is its content? If not, when will it be available? Fourthly and finally, have you prepared any changes on the basis of this evaluation report?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the investigation carried out by my Department of Monitoring of Social Laws at DHL and Start People has produced the necessary results. I have already been able to explain this in detail on the basis of my policy paper, but I would like to remind you of them. First, in the period June 2017-September 2017, 271 temporary workers working with daily contracts received a fixed or temporary contract from DHL. Temporary contracts shall have a duration of 6 months which may be extended by 6 months. A permanent contract of indefinite duration is then offered. Secondly, after 7 day contracts, weekly contracts will be switched to. Thirdly, as of 2018, a temporary agency worker will receive a contract with DHL after 40 days of temporary work. Fourthly, the number of day-to-day contracts has fallen from 6% to 12% of the workforce to 0.6% to 3% of the workforce. A company cao is planned to limit this percentage to a maximum of 5%. Fifth, and finally, there is a need for better training, information and planning for temporary workers. The approach proposed in this dossier, which aims to reduce day-to-day contracts and improve the flow to fixed contracts, will also be followed for other companies and sectors that make great use of successive day-to-day contracts. The number of controls on temporary agency work will also be increased further. The annual target for 2018 stipulated that each inspector should handle on average at least 10 temporary agency work records. I have not yet received the report on collective agreement 108 which I asked the social partners for a long time ago. I understand that this is the subject of regular meetings within the National Labour Council, but that has not yet been completed. I am convinced that, as in other dossiers, patience here has its limitations and that we still need to be clear in the next few weeks. Otherwise, I will take an initiative myself on collective agreement 108. After all, we cannot wait until the social partners get out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u95	Thank you, Minister. We will, of course, continue to follow this dossier together.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u96	Mr President, Minister, Truflo Rona was finally in a situation very similar to that of Renault 20 years ago. In fact, on the night of December 2 to 3, 2017, Truflo Rona's management, in the middle of Renault's procedure, embarks, without everyone's knowledge, a production of more than 4 million euros of petrochemical valves in order to have it delivered to some of its customers in the United States. This is a complete breach of confidence in the ongoing negotiations concerning the future of 104 families. One can speak of methods of "thugs" that seriously lead the social climate by inflicting a slap on the staff who were nevertheless in a constructive logic, who were trying to enter into a dialogue with management and who still believed in the company that would generate profits. Even after these unworthy acts, the workers decided to continue the work, convinced that other outcomes than closure exist. As a reminder, the company was established more than 50 years ago. She still had excellent results until recently. But in a logic of relocation, the development of other European sites of the multinational took place at the expense of Truflo Belgium, in particular by plundering its know-how. Mr Minister, what is your position with regard to such actions in full phase 1 of the Renault procedure, which totally undermines the spirit of the law? Are you planning to call management representatives to explain the methods used? I recall here that I tabled my question at the beginning of this year. This situation demonstrates the need to change this law. I know you have revived the social partners. What is the status of the discussions with the latter? What is your will to succeed in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u97	Mr President, Mr Daerden, as you know, with regard to the Renault law, I have given the social partners a period of time to find a solution. Within the National Labour Council, measures to modernize the Renault law have already been discussed on several occasions. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, I announced that, if I have not found a solution before Easter, I will make proposals to modernize this law myself. With regard to the Truflo Rona company, which is subject to the Renault law, we learned from the company's lawyer that a social plan would have been signed on 30 January, but the SPF Emploi could not obtain confirmation of this fact from the unions. I hope that is the truth, that a solution has been found and that a social plan has indeed been signed. This has not been confirmed to me by the trade unions, which makes me somewhat uncomfortable, but it is nevertheless possible that an agreement with the trade unions may actually be concluded at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u98	Thank you, Minister. In any case, I hope that in the proposals that either come from the social partners, or that you will bring to the table as a complement or instead of a possible blockage in this matter, you will ensure that these kinds of attitudes can no longer occur, i.e. see management, the shareholder, the owner, come, during the night, to search for the finished or semi-finished product and which, in a way – and I admit that the comparison is a little exaggerated – makes a hold-up in his company and completely breaks the confidence that can exist with the workers! This should be totally prohibited in future proposals and sanctions should be provided for in relation to such conduct. Indeed, it is really contrary to the spirit originally intended, which was intended to encourage negotiations in order to reach social agreements capable of preserving workers and facilitating their reassignment and the possible continuation of an activity taken over by another entrepreneur here in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic827x.u99	In the meantime, Minister, it's half past six. Do you have a minute or not? No? Then we close the questions. The remaining questions will be discussed next time, hopefully as soon as possible.
