ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u1	As far as the order of business is concerned, as I see that there are ten questions on Deliveroo and the status of couriers following the latest court decisions, I propose that it be made a topical debate. This fundamental subject deserves such a debate with the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u2	Mr President, you have been entrusted with the task of regulating the work. It is the House that decides how to work, not the Minister! However, I can tell you that the social inspection, which is looking at this case together with the labour auditors, is still in full swing. I urge every day to finalize the work as quickly as possible. I think it might be more useful for this committee to hold the debate as soon as the results are known and public, even for me, because I cannot have access to the investigation either. I have no problem with the debate, but the timing of the debate seems very important to me. In order to increase the relevance of the debate, I think it is important to add the conclusions and elements that the social inspection and the labour auditors will provide.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u3	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, beyond the ongoing investigations, some of the questions related to the TRC's decision on the status of couriers and that they should be treated as employees and not as self-employed. I wish I'd known what's going on about it. In my view, there have been new developments since questions were put to you in plenary. On that occasion, you had talked about the ongoing inspections, which seem to take a lot of time. But here I would like to draw attention to these new elements that are worth a substantive debate. You have to see what my colleagues think. Indeed, you are right: the committee is sovereign when it comes to determining the order of business. I would therefore like to hear the views of my colleagues before we begin our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u4	Mr President, I would like to ask the minister a little question. Minister, do you have any idea the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u5	No, but I hope we have some results before the summer. But you know very well, Mr. Daerden, that the court and the auditors are working independently and that it is not possible for the minister to demand results before a specific date. That said, I try every day to boost progress in research. Indeed, we all want to find solutions and it will be necessary to organise a debate. But it is not possible for me to table proposals to amend the law while an investigation is under way with three auditors. Indeed, it is not only Brussels, but also Antwerp and Ghent. The review of the Deliveroo system is important. Anyway, I hope, Mr. Daerden, that I will be in possession of the results of this investigation before the summer. In any event, in the interests of transparency, I undertake to communicate these results to you as soon as they are communicated to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u6	Mr President, I realize that we are already entering the debate. Questions are foreseen. Are we going to move towards a topical debate – this is all the less a problem for me as it has already begun – or are we going to ask the questions in a conventional way? I am sorry, Minister, it is not a matter of deciding to delete all the questions on the agenda at once. I can also bring arguments that will already get us to the bottom of the case. We've got to figure it out. Personally, I plead for a topical debate because it is more interactive, it can be limited in time. Without it taking us all afternoon, we have something a little more spontaneous. Even for the minister, this can be interesting and positive. Let everyone stand up, but let us not enter into the debate before the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u7	Mr President, in any case, we will have the debate; that is not what this is about. As far as speaking time is concerned, I think we can even gain some time by making it a topical debate, since there are ten questions on the order of business. However, I would suggest that the topical and urgent debate should take place, because that is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u8	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to weigh up the arguments. Indeed, we do not yet have all the elements in the dossier to carry out the debate in substance and in detail. That is why I propose that we stick to the agenda. There are ten questions on the agenda. I therefore assume that this will lead to a brief debate, but we do not turn it into a topical debate, as colleagues ask. According to the Rules of Procedure, it seems that I have decision-making power on that point. I therefore propose that we stick to the agenda as it currently stands.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u9	Minister, in October last year it became clear that Belgian companies are using Eurogrit's so-called white asbestos or chrysotile products. The Labour Inspectorate of the FPS Employment had conducted an investigation and already communicated that there was no danger. Moreover, it was claimed that there were very low levels of asbestos in the industrial cleaning product. No further measures were therefore taken. Is the source of asbestos already out of date? Has an inventory been made of all the companies that used the product? Have measurements been carried out on the possible presence of asbestos concentrations everywhere? How do you intend to prevent similar cases? Is it not important to work for a global ban on the use of asbestos? What is the Belgian Government doing to promote such a general ban? Is it not useful to establish a knowledge platform on asbestos by analogy with the Netherlands, which can inform companies and individuals in the event of serious threats to asbestos and warn them of the dangers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u10	Since the contaminated steel grit came from a Dutch company, the investigation into the cause of the pollution is carried out by the Dutch government. As far as is known, the raw material for the production of the contaminated steel grit has been imported from several countries, including Ukraine. The Belgian inspection of the Welfare at Work has contacted the supplier-importer to identify the affected companies in Belgium. Through cooperation with other inspection services, for example on the environment, we have an image of the companies concerned, the amount of Eurogrit purchased and its use. A number of companies are suppliers only and have not worked with the product. In total, it concerns some 20 companies. The undertakings concerned have been instructed by the supplier to immediately stop the use or delivery of the steel grit, second, to have an asbestos analysis carried out by an expert and, third, to store the product in such a way that it cannot be further disseminated. The inspection Monitoring of Welfare at Work has visited several users. The Federal Environmental Inspection has visited a number of distributors. This shows that the companies had been informed by the supplier and had stopped using Eurogrit. In addition, the necessary measures had been taken to minimise the exposure of workers. Air measurements showed that the occupational exposure limit values were not exceeded. A global ban on the use of asbestos is indeed not often true, but if you are right, I admit that grif is the best way to prevent products containing asbestos from entering the European market. The European REACH Regulation No. 1907/2006 already prohibits the manufacture, placing on the market and use of asbestos fibres and articles and mixtures to which those fibres have been intentionally added. Belgium also supports resolutions by several bodies calling for a global ban on the use of asbestos, such as the 2006 International Labour Organisation Resolution on asbestos and the European Parliament Resolution on asbestos of 14 March 2013, which also addresses strategies for a global ban on asbestos. Finally, Belgium also advocates the inclusion of chrysotilasbest in the Rotterdam Convention on international trade in dangerous substances. The other types of asbestos have already been absorbed. The prior informed consent procedure imposed by that Convention prevents the transport of dangerous substances without prior knowledge of the receiving country. So, Mr Hedebouw, we are working on that. Studies have already been carried out and information has been disseminated. I suppose the exposure of workers to asbestos is an extra concern for you, too. This is also the subject of attention, and we are keeping that in mind. It will not be before the summer of this year that a global ban on these products will become a reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. First of all, it is surprising how easy asbestos can still be imported into Belgium. In this sense, the sector should be much more efficient. Secondly, I have noted what measures have been taken to freeze the use and sale, but I cannot tell you from your reply what quantities of the substance have already been used in Belgium. However, that seems to me to be an important point. Thirdly, as far as contacts with the Netherlands are concerned, I think that sanctions are certainly needed in relation to the company in question, which clearly plays with people's lives. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u12	Mr President, Minister, in June 2017, Red Cross Flanders launched a dismissal procedure against an ABBV delegate for an alleged serious professional error. In September, the court ruled that no serious error was committed by the employee. The Red Cross appealed to that. On 13 November, the Labour Court also ruled on appeal that no serious error was committed. In principle, the employee was able to return to work, but the same evening the Red Cross decided to ignore the two judgments of the judges and to dismiss the ADVV delegate. Unfortunately, this can be done in Belgium through a back door in the law. After all, the law allows protected workers to be dismissed without any reason, provided that a substantial financial penalty is paid. In an interview with Het Laatste Nieuws, the Red Cross clearly admits that she takes the money from the budget for the reception of asylum seekers. A petition was circulated for several months, with more than 1 500 signatures, which supports the worker and demands that she get back to work with the Red Cross. Over the past eight years, the worker has worked very hard for the reception of asylum seekers, which is now being taken away from her together with her livelihood. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. First of all, have there been any contacts between you and the Red Cross on this matter? If not, do you intend to do this? If so, did you insist that the Red Cross revise its decision? Secondly, do you have figures of staff members who have been dismissed despite a favourable decision by the labour court? Can you give an overview of the decisions taken by the courts regarding the dismissal of staff members? Thirdly, will you seek to improve the protection of staff members when it appears that companies or organisations ignore the rulings of an independent court if they pay a financial penalty? Fourthly, will you, in future, take action to ban the improper use of state subsidies, in this case for the dismissal of a staff delegate?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u13	Mr President, Mr Hedebouw, I can tell you in general that I was not contacted by either the employer or the employee. It is well known that the Minister cannot intervene in individual cases and that if there is to be a discussion between the parties, the courts must be heard. As can be seen from other dossiers, it is not desirable and even legally impossible for the Minister to intervene in each individual case. You're not arguing for that either. However, your question also contains a number of general aspects on which I shall go into more detail. Employees who are members of staff in the consultation bodies of an undertaking must have the guarantee that they can exercise their mandate freely and without pressure from the employer. That is why the Law of 19 March 1991 provides for special protection against dismissal for such workers. Members of staff may be dismissed only for an urgent reason which was previously adopted by the labour court or for economic or technical reasons which were previously recognised by the competent joint body. Where an employer wishes to dismiss his employee representative for a serious error, the law provides for a strict procedure whereby the employer must obtain recognition of the urgent reason of the judge in the labour court and, where appropriate, after appeal to the labour court before he can actually resign the worker concerned. That procedure is therefore more important than the general procedure of dismissal for urgent reasons. If the court does not recognise the urgency of the matter, the employer cannot regularly dismiss the staff delegate. If the employer nevertheless terminates the contract of employment without complying with the conditions and procedures laid down in the law, the worker or his trade union may apply for his reintegration into the company. In addition, in order to make this special protection for dismissal effective, the legislator has provided for severe penalties for an employer who does not comply with the prescribed conditions and procedures. In the first place, the irregularly dismissed worker or employee representative shall be entitled to a flat-rate allowance equivalent to the current wage, which shall correspond to the duration of no less than two to four years, depending on the seniority of the undertaking. In addition, if the employer fails to respond to the demand for reintegration of the redundant worker, he shall be liable for a variable remuneration corresponding to the remuneration for the remaining part of the period up to the end of his term of office. I assume, however, that you already knew all this. The legislator has therefore not opted to provide for compulsory reintegration of the irregularly dismissed worker. The employer may consider that further cooperation is absolutely impossible. On the other hand, the legislator has chosen to sanction the employer with an additional remuneration, since the employee delegate concerned cannot continue to exercise his mandate as a result of his unlawful dismissal and the absence of reintegration into the undertaking. Through the above limitation, which I explained, and through severe sanctions if the employer does not comply with this limitation, such special protection for employees was provided by law. Unfortunately, no figures are available for dismissed union representatives. Our social dialogue model contains a procedure for reconciliation in the event of disputes. This conciliation procedure, in which the chairman of the Joint Committee plays an important role, is very efficient and can often lead to a solution in these cases. Finally, I can also tell you that there are no plans to amend the existing legislation. In fact, I did not receive any signal from the social partners to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u14	Minister, thank you for your general answer. It goes without saying that we regret this possibility of putting any union delegate out for two to four years' pay. It's the sale! There are many examples of this type. Therefore, it would be interesting, Minister, to have figures. I am not asking for individual cases. I would like to know how many people, despite a clear and clear judgement in their favour, have been dismissed. This would make it possible to have an order of magnitude of these grave attacks on democratic rights. In France, this is not limited to sanctions but to obligations. Dismissal is illegal. Since the employer has economic power, it is easy for the employer to pay three or four years' notice. After that, people will no longer dare to express themselves in the company. I've known this case very closely. My mother got fired because she was a union delegate. The climate in the company is changing. People don't dare say anything anymore because, anyway, they'll be at the door. As Minister of Labour, you have an important responsibility to change things. We have introduced a bill. If you propose a bill that does not establish sanctions but an obligation to reinstate, you will have our full support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u15	Mr President, Minister, I was contacted by the staff of nursery workers who were initially public, but were taken over by a private institution under the Joint Committee 331. However, that institution shall not apply to the staff taken over the remuneration and other conditions applicable to that Joint Committee. It concerns the scales of wages, the granting of compensation for travel expenses and the VAP days. My questions are as follows. Is it true that the transferred workers have the right to demand from the transferee the maintenance of the individual and collective working conditions which result from them and which were applicable to the transferor at the time of the transfer, but that new benefits will also come under the new Joint Committee for the staff taken over? If so, do you know, in your capacity as Minister, of abuses which do not apply? Can you instruct the inspection services to supervise this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u16	Mr President, Mrs Kitir, what you are describing seems to be a special case of transfer of business, because there are staff of daycare centres that were initially public "municipality', but which were taken over by a private institution that would belong to the joint committee of the Flemish welfare and health sector, which is the joint committee 331. It would therefore be a transfer from a public-sector company to a private-sector company. The transfer of an undertaking and its impact on the conditions of employment of the staff taken over is a rather complex matter. A thorough examination of the factual and legal circumstances of the case is necessary. In concrete disputes, the judge will ultimately judge on the basis of the concrete elements presented to him by the parties. In the absence of specific elements, I can give the following to your two questions. European Directive No...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Council Directive 2001/23 of 12 March 2001 regulates the transfer of undertakings, businesses or parts of undertakings or establishments. This Directive shall apply to public and private undertakings engaged in an economic activity whether or not for profit. In Belgium, the transfer of private sector enterprises is regulated by collective agreement No. 32a... I assume you already have that knowledge. To the extent that all the conditions of application of this Directive are met, the following principles shall apply: the rights and obligations of the transferor arising from the employment contract or employment relationship existing at the time of the transfer shall be transferred to the transferee. After the transfer, the new employer must respect the agreement which the former employer has signed until the termination or termination of the collective agreement, or at which another collective agreement enters into force or is applied. The main task of the General Directorate of Supervision of the Social Laws of my department is to check compliance with wage and working conditions by employers and employees. It will therefore monitor possible infringements. First of all, it will determine which joint committee is competent and then what wage and working conditions must be respected. As you know, the Labour Inspectorate has an obligation of professional secrecy as set out in Article 59. So I do not really know what the state of affairs is at the moment, because the Labour Inspectorate does not give me any information on this. Should there be a need for more information, I assume that the person concerned can address himself to the General Directorate of Supervision of Social Laws. Cao No. 32a, however, is quite clear. Unfortunately, as far as the labour inspectorate is concerned, I cannot say anything because I do not know anything about it either. However, I assume that in this specific case we know very well how to apply the rules and laws. I have tried to explain this here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u17	Minister, as you yourself described, the legislation is very clear on the wage and working conditions that were applicable at that time. I respect the confidentiality of your inspection services. I would like to hear that they will ensure that wages and working conditions are respected. For further questions, I will refer those concerned to your services.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u18	Mr Minister, the decree of 16 November 2017 on combating discrimination in employment in the Brussels-Capital Region empowers regional employment inspectors to carry out discrimination tests in the field of employment which can take two forms, in particular practical tests and mystery calls. As regards the practical test, it is claimed that it consists of sending similar applications by the employment inspectors of couples which differ only on one criterion which may lead to discrimination. The submission of these applications is in principle done in response to a job offer and in the absence of it as spontaneous applications. However, the Council of State stated: "The proposed article of the ordinance aims to enable a practical test consisting of sending similar applications by the employment inspectors of couples which differ only on one criterion which may lead to discrimination. That refers to Article 2 of the draft. The Council of State also says: "Thus, the employment inspectors are given control powers in respect of discrimination in recruitment, or still, in the negotiations on the conclusion of a contract of employment. However, pursuant to Article 6 (1), VI, 12° of the Special Law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions, the latter is a matter for the Federal Government. The Council of State concludes that the reasoning of the implicit powers can only be applied in so far as it can be considered necessary for the exercise of its own jurisdiction, the matter is differentiated and the effects of the provisions in question on that matter are only marginal. The discrimination test can therefore only be carried out within the framework of regional competences in the field of employment. On the basis of the above-mentioned concerns of the Council of State, it would be assumed that the Brussels legislator would amend the draft decree, quod non: the draft was adopted and published in the Belgian Official Journal with some adjustments of points and commas. I would have liked to ask the following questions, Minister. Are you aware of this illegal granting of federal powers to the Brussels employment inspectors? Are any discrimination found in recruitment or in negotiations on the conclusion of a contract of employment by Brussels employment inspectors not null and void? Will you strictly ensure that the regional employment inspectors do not intervene in the field of recruitment and negotiation of a contract of employment, which are federal powers? Were you involved in the establishment of that ordinance? Was there prior consultation with the Monitoring of Social Laws of the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in case you have any doubts, I am aware of the scope of the Brussels decree. In principle, the Brussels Region is only competent to carry out practical tests within the regional competences, such as job placement, employment, non-working jobseekers, target groups policy, service cheques and PWAs. However, in its decree, the Brussels Region grants its inspection services the control of discrimination in recruitment or in negotiations on the establishment of a contract of employment, which are federal powers. The Brussels Region is therefore not normally competent to do so, but the Brussels Region invokes the implicit powers provided for in Article 10 of the Special Law of 8 August 1980. On that basis, they can enter the jurisdiction of another government, in this case the federal government, to the extent necessary for the exercise of their own powers. The Council of State is following the Brussels Region, which you may or may not regret. The Brussels Region may therefore have discrimination tests carried out in the case of recruitment or in the case of negotiations on the conclusion of a contract of employment, but only if they are exercised within the framework of regional powers in the field of employment. In the explanatory memorandum, the Brussels Region itself gives an example. The monitoring of the availability of the unemployed, which has become a regional competence as a result of the sixth state reform, implies being able to check whether the unemployed are looking for active employment. This requires, if necessary, the possibility of examining cases in which interested parties refer to discriminatory recruitment mechanisms that nullify their efforts to seek work. In those circumstances, the need to be able to carry out discrimination tests in order to verify the basis of such statements is self-evident. Secondly, whether or not discrimination established in the case of recruitment or the negotiation of a contract of employment by the Brussels employment inspectors will be null and void is a matter for the courts and courts. In view of the trias politician, therefore, I will not speak on this issue. Thirdly, following the principal approval of this decree by the Brussels regional government, my policy cell was immediately invited by the competent Brussels minister to a consultation involving the relevant administrations, control services, the Brussels employment inspection and the federal inspection of the Social Laws. Since a law was also passed at federal level to enable mysterycalls as a detection technique for the federal inspection service, particular attention is paid to the points of contact of both laws and competences. In particular, agreements in principle have already been made in order to avoid duplication and duplication of powers by inspection services in investigations. An adapted scientific control methodology shall be prepared for this purpose. Of course, as Federal Minister of Work, I am not competent to intervene in the establishment of the Brussels Order of 16 November 2017. In this respect, I hope that you have received sufficient information with this answer. If necessary, you can ask a new question later on about how this has all happened in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u20	Thank you very much, Minister, for this clear and well-founded answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u21	Mr President, Minister, according to Eurostat, the statistical office of the European Union, for every 100 jobs in Belgium there are 3.6 positions in power. The vacancy rate in Belgium is one of the largest in Europe. For the past two years, Belgium has been in the European lead in this area: ahead of us the Czech Republic with 4.1% of job vacancy rates and, behind us, Germany with 2.7%. However, the unemployment rate in these two countries is much lower than in ours, reaching 4% and 3.6% respectively, compared with 6.9% in ours. The European Union's finding is that the Belgian labour market is one of the most tense where labour market supply and demand struggle to meet and match. Minister, how do you explain this 3.6% vacancy rate? What are the main reasons and factors for understanding this? How do you explain that it is more important than in countries with lower unemployment rates? Should the structure of the labour market be questioned by the public authorities? How did this rate change during the legislature? What are the main sectors of professional activity where employers seek but do not find available workers? Will the reforms linked to the extension of flexi-jobs help to reduce the vacancy rate in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u22	Mr President, Mrs Galant, the vacancy rate can be used, among other things, as an indicator of unsatisfied job offers. The combination of a high vacancy rate and a slightly lower unemployment rate than the EU average indicates a mismatch between supply and demand. The existence of such a mismatch was confirmed by the 2017 report for Belgium drawn up by the European Commission in the framework of the European Semester. In addition to this lack of competence, the report highlights other factors such as limited geographical and occupational mobility in our country as well as the need for additional language skills. The situation is most pronounced for those with low qualifications and those with an immigrant background. As you are well aware, the matching of supply and demand in the labour market is primarily a responsibility of the regions, including through training policy, job-seekers' support and active labour market policy. The federal government supports this through measures to encourage demand for labour in general. According to Eurostat, the Belgian job vacancy rate has remained relatively stable in recent years, before 2014, followed by a slight increase between 2014 and 2016 and a slightly stronger increase between the last quarter of 2016 and the third quarter of 2017. Analysis of specific job shortages is carried out annually by employment services. I refer to the VDAB, Forem and Actiris web pages. Since 1 January 2018, the flexi-job system has been extended to the retail sector, which includes a number of professions in need such as hairdressers, bakers, butchers and retail vendors. The success of the flexi-jobs system in the Horeca indicates that this system can also be useful here. However, the flexi-jobs system has been created in order to be able to use additional temporary and part-time labour forces. These flexi-jobs cannot replace regular jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u23	Minister, thank you. We will be paying attention to the measures taken at regional level to try to reduce this inadequacy to a lower rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u24	Minister, the reintegration of long-term patients into the world of work is one of the government's priorities. According to INAMI, their number was 390,765 in 2016. Since 1 January, companies can call long-term sick workers back and redirect them to a suitable job or another job. The problem is that, for many, the employer is not in a position to offer it to them. Doctors at work find 70% unfit to return to work. The result is a dismissal. There is even pressure on business doctors to ensure that the long-term patient is deemed unfit. However, according to the trade unions, the majority of requests for re-entry are made by the worker himself. The desire to return to work is therefore very real. In addition, the government is acting in accordance with the political philosophy of empowering individuals to have the emancipatory right to work. Minister, how many people were categorized in 2017 as long-term patients? How many of them have found their way to employment? What are the main sectors of activity affected by this phenomenon? How do you explain that the majority of reintegration journeys result in dismissals? Do you consider pressure on doctors to be intolerable? How do you intend to combat this practice? Since the right to work is an essential right that frees the individual, by what means do you think this trend will be reversed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u25	Minister, in four years we will record 20% more long-term sick. The long-term absenteeism last year was almost a fifth higher than in 2014 according to the calculations of the provider of personnel services Acerta. The figures correspond to the statistics of the public institution RIZIV for the first half of the year. Last year, 2.76% of working hours were not worked, because employees were ill for more than a year. Four years earlier, that percentage was at 2.32%. Halfway through 2017, more than 372 000 employees and more than 24 000 self-employed people were ill for more than a year. Acerta Consult is concerned about increasing absenteeism due to long-term illness. Although the figures refer both to accidents, physical conditions and psychological complaints, Acerta suspects that the increase occurs mainly in the latter category. For example, it concerns workers with stress or burn-out. Since early 2016, long-term sick people have been subject to the law on reintegration into the labour market. According to a survey conducted by the ABVV and the ACV in a survey of the external prevention services, seven out of ten cases are dismissed for no adapted or no other work. The study was conducted after the first six months of the new Reintegration Act. From January 1st of this year, the system was extended to long-term sick people who have already become ill before January 1st 2016. These are people who have often been ill for five or ten years. Many of the concerns we expressed at the committee meeting on 24 October are, of course, still valid. In our view, the causes of long-term illness should be combated rather than the long-term sick workers or the sickness funds. I quote: "The highest figure on long-term absenteeism is recorded among workers between 60 and 64 years old. More than 25% of them are absent for more than one year. One in four workers is a phenomenally high number, while the government wants to keep the workers in that category longer to work by raising the retirement age. It is therefore perfectly understandable that so many workers are out of work. They used to be able to have a bridge pension on acceptable terms, now they can't. Firstly, in consultation with your colleague De Block, you would ask the NAR to carry out an evaluation of the reintegration law. What's the status of that? Secondly, how and with what policy do you intend to reverse the trend of long-term diseases? Thirdly, how many workers have been dismissed for a long-term illness without compensation? What's become of the victims? Fourthly, how many fines have been paid to employers who did not follow the procedure? Fifthly, how many checks were carried out by the social inspection and with what result? Sixthly, do you intend to put more pressure on employers, for example through quotas, to provide more adapted or other work? Seventhly, in the Netherlands, employers are responding for up to two years to the costs of workers who have become ill for a long time, which encourages them to take the reintegration within the company seriously. The results are therefore more positive. How do you assess that fact?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u26	Minister, we know that the government has made it a priority to triumph in the socio-economic fields. Work is the cornerstone of government: creating fiscal and social conditions for hiring, encouraging the unemployed to return to employment and increasing the net wages of workers. Among these measures are vocational reintegration for long-term patients: 12,000 cases have been initiated by doctors, which in itself is a great success. However, according to IDEWE, only 30% of these patients actually found a job suitable for their job reintegration. Another concern is the high propensity of those concerned to resign after a few months. As a result, you asked the National Labour Council to evaluate the system. Minister, we support any initiatives and actions that promote employment on our soil. Re-integration routes are a good measure, but time must be allowed for them to act fully and help the most vulnerable members of our society. How do you analyze IDEWE figures? Are they encouraging? How do you explain the high rate of resignation among those who use these reintegration routes? When can we expect a response to your request to the NTC to evaluate the system? You yourself said that it would take time for mentalities to change in relation to reintegration journeys. Is this, in your opinion, the only obstacle preventing the optimalisation of this measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the requested figures on long-term incapacity for work and authorised work, I should like to refer you back to my colleague, the Minister for Social Affairs, who is responsible for this matter. However, I can tell you that I agree with you that the figures available need to be analysed further. That is precisely why, last autumn, Minister De Block and I asked the social partners in the National Labour Council to launch the legally required review of the new reintegration legislation in the consultation platform Return to Work. The first meeting took place in December 2017. The consultations are still ongoing. The evaluation allows to identify the different effects of the legislation. Only afterwards can we draw conclusions and, if necessary, adjust the rules. However, I would like to add a comment. There is a claim that the reintegration of long-term sick would only succeed at 6%. These external prevention services indicate that the introduction of the reintegration path has also given additional impetus to the other possibilities for seeking adapted or other work in the event of health problems. After all, when there is a good understanding between employer and employee, reintegration can also take place outside the statutory reintegration process, for example through a progressive resumption of work after a visit, prior to the resumption of work, to the employer. In addition, a reintegration process may only be started in order to determine how the employee can re-take the work through tailor-made work in the undertaking and not with the intention of terminating the employee's employment contract. I am therefore confident that the prevention counsellors/workers will not cooperate with practices which do not comply with their legal mandate to "promot employment opportunities for all, including those with limited working capacity'. This quote comes from the Codex on well-being at work, in which it is explicitly included. Employers are also legally obliged to participate in the smooth progress of reintegration pathways. If not, there may be an infringement of welfare legislation that can be prosecuted criminally. I would also like to point out that the termination of the contract of employment was possible even before reintegration legislation was in place because of the so-called medical force majeure. Since there was a lack of clarity about the practical application, the social partners in the National Labour Council in their Opinion No. 1923 of 24 February 2015 specifically requested to clarify this. This was done with the Law of 20 December 2016. From now on, the contract of employment can only be terminated on the basis of medical force majeure after the reintegration process for workers who are permanently unfit for their old job has been completed and the possibilities for other or adapted work has been examined. For the sake of clarity, medical force majeure does not automatically end the contract of employment, but only when one of the parties to the contract of employment invokes it. This can be both the employer and the employee. No figures are available on the number of terminations of the employment contract due to medical force majeure, but this aspect will undoubtedly be taken into account in the ongoing evaluation in the NAR. Mr Hedebouw, you asked for information on the number of checks. I can inform you that since 1 January 2017, a number of inspections in the field of reintegration have certainly been carried out by the TWW Executive Board. If you are interested, I can give you some specific information on this. In addition, 36 appeals against decisions of the employer were also brought before the labour inspector of the TWW Executive Board. A comparison with the Dutch situation is not so easy to make, as the system is completely different from the Belgian system. Finally, I would like to stress that the regulation on reintegration in Belgium is still quite new and may take some time to reach cruising speed. After all, employers, workers and doctors need to learn what works in order to successfully reintegrate people. This is why the collective part of reintegration is extremely important because it allows for a wider support for reintegration into the enterprise.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u28	Minister, thank you. We will pay close attention to the evaluation of the system once it has been carried out by the National Labour Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u29	Minister, thank you for the figures. We will read the document and follow this assessment very closely. It will obviously have many repercussions on the future of other end-of-career measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u30	Mr President, Minister, as you know, we have always approved and accompanied the government's measures to create employment in our country. The government has been working to reduce unemployment as effectively as possible through ambitious and innovative economic reforms. This government's economic reforms are unprecedented, as the National Bank of Belgium recently pointed out, particularly with regard to flexi-jobs. They have created more than 28,000 jobs in the Horeca, which demonstrates their usefulness and effectiveness in the socio-economic reality of this sector. However, we were surprised to learn that 95% of these were in the Flemish Region and 5% in Wallonia and Brussels, i.e. around 1,500 flexi-jobs. Minister, in view of these figures, how do you explain such disproportion between the regions of our country? How do you explain that the overwhelming majority of flexi-jobs are created in Flanders rather than Wallonia? More broadly, how can you draw up flexi-jobs since they were set up two years ago? The status of flexi-jobs will be extended to the retail sector. Are such disproportions also to be feared in this sector between the different regions of our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u31	Mr President, Minister, many of the concerns we expressed in the committee of 24 October 2017 regarding the extension of flexi-jobs are of course still valid. You even said in committee that there was no common position among the social partners within the NAR, which confirms that our concerns are more than justified. Since the expansion of flexi-jobs to trade, I am thinking in particular of the Joint Committees Nos 118.03, 119, 201, 202, 311, 312 and 314, and to pensioners from January 2018, it is now clear that in the first two months 1 515 people are working at the bakery, butcher or shop. There would also be about 1 944 pensioners working through flexi-jobs. You said in committee last year that the positive budgetary impact of the measure is estimated at EUR 31.5 million due to the increase in employment and social contributions applicable to flexi-jobs. About this evolution I have the following questions. Firstly, how many people with a flexi job currently work full-time? Secondly, has the volume of labour increased, remained unchanged or decreased? In other words, does this increase in flexi-jobs mean an increase in employment since the introduction of this extension or has existing full-time jobs been divided into multiple flexi-jobs? Thirdly, do pensioners with a flexi job not compete with young workers? Fourthly, when will an evaluation of this enlargement be planned? Fifthly, is there any intention to extend flexi-jobs to other sectors? Sixthly, has there already been a sectoral agreement for the supermarkets? If not, where are the bottlenecks? Seventh, has there been any consultation with the trade unions at any time? Is consultation with the trade unions planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my administration has not yet done a full analysis of the reasons for the difference in the success of flexi-jobs between Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. Since flexiworkers have to have an employment contract of 80% or more with another employer in addition to the flexi-job, it is possible that in Wallonia and, to a lesser extent, Brussels, work will be carried out mainly on the existing occasional work systems in the hospitality sector. Indeed, flexi-job employment in Wallonia and Brussels could have been less successful to date as this form of employment in that region was less promoted and less informed. Another reason for the lack of success may be the wait-and-see attitude that was initially taken in Brussels and Wallonia, given the procedures of the various trade unions at the Constitutional Court against the regulation of flexi-jobs. Following the rejection by the Constitutional Court in its judgment of 28 September 2017 of all the arguments put forward by the trade unions, the flexistatus may also gradually become applicable in Wallonia and Brussels. A first study was carried out in 2017 which examined the effects of the new system on the employment evolution in the catering sector. The study can be found on the website of the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Consultation. At present, the Statistics Service of the RSZ only has the data up to the fourth quarter of 2017 for the Dimona data and up to the third quarter of 2017 for the DmfA data. The 28 000 jobs referred to in the question is a census of the number of persons for whom a Dimona registration has taken place. These are declarations that an employer must make before an employee is employed or out of service. Dimona data only say something about the intention to recruit a particular employee, without taking into account the actual recruitments. Dimona declarations also do not contain information on full-time or part-time benefits. After the end of the quarter in question, the employer must also submit a so-called DmfA or quarterly declaration. This is what actual working hours and wages must be indicated. It is only on the basis of the DmfA that a real volume of flexi-jobs can be determined. In this way it can be found that for the quarters in which we have both the data of Dimona and DmfA, the number of persons declared as flexiworkers in the DmfA declaration is 7.5 to 12.5 % lower in the quarter than in the Dimona declaration. In addition, it can be seen that there is a large difference between the number of people active in a flexi-job and the total volume of their performance in those jobs. For the third quarter of 2017, the last quarter for which data are currently available, the work of the 26 730 declared persons as flexiworkers represents only 3 299 full-time equivalents. I have here a table where everything is sorted out, and I will deliver it to those who are interested. On the basis of their employment during the reference period, we can see that most flexiworkers come from the area of accommodation and meals. These are 9 246 persons. The following sectors are the wholesale and retail trade, the repair of cars and motorcycles with 4 222 persons and the industry with 3 590 persons. That's also in the table I can get you. In the absence of reliable data, it is impossible to comment on the effects of the expansion of flexi-jobs, which has only been introduced since 1 January 2018. However, I will closely monitor the evolution of the use of flexi-jobs in the different sectors and their impact on employment. I can assure you that I have no intention of extending flexi-jobs to other sectors. Finally, I would like to inform you that the theme of flexi-jobs has not yet been formally addressed in the Joint Committees 202 of the Integrated Supermarkets, 311 and 312 and has not therefore been the subject of discussions or sectoral consultations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u33	Minister, thank you. We will be more attentive to the evolution of the 2018 figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u34	Minister, thank you for these answers. We will look at this issue very closely and will pay particular attention to the new commitment you have just made not to extend flexi-jobs. You had already committed yourself to it for the first time at a commission; then they were extended to the retail trade. We will therefore monitor this with the utmost care.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u35	Minister, at the end of December I submitted this question on the workability scan. Through the OECD reports on the Better Life Index, I learned that the Belgians score fairly well, namely 8.6/10 for the balance between work and private life. According to the OECD, this has not increased the Belgian workload over the past two years. However, the Flemish employment figures say the opposite. Officially there is indeed enough free time, but according to the Flemish data the sensed work stress was never as high as in the past year. Only one in two Flemings thinks his work is still workable and is satisfied with his work-private balance. One in three Flemings puts too much work stress to experience. The Flemish social partners therefore launched an action plan against work stress, which includes the workability scan for companies. Through such a workability scan, companies can voluntarily ask for a screening to understand what causes stress and stress peaks on the workplace floor. I have the following questions. First of all, what's your opinion on the workability scan? Do you support this measure? Do you see opportunities to roll out the workability scan, which today is only possible for the Flemish companies, to the whole country, with the support of the social partners, who obviously have a role in this? Secondly, could such a workability scan be eligible as a burn-out prevention project, which can be financed from the budget for risk groups?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u36	Mr Lanjri, the workability scan was developed for a specific sector, in particular service cheques. It consists of second parts, on the one hand, a part which evaluates the perception of workability from the employer's point of view and, on the other hand, a part in which employees are questioned about their perception of workability. It was developed by the sector, which is covered by the Joint Committee 322.01, in cooperation with the European Social Fund, under the Employment Fund established by that sector. It is important for a sector to develop its own tool to help its businesses to take preventive action. The scan allows a number of figures to be collected that can assist companies in assessing the problem of workability. On the basis of this prediagnosis, the undertaking must then determine the actions to be taken to improve workability. The scan approaches the workability in function of three themes: stress, motivation and the balance between work and private life. The Welfare Act requires each undertaking to implement a prevention policy covering all occupational risks in order to safeguard the health and safety of workers and thus make the work workable. In particular, that legislation requires that an analysis of the psychosocial risks is carried out. That's in book I, title 3, of the Codex. The analysis should take into account the dangers arising from work organisation, content, working conditions, working conditions and interpersonal relations. The workability scan contributes to that analysis because it relates to a number of those elements. I therefore support any initiative taken by a sector to help businesses reflect on the problems of well-being at work, with a view to developing preventive actions, even if the initiative contributes only partially to this. Since the workability scan was developed at the initiative of the Employability Fund, the scan also exists in French. It is up to the sector to encourage its use throughout the country. In the field of burn-out prevention of groups at risk, provision is made for projects to be submitted by both companies and sectors. As discussions between the two sides of industry are still ongoing, it is not yet possible to determine the content of these projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u37	Minister, I hope that such instruments, possibly adapted to the sector, can be developed further in consultation with the social partners. I also hope that, wherever possible, financial support can also be provided. We have every interest in ensuring that people find a good balance between work and private life, in order to avoid burn-outs as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u38	Mr Minister, on 9 March the Administrative Commission on Employment decided that a courier employed by Deliveroo does not carry out an independent work. The terms of employment would indicate an employee status. A courier from Deliveroo works in a subordinate context, which is typical for an employee. He has little room for manoeuvre to arrange his own working time or work himself. For example, the courier must pass on a week in advance when it is available for the platform, a work schedule that Deliveroo eventually approves. The fact that hierarchical control is possible is demonstrated by the fact that the company continuously follows him through GPS. What is the correct scope of the CAR's decision on Deliveroo? When will that decision be definitively binding? What are the concrete consequences for Deliveroo? Does the decision have any impact on other companies that also operate as intermediaries with staff from a platform? Does the decision affect the ongoing investigations of the labour auditors and inspection services? It is reported that Deliveroo refused to participate in the CAR investigation. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u39	Mr President, Minister, as my colleague has just mentioned, Deliveroo has been the subject of news since the beginning of the year. In fact, we had the opportunity to discuss this issue at the presentation of Budget 2018. First of all, let me go back to the aftermath of the strike by many deliverers of the Deliveroo platform that took place in early January. At the time, delivery agents protested against the company's unilateral decision to consider them self-employed. In doing so, they risked challenging their minimum hourly remuneration and effective protection at work. For my group, technological progress must be accompanied by social progress. Therefore, workers in the platform economy must be able to enjoy the same rights and obligations as other workers. That is why we have tabled a bill aimed at decent hourly pay and adequate protection for these workers. I welcome your initiative to launch several investigations in a coordinated manner to determine the status of the Deliveroo bike couriers. These surveys will make it possible to check whether social legislation is being complied with, which is a good thing. Minister, I come to the first set of questions. Can you give us details of the investigations that are under way and that have started concurrently? What results can we hope for? Are you already in possession of some orientation elements? You answered the question about availability of results. I understand that they will be sent to you in June and that you will present them to us as a matter of priority. Do you also intend to present these results to the social partners and to organise with them a reflection on possible legislative developments? Are there any negotiations with them on this matter? The second set of questions follows what we mentioned in the debate in committee on the 2018 budget. You then stated that the inspection services had already conducted investigations into the Uber and Deliveroo files. It was before the January strike. Are the January surveys complementary to those expected in December 2017, or do they have nothing to do with them? What results are available with respect to previous investigations and work? Can you provide us with the results of the 2017 surveys of these two types of platforms? Again, have the social partners been informed? What initiatives have you taken in this regard? Can you explain to us what the SIRS means when it refers to the "difficulty of control"? You mentioned that the controls were not obvious to carry out. Are there any avenues for effective platform controls? Thirdly, at the end of last month, I had asked a question after the Administrative Commission for the Settlement of the Labour Relations (CRT). The Commission concluded that the working relationship between a delivery company and Deliveroo could not be described as a self-employment relationship. The TRC even states that the terms proposed by the company Deliveroo correspond to an employed employment relationship, for various reasons put forward. The company claimed that incorrect information had been provided to the Commission, which therefore rendered an erroneous decision. That obviously makes me react. I have no doubt that you have read the TRC's decision. Will you take this into account in the context of feedback and in the analysis of ongoing delivery surveys? Did you contact the company Deliveroo to verify how the information given was, in her view, incorrect? Are the results of the sector surveys consistent with the TRC? As you don't have the results yet, I guess you won't be able to answer at this point. Are there false independents, as the Commission clearly points out? I come to my last set of questions. It concerns the Securex study on the uberisation of employment. In January, the Commission examined non-standard forms of employment and highlighted a grey area of employment which is neither part of the category of employed persons nor of the category of self-employed persons. They are a little in between and are, in the end, a new and logical form of employment. These include workers in the collaborative economy. Securex also notes a strong growth of formally self-employed workers but actually finds themselves in a situation of strong economic dependence. They only have one client or almost exclusively. There is a trend among the self-employed. In 2010, more than 75% of the 13% of revenues came from a single client. In 2015, this is the case for 29% of them. I don't know how much we are today, but we see that the rate has more than doubled in five years. Minister, how do you react to this heavy trend, which is a form of job deprivation? It seems to be settling in our country and could accelerate in the coming years. How do you analyze the phenomenon? Are you thinking about mechanisms to prevent it to protect these workers, which are becoming increasingly precarious?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u40	Mr President, Minister, on several occasions we have already had the opportunity to ask you about the status of the Deliveroo couriers in plenary session. A real societal debate is needed on these issues. You recognized him yourself. You have announced that investigations are under way. You called him back. I do not want to anticipate the answer, but we have already had an overview at the beginning of the committee. You have apparently not yet had the results of the investigations and the various inspections that have been requested. A first decision has been made. It is important because it gives the first elements of response in this debate on the status of couriers. Are they self-employed, complementary self-employed or employed? How should they be qualified? What kind of social security are they entitled to? What kind of protection and insurance do they receive in the event of an accident at work? Do they have social security coverage worthy of the twenty-first century? All these issues are of great concern to us. A first decision has been made. The Administrative Commission for the Settlement of the Labour Relations (CRT), which is part of the SPF Social Security, has indicated that the elements submitted to it "contrary to the qualification of self-employment", in view, inter alia, of the fact that the delivery person can be monitored at any time by GPS, of the ''low freedom of organization' left to the worker but also of the'specific instructions on how to take delivery' of the orders. The fact that the CRT considers that the working arrangements proposed by Deliveroo are "incompatible with a qualification of self-employment" is obviously a strong signal and an important victory, especially for the company's workers' couriers, who have been fighting for months through various social movements. More broadly, this decision is also important because it will encourage couriers who are now working as independents to apply to the Labour Court for their contract to be re-qualified as an employment contract. It affects all couriers, beyond Deliveroo. In our view, this debate affects all workers and future active workers via digital platforms. This platform economy is growing in our country. You have to be able to answer that. Minister, how do you react to this first clear decision of a public commission? Do you intend to see the company Deliveroo again in order to convince her to return to the negotiating table? To my knowledge, any discussion between her and her couriers has indeed been interrupted for several months. What is the status of the surveys you have commissioned from the Social and Labour Inspectorate? How long do you expect a decision from them? To bounce back on your proposal made at the beginning of this meeting, would you agree to forward the findings of these investigations to us? In this way, we could discuss it with you. This seems fundamental to me, given the concern expressed by many citizens and political groups about this new platform economy. As I say regularly, technological innovations can and must be positive for society. To that end, it was important that the jobs created should be sustainable and that working conditions should be worthy of the twenty-first century. That is why I am asking for a debate on the opinion of the TRC and the results of the investigations that you have requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u41	Minister, in February, Deliveroo decided unilaterally to pay out his couriers no longer through the SMART platform as an employed person, but per delivery. The many Deliverookuriers were placed before a fulfilled fact and saw their statute changed from employee to self-employed. Of course, that provoked a lot of protest from the couriers of Deliveroo, who would cut their wages, social protection and job security. Many couriers are now being played out against each other in order to carry out as many deliveries as possible and to be as flexible as possible because of a favourable ranking in the Deliveroo statistics. In reply to my question in plenary, you replied that the Labour Auditorate had launched an investigation to examine whether the Deliveroo couriers are now independent or should be regarded as employees. In the meantime, a request was also made by a courier from Deliveroo to the Administrative Commission for the settlement of the employment relationship. That body, a part of the Social Security Office, determined, at the request of the person concerned, whether the status of a Deliveroo courier should now be regarded as that of an independent or of an employee. On 23 March it delivered its Opinion. It is therefore important for this file and I read to you the conclusions of March 23: "The elements that have been submitted contradict the self-employment qualification currently proposed by Deliveroo. The examination of the file reveals sufficient evidence to conclude that, if carried out in accordance with the terms proposed by Deliveroo, the employment relationship in which Mr. R. would engage should be regarded as an employed employment relationship." I would point out that this committee points out in particular the following arguments: - The courier cannot plan his long-term work. - He can only book his work sessions a week in advance. From the moment he is connected to the Deliveroo platform, the courier has very little freedom to organize his time or work. He must follow the specific instructions. - The courier has no power to decide on the price of invoicing which is simply communicated to him in advance by Deliveroo, who is in charge of preparing the invoice itself. - The courier is constantly monitored by GPS technology. This permanent control is not compatible with independent activity. That conclusion, Mr Minister, is, of course, not binding, but is an important element in the problem. Do you intend to take that advice? When is the result of the survey of the work auditorate expected? Deliveroo now works with independent couriers. Does that mean that the tax advantages of the De Croo Act for recognised sharing platforms automatically apply to couriers if they were self-employed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u42	Minister, my colleagues have referred to the context. The least we can say is that the Administrative Committee on Rules of Procedure has just taken a categorical decision in the terms used. For the worker concerned, Mr X, the committee says that this is totally incompatible with the qualification of an independent employment relationship. She concluded equally categorically that Mr. X should be considered in an employment relationship. There's the social inspection, there's the investigation. The Ghent Labour Auditorate has yet to deliver its opinion. As Minister of Employment, you cannot be satisfied with a mere reference to future decisions of the Social Inspectorate or the Labour Auditorate. Indeed, the decision of the Administrative Committee on Rules of Procedure clearly requires political action and decisions. Self-employed persons who have been active since February are obviously at risk of tax and social adjustment. Some self-employed people in Deliveroo are therefore at risk of being penalized a posteriori! That would be totally problematic and unacceptable. There's Delioveroo, but there's the others too. No one can say today that there will be no impact on other players in this collaborative economy, for example Uber. Minister, I am puzzled about the recognition by the Government of Deliveroo as part of the collaborative platforms. I looked, but I didn't see anything like a citizen-to-citizen service. Deliveroo is an intermediary between a restaurant, thus a professional environment, and citizens. I would therefore like to understand how and on the basis of which criteria the government has been able to recognize Deliveroo in the context of citizen-to-citizen relations. In fact, restaurants are part of the professional community. This case also demonstrates that the legal arrangements made by the government in the collaborative economy are sorely lacking in clarity. They're not enough. As Minister of Employment, you should take an initiative with the National Labour Council to rework clearly the benchmarks for the collaborative economy. In the space of a few months, the sectors have managed to pass between the grids of legislation to draw what can be the most advantageous for them. They are out of frame and in a false independent situation. Let's call a cat a cat! In the absence of political action, they would be false independents endorsed by the government and thus by the State, which would be particularly unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my political position is clear. I repeat it a second time here. We must seize all the opportunities offered by the new economy. But we must do so without dismantling social systems. This must therefore be done without social degradation and with respect for the rules of our social legislation. That is an important starting point, which I hope everyone, the majority and the opposition, will be able to find in it. I don't need to remind you that there are coordinated investigations into Deliveroo and Uber. The recent protocol of 14 December 2017 between Justice, Police and Social Inspection Services provides the appropriate framework for all relevant inspection services and staff of Justice to address this global phenomenon in a coordinated manner, with different technical and legal components. They will make use of it. I have seen that investigations are under way and that the judicial services are developing initiatives to conduct the investigation in a coordinated and serious manner. However, I cannot inform you of the contents of the investigation. I have already said that I am not aware of the state of the investigation; I should not, moreover, be given that information. Since there was also a social conflict at Deliveroo in January 2018, after contacts with the trade unions and the employer I sent a social mediator on the road. The mediator organized conciliation meetings, which unfortunately have not been successful for the time being. Of course, the social mediator remains available to support and facilitate future social dialogue at Deliveroo. Due to the social conflict of January 2018 at Deliveroo and after contacting the unions and the employer to make things easier, I also, as already said, dispatched a social conciliator. Finally, I take note of the fact that Deliveroo has made its transition to independent status, that it will work at the same time as a recognized platform in the collaborative economy and that the workers' community is considering launching a courier service itself. The recognition of Deliveroo as a platform means that it may work with persons who, under the conditions laid down in tax law, may earn up to EUR 5 100 and are then taxed at 20% after deduction of 50% professional costs. This amount may not constitute a professional income for the persons concerned. Mrs Fonck, you know that the recognition of platforms is a responsibility of the Department of Finance. It is not linked to a proposal or a positive response from the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Employment. This does not imply automatic recognition by the Department of Finance, contrary to your suggestion, if I understand correctly. The draft law submitted to Parliament, which we have discussed extensively, increases it to EUR 6 000, but the company has also announced that it will be working with the self-employed. So the research started remains pertinent in that sense. Furthermore, the platform may be used to work with both professionals and non-professionals, but the organiser must organise himself in such a way that both can be separated from each other. The favourable tax regime can only be applied to those who are not professionals. As I have already said, the Minister of Finance is responsible for the recognition of platforms and for the tax interpretation of who is or is not a professional. This is the state of affairs today. The investigation will determine whether or not the self-employed with which Deliveroo works are false self-employed, after which a judge will decide. As I said earlier, we await the outcome of that investigation. As I have always been in dialogue with the social partners on these issues, I will continue to do so as far as possible and continue to involve them further. In addition, the decision of 23 February 2018 of the French-speaking Chamber of the Administrative Commission governing the Employment Relations of the Social Security Office concerning the request for advice by the ACV is very clear in the name of one of their members. On the basis of the sectoral criteria for the Transport sector, it is decided that employment is six out of eight criteria, but also on the basis of the nine criteria laid down in the law for this sector, among other things, it would have been decided. Decisions shall be binding on the institutions concerned and shall apply for a period of three years. They shall be open to appeal to the labour court within one month of notification. The decision has only legal implications for the individual case before it. It is an important fact that the Administrative Commission gives its opinion on the employment situation, even if the decision is limited to this one case. In the case of the substance of the system, it is therefore to wait and see what the results of the coordinated research will be. Once again, I understand the social debate and its political relevance, but I hope you will understand that, if an investigation is going on, a minister can only wait and see what the results of that research are and then take political action on the basis of those results. I did indeed meet Mrs Thea Rogers from Deliveroo during my visit to the World Economic Forum in Davos and I gave her my concerns about the work of Deliveroo in Belgium. As you know, the origins of both Deliveroo and Uber lie in an Anglo-Saxon country, where a totally different social security model applies and where a tip culture is involved. It goes without saying that it is not obvious to simply implement that model in a country like Belgium. I would remind you that we are still looking at our social security model with awe from several European and non-European countries. In addition, I have called on the social partners to analyse the wider impact of digitalisation on our labour market, both with regard to the jobs in the classical economy and with regard to the new jobs in the digital economy. This is important in the framework of Deliveroo and Uber, but as I have just said, there are many other companies that are active, and that is why I have asked the social partners to look into this. The interim report of the NAR of 4 October 2017 has already become a major work. We have not yet received the final recommendations. We need to develop a strategy to ensure that digitalisation leads to additional, qualitative jobs. Where there would be job losses, we need to give employees maximum guidance so that they can develop the skills to find a new job. In this sense, I will therefore also test the figures from the recent study by Securex against the official figures relating to atypical work and continue to monitor them. I also refer to the Joint Declaration of the Group of Ten of 7 March 2018 on digitisation recognised as a milestone in the work launched under the last IPA. Roughly outlined, the social partners propose to work on four major axes, each containing a number of building blocks. First of all, develop every talent, give it opportunities and keep it workable by focusing in education and training on forward-looking skills that offer prospects; by mobilising, reorienting and re-engaging jobseekers; by developing a real learning culture that better equips us for change and transition. Secondly, promote recruitment, labour mobility, transition, re-employment and inclusiveness through entry and transition pathways and experiments. Thirdly, to steer and anticipate change, to cooperate better, and to find appropriate and innovative solutions through forward-looking social dialogue. The partners rightly state that all this requires a global, coherent, complementary and harmonious approach. The success of this project of change will therefore depend on the initiative and the positive contribution of all actors at the different levels of competence and consultation. In this context, existing levers can also be used to proactively approach technological developments at sectoral and enterprise level. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a state of affairs, but also the way I am looking at things at the moment. You stress the importance of the two files, Deliveroo and Uber. I agree with you because, in a collaborative economy, it is possible to generalize certain types of work with enormous consequences. Like you, I am convinced that it is not enough to ask for very clear opinions from the inspection and the auditors, but that we must broaden the debate with the social partners and the Group of Ten. Our economy is now digitalized. It is necessary to put all the partners around the table to have a global vision, to ensure the future of our social security and to mention the necessary flexibilities or already in place to stimulate the collaborative and digital economy. That's my goal. I have already taken very concrete action in this direction, as I have already pointed out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer, which clearly shows that this dossier is very close to your heart and that you take our concerns very seriously and also share them. From Parliament, we will, of course, continue to follow up the dossier, if necessary together with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u45	Mr Minister, we can join a series of concerns, particularly when you say that this should not lead to the dismantling of the social framework and that it should lead to better jobs. I hear your concerns, but I'm surprised at your attitude, which I'm going to call "attentist." You're saying we can't do anything right now and we have to wait until the investigations are over. Earlier, you said this should happen at the end of June. At the end of June, we will arrive at the holidays; then, the main ministers will be in the communal election campaign and then, after that, we will be at the end of the legislature. In the meantime, workers are in this status with precarisation, underprotection and risk compared to their daily lives. I don't understand that attentist attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u46	Minister, I understand that you are waiting for the results of the analyses to objectiveize this debate, even if – as we see with the administrative decision that has been taken – the status of the Deliveroo couriers is a real problem. This is not acceptable in Belgium in the 21st century! There is a real problem and it needs to be solved. I think you have leverage as Minister of Economy. You did indeed do things during the legitimate protest movements of the couriers. You've arranged a mediation. Unfortunately, that was not enough. These negotiations have resulted in a failure. Today, workers, most of whom are young, who are taking their first steps in the world of employment, find themselves in completely precarious conditions. That's not right! In my opinion, you have tools in hand, Minister! I am sure that we will be working on this – and we will be working on it – regardless of the time of year. I, too, believe that there is a tendency on this issue and that you, your administration and your firm could do more. You're obviously not alone. This is a fundamental subject because the Deliveroos tomorrow will multiply in a whole series of sectors. The whole society will be affected. I reiterate my request to have this debate in the Committee on Social Affairs or the Economy as soon as you have the results of the inspections. In addition, this morning, in the Committee on the Economy, several texts that have been put on the agenda will lead us to hold hearings on the collaborative economy of sharing and the status of workers. This Parliament, we, have to deal with this issue. This is probably one of the major economic stakes of this century. Let us be much more proactive, Minister, and have these debates! Our fellow citizens and the workers of this country are waiting for him. As soon as you have this information, let's hold a new debate, another debate! Don't wait, please! Don't be attentist on this very important issue for us, as well as for yours, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u47	Mr President, Minister, we are following this issue very closely. Each time you tell us: "Yes, it is true, we have to ask ourselves questions on the substance. It seems clear to me that they are not independents." But at the same time, you say you can't do anything about it. That is not right, Minister! As Minister of Labour, it is still up to you to guarantee social protection in the country, and to take the initiative. I don't know what you talked about in Davos. I do not know if Mrs May laughed when you told her about "our traditions", which have nothing to do with a contradiction between Anglo-Saxon traditions and those of the European continent. It is a question of distinction between left and right. A question of power relations that was more vigorous on the continent, which has torn away genuine working conditions worthy of workers, which is a little less so in Britain. But has Mrs May made it clear to you that she does not care completely about our laws and directives, or has she been a diplomat enough to tell you that she will still continue to work in the same direction? We have to go, Minister! You have more and more clear, tangible political elements that make it very clear that they are not self-employed. It's not clear! If you let this happen, the same will happen in many other sectors, because, in the end, no more work will be paid. So I think a little bit more political courage is needed, Minister. The communal elections are still far away and they will win in the last five or six weeks – I see you're comfortable in Antwerp for now! So let's keep moving federal work forward! With good social progress at the federal level, there is still a way in Belgium to push back the most radical right, with its anti-social measures. We must have political courage, Minister. And we can give you some if you want!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u48	Mr President, Minister, you said that social legislation must be respected. All that would be missing! But as Minister of Employment, I find that you cannot be content to wait for the decisions of the Social Inspectorate, the Labour Auditorate, etc. I'll be honest. I am afraid that the lack of sufficient guidance on the legislative choices of the government has, in the end, facilitated attempts to circumvent social legislation. It seems to me that, as Minister of Employment, you have to put the work back on the job. It is necessary to look at legislation once again, but beyond that, urgent work needs to be done with the social partners and with the National Labour Council. I heard you're in contact with the National Labour Council, which is why I mentioned it. I have one last request and it seems to me that the urgency is, on this subject, real. As far as workers who have been forced to become self-employed since February are concerned, the least we can say is that the information available to them is largely insufficient. I'm afraid they're the big pigeons in this story and in September or 2019 they're subject to social and tax regularization. You know that because the CSC pulled the alarm bell. What impresses me on this point is that the convention that the Deliveroo couriers must sign explicitly states that Deliveroo is not liable if tax and social adjustments take place a posteriori. Who will be blurred in this story? The couriers involved. True information must therefore be provided to them in an urgent and objective manner. Otherwise, as Minister for Employment, you will be held responsible for the lack of information that they should have had at their disposal and, consequently, for the impact on social and fiscal regulation. It seems to me that you should be able to do this yourself, either with the Employment FPS or with the help of the unions. I repeat that there is a real problem on which you must be able to intervene quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u49	Mr. Minister, a sociological study conducted at the VUB by PhD student Laura Van den Borre has shown that cleaning staff are twice as likely to die of lung disease as executives and servants. In her studies she reveals that cleaners die more often from certain diseases than servants and executives. She left the entire working Belgian population in 1991 with an age of between 30 and 60. Until 2011, she looked at who died and what the cause of death was. In total, she analysed 200 000 deaths in men and 58 000 in women. This shows that during that period there was 45% more mortality among male cleaners than among servants and executives. In the case of cleaning women, the risk of death is increased by 16%. Big bad guys are obviously the lung diseases. Even after the effects of smoking had been filtered out, the differences remained large. The exact cause has not been investigated by Van den Borre, but international research has already shown that there is an effect on the lungs of chemical polishes and biological substances such as fungi and dust, she says. Now, for the first time, a clear link has been established between cleaning and mortality. Van den Borre believes that there should be more research into breathing problems in the cleaning industry and calls for additional prevention and training. Mr Minister, will you ask for additional research into the dangers for cleaning staff when using certain cleaning products? The study calls for additional prevention and training on the dangers of chemical cleaning products for cleaning workers. Are you prepared to respond to this and to organise a consultation with the social partners? Will you have the cleaning products containing substances that have been proven to have a negative impact on the functioning of our lungs listed? Are you prepared to make recommendations to the cleaning industry and prohibit the use of some cleaning products when it has been proven that they have a very negative impact on our health?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u50	Mr Minister, the Department of Sociology of the VUB revealed that cleaners have been killed 45% more often by certain lung diseases than servants and executives. As a result, I already asked your colleague from Health, Mrs De Block. She felt that the data should be handled with caution, since it was not really a question of quality research and that employees should be compared with different statutes. Personally, I find the figures remarkable enough to justify additional research. For that, Mrs. De Block referred me to you. Since my first question, which was submitted quite a long time ago, the results of a more extensive study have been announced. The University of Bergen in Norway followed more than 6,000 cleaners for twenty years. Once again, the results prove to be particularly worrying. Forty percent more chance of asthma was found in the cleaners. Those who use intensive sprayers with cleaning agent do an attack on their lungs, the researchers report. Those who often use these spray pumps over a period of twenty years will see their lungs deteriorate as quickly as someone who smokes twenty cigarettes every day for twenty years. First of all, have you taken note of that investigation? I suppose that's the case. Secondly, are you planning to launch additional research yourself? Thirdly, are you taking measures to protect workers? Which one? Fourthly, should consideration be given to the withdrawal of products from the market? In short, do you take the problem to heart and have additional research carried out, so that we are sure that these workers can continue to do their work in full health? I am curious to hear your approach to those figures which I regard as very worrying.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u51	Health risks in the cleaning sector have already been widely examined in recent years, both at European and international level. This resulted in a number of reports on working methods and risk management at cleaning companies. This shows, among other things, that, firstly, the cleaning industry is very diverse and consists of a number of sub-sectors, in which very different products are used. Think of office cleaning and industrial cleaning. Secondly, exposure to dangerous products is one of the many risks in this sector. The ergonomic risks must also be borne in mind. Thirdly, exposure to cleaning agents in cleaning staff can lead to skin problems, respiratory allergy and respiratory irritation. Fourthly, the nebulisering of these substances is a risk-enhancing way of using them, because it creates aerosols that can be inhaled. The risks of nebulisering are increased by an incorrect procedure, for example in small, poorly ventilated spaces. In 2015, the Welzijn inspection conducted a campaign in the cleaning sector, with the focus on ergonomics. Fedris' data showed that there are more occupational diseases associated with ergonomic problems in this sector than with respiratory diseases. Of course, action was taken if an infringement of the use of dangerous substances was detected during an inspection visit. The Codex on well-being at work provides that the employer, together with his prevention advisor, must evaluate the risks associated with working with dangerous substances, for example on the basis of information on the label and in the safety data sheet of each product used by the workers. On the basis of this evaluation, the employer may take the necessary preventive measures. In any case, the employer is obliged to replace a dangerous product with a non-hazardous or less dangerous product if technically possible. If this is not possible, the employer must minimise the risks, for example through collective or individual means of protection. In addition, workers also need to be informed about the risks of working with dangerous substances and to be trained, for example on how they can safely use products. In addition to cleaning products, the researcher also cites other possible causes of lung diseases, such as dust and fungi. Here too, exposure can be reduced, for example by vacuum cleaners with low dust exhaust air or by suitable personal protective equipment. To help employers with risk analysis, various tools are available free of charge on the FPS Employment website, such as risk tracking manuals, in the cleaning sector and in the home help sector. In addition, for the cleaning sector, the free Online Interactive Risk Assessment is also available which addresses, among other things, the aspect of the hazardous substances. If a cleaning product presents specific health risks, this should in any case also be published by the supplier under the European CLP and REACH regulations. The labelling of products and safety data sheets should provide information on the hazards of a product, as well as on safety recommendations in its use and on measures to protect against exposure, first aid and so on. The possible prohibition of certain products and restrictions on the use of such products are also regulated at European level by the REACH Regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u52	The concern, Minister, is that these are not just ergonomic problems, we are talking about increased mortality. The study is interesting given the number of people followed. It actually shows an increase in mortality. This is an important element in the debate about career ends. We regularly intervene on the fact that people die at different ages according to the profession practiced. We're here in this case. People who have a job in cleaning die earlier. For the same pension age, these people will have much less years to live. This is a situation that needs to be very careful. It would be good for the public service to conduct a monitoring to find out exactly in which area one dies earlier and for what reasons. The advance of the researchers is great. I also hope that the authorities will make progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u53	Minister, I agree with my colleague. You mention some of the issues that are currently regulated. You refer to employers, suppliers, and to the fact that a number of issues are dealt with at European level. That's all right. However, it is now apparent that, despite all those things that exist at the moment, there is an increased mortality. I believe that this can be investigated. We must at least look at which sectors the mortality is really higher and in which it is not. You yourself started by saying that this is a very diverse sector. I think it will be worthwhile looking at which sectors there is an increase in mortality. This will vary from sector to sector. For example, I would like to draw your attention explicitly to the home aid sector. You yourself refer to certain vacuum cleaner systems which would reduce certain risks. You know as well as I do that a home helper works with the vacuum cleaner that's in the house. I have never asked a service cheque company if I would please buy a new vacuum cleaner because the cleaning lady has to work with that. Now that it is clear that there is an increased mortality despite all the good measures that have indeed been taken, it is necessary to consider at least which of the various sectors are the most at risk, which results and what we can do about it. Again, there are certainly sectors where the risks are considerably greater than in other sectors. I think this needs to be sorted out to the very bottom.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u54	Mr Fortis, on 24 October last, you replied to a question on the possible introduction of wages above a certain amount at BNP Paribas Fortis, and I quote: 'It can be concluded that, from the labour law point of view, there is a problem of compliance with the wage protection law in the current dragonflying with certain advantages in the supply of BNP Paribas Fortis. However, this is not a new problem. These practices have been applied and tolerated for many years by many companies outside of BNP Paribas Fortis. If, in the present case, we explicitly consider that the BNP Paribas Fortis system is, in certain respects, illegal under employment law, this position will, of course, have to be taken further consistently in relation to any company in Belgium which uses a similar system of pay. As I am preparing an exercise on harmonizing the concept of pay, I would like to await the consultation with my colleague De Block on this matter. In addition, we would like to consider whether some of the concepts of pay could not be brought into line with each other. We are currently looking at this exercise with the experts of the administration. There would be a meeting tomorrow on this issue." I would have liked to have received an answer from the Minister to the following questions. Firstly, how will certain tolerated, but from a legal point of view, illegal benefits, whether in kind or not, be avoided in the future? Secondly, have you already consulted the Minister for Social Affairs and Health on harmonizing the concept of pay? If so, what is the outcome of this consultation? Thirdly, where do you stand with your exercise in harmonising the concept of pay? Fourthly, have you, together with the experts in the administration, found more support on a number of terms of pay?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u55	Mr President, you are right. In the coalition agreement, the following was written about the harmonization of the concept of pay, and I quote: 'The social, tax and labour law concept is streamlined as much as possible without increasing overall tax and parafiscal pressure'. In view of this wording in the government agreement, which is fairly general, it is necessary to first look at budget neutrality for the government. In order to ensure the feasibility of this project, it would also seem appropriate to take a first look at the harmonisation of labour and social security law. Those two branches are close to each other in legal practice and provide the most questions. Within companies, cafeteria plans are gaining in importance and the concept of pay is becoming the subject of analysis each time. A change in legislation can create legal uncertainty for employers and employees, which must of course be avoided at all times. The systems that are already in place today mainly apply budget neutrality on the part of the employee and the employer, rather than on the part of the public authorities. Think of the salary sacrifices, where wages for a company car are exchanged. On a wage, employers and employees pay social charges. On a company car, as you know, only the employer pays a CO2 tax. In labour law, there are different definitions of the concept of pay, but each time in function of the purpose. Labour law has a micro-economic or individual approach, while social security and taxation have a macroeconomic approach. However, if a remuneration is considered to be incorrect from a labour law point of view, it is considered to be correct by the RSZ and the tax authorities. It is therefore not easy for the inspection services to produce unambiguous analyses of this. It is a discussion and, at the same time, a practice of remuneration, which has already started since the 1980s. Business cars were then given for the first time to managers and trade representatives. The question that has always been raised over the years is how much pressure is placed on the basis of which social security contributions are paid. The lower the basic amount, the lower the social security contributions. This runs counter to the basic principle of solidarity in our social security. Of course there is a tension between, on the one hand, legal provisions of labour law and, on the other hand, practices that have arisen over the years, such as giving meal cheques in a remuneration package. The exercise on the harmonization of the concept of pay must therefore be made thorough and must be carried out across different services. While only the two policy cells concerned were consulted before March 2018, we also wanted to invite all relevant administrations and inspection services to the exercise. This consultation took place on 16 March 2018, so not so long ago. It was decided at this meeting that the President of the Board of Auditors would be asked how to deal with such remunerations. This letter is based on the Executive Board's supervision of the Social Laws, as this service is most exposed to the tension between daily wage practices and their verification under the Pay Protection Act. The principle of the separation of powers must also be respected. Of course, sending the letter does not prevent the inspection services from continuing their work within the standards and rules of current legislation. Here too steps have been taken, perhaps not large enough or not fast enough, but we are working on this. Hopefully this will lead to results which I will be happy to tell you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u57	Minister, as you know, the practice of teleworking is increasingly being adopted by companies through collective labour agreements. Telework is an asset for both the employee and the employer. It makes it possible to combine family life and work better, while at the same time favouring a lower cost in terms of mobility for staff. In addition, it improves employee productivity and motivation for business. There are two categories of telework. Firstly, the one considered structural, which has been the subject of a legal collective labour agreement since 2005. Then, the one that is considered casual, more informal. Mr. Minister, we know that you have already made many advances in the framework of telework, in particular by allowing companies to increase their digital means and by developing the law on work that is feasible and manageable. Can you give us a list of the main branches of activity that use telework? Is there a strong sectoral diversification of this practice? How many people are affected by this method, whether it is occasional or structural? What is their regional distribution? Finally, in general, with your public health colleague, do you see a correlation between the increase in telework and a decrease in burn-out cases? In other words, does telework help to alleviate problems related to occupational diseases, including burn-out?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u58	Mr President, Minister, today 17% of workers are already doing telework or homework. A survey of 2 000 Belgians working in Belgium shows that about one in three workers do not yet do so today, but they would like to do so. However, they do not receive permission from their employer. However, telework or homework offers many advantages. It is good in the context of the balance between family and work, because one saves on the transfer time. For employers, it means saving office space. It is also better for mobility. Today all teleworkers together avoid 9 million kilometres or 7% of all commuting. An extension of that would be even better. Telework or homework has a positive effect not only on the time spent on travel, but also on mobility and congestion. The self-employed organisation UNIZO and the VBO are both in favour of telework and encourage employers to offer this possibility as far as possible. However, it appears that many employers are not yet open to this. They often fear that the quality of work and the return of telework will deteriorate, often because they do not know it and because it is not common. Mr Minister, are there any concrete initiatives on teleworking that could encourage employers to make telework even more possible than today? If so, which one? How do you wish to further support them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the telework which is carried out on a regular basis is mainly regulated by collective agreement No. 85 on telework concluded in the National Labour Council on 9 November 2005. In addition, the law of 5 March 2017 on workable and manoeuvrable work created a legal framework for occasional telework. This means that today there is a regulatory framework for both regular and occasional teleworking. You can find information about these regulations on the website. It should be borne in mind that telework is always voluntary, both for the employee and for the employer. The employer and the employee may opt for telework by mutual agreement, taking into account working conditions and organisation of work. However, no one can be obliged to do so. You know that the recent homework alarm has been proposed that workers and employers should allow large-scale use of homework in winter weather to reduce traffic congestion. In this context, I have called on employers and employees to make the necessary arrangements for occasional telework wherever possible in advance. The data available to us come from the survey on the labour force of the General Directorate of Statistics - Statistics Belgium of the FPS Economy and relate to homework. These data should be interpreted with caution, since the concept of homework does not coincide with the legal concept of teleworking. For example, teachers who declare that they would work at home to improve exams or prepare their lessons do not in fact telework. The sectors where homework is most common, at least one day per month, are education, where 53.4% of employees worked at home at least one day per month during the reference month, the information and communication sector with 37.1%, extraterritorial organisations and bodies, financial activities and insurance, the professions and scientific and technical activities. There are major sectoral differences, because only 4% of employees in the sector of providing accommodation and meals worked at least one day from home. In the transport and storage sector, the figure is 5%, in the construction sector it is 6% and in the human health and social services sector it is 7.2%. In 2016, 625 761 employees worked at home for at least one day during the reference month. These were 71 033 employees in Brussels, 403 731 employees in Flanders and 150 997 employees in Wallonia. Burn-out has its origins in various factors. It is impossible to establish a direct link between the increase in telework and its impact on burn-out. Telework can indeed help to some extent in the prevention of burn-out, but it is not a miracle solution either. It has the unmistakable advantage of allowing better coordination between working life and private life and reducing fatigue caused by movements. As far as the organization of work is concerned, the worker is given greater autonomy and can usually concentrate better. However, teleworking must not be abused. Two days a week appears to be a maximum to prevent other risk derivatives. We must not underestimate the isolation of a teleworker. The prevention of burn-out is done through the relationships at work. It is generally recognised that solidarity between fellow Members and more generally the exchange among fellow Members of Parliament, room for discussion but also the accessibility of the hierarchy are important factors in order not to lose out on professional fatigue. On 1 February 2017, the employee's ability to claim occasional telework was introduced through the law on workable and manoeuvrable work. It is too early to carry out an evaluation of this system already. The legal framework also provides answers to a number of questions. There is, after all, the right for the employee to ask for work at home, whereby the employer can always refuse, provided that his reasons are given. That is Article 26 of the Law on workable and manoeuvrable work. In addition, by means of a collective agreement or working regulations, the employer may develop a framework for occasional telework, in which he indicates which functions are eligible for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u60	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. I fully agree with your views on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic865x.u61	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply.
