ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues. I see a large number of different groups. Everyone is around, despite the very short timeframe in which this meeting was convened. Thank you very much for coming here in this short space of time. It wasn't obvious, that's for sure. This underlines the importance of Parliament in this matter and its dynamics, as can be seen at the moment. I also note that the government took note of the Commissioner-General's report this morning and that it also made a number of conclusions. She's already communicated to the press. The press then asks, of course, whether the report can also be seen. However, Parliament should be informed first, or at least at the same time. It cannot be that Parliament is lagging behind the information that would be available from the press. That is why I felt it was important for a meeting to be held this afternoon, so that the report would not only be presented but would also be personally explained by the author, the Commissioner-General. It can also be supplemented by the conclusions drawn by the government. I would like to thank the stakeholders, who are also here in the very short term. I would also like to thank the Commissioner-General, the Prime Minister and Minister Jambon for their presence. There is a question first from Mr Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u2	Mr President, without going into the substance of the matter, I would like to ask you a question. It appears that appendices are being announced. I'd like to know where we are. The annexes are essential for analysing the report before us, especially if it refers to the annexes. On the other hand, I seem to go back to the bottom, but I am careful to stay in the process. It is a question of the WhatsApp exchanges provided by Mr. Debeuf to CGRA, which relate the testimonies or exchanges between CGRA and the persons concerned. Are these WhatsApp exchanges, which are obviously anonymized so as not to insecure the people concerned, included in the appendices? We need, materially and with scientific precision, to verify the findings of the CGRA. You obviously understand our request, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u3	I share your concern, Mr Laaouej. An hour ago, when I read the report, I myself found that there were four annexes that were not sent along. I have heard that there are indeed a number of names and personal data in it, so that they cannot be released just like that. The Prime Minister will undoubtedly be able to explain this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u4	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you and the committee for your availability, so that we can meet soon after we get to know this report. The government wanted, as it had committed itself to, to be able to share information on the subject with Parliament very quickly and transparently. As far as the annexes are concerned, you are right, there are some identifications in the annexes. This morning, in the small Council of Ministers, we understood that the desire was to anonymize the annexes which would contain elements of identity. For this reason, we have without delay communicated the report. The government is prepared to also make the annexes available, provided that the Office of the Commissioner-General verifies that it is possible to make sensitive data anonymous, as you yourself have rightly mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u5	Mr President, will we have the annexes this afternoon? That is at stake. If we want to judge whether or not - I do not have a priori at this stage - the conclusions of the CGRA report, we need the annexes, otherwise we would discuss them on an incomplete basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u6	Mr Laaouej, I have just been informed that two annexes are already available at the committee secretariat without any mention of personal data. They will soon be distributed by electronic mail, extranet and e-mail. So you will have the first two, and the other will undoubtedly follow. I hope as soon as possible. I assume this afternoon. I think it's possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u7	Mr President, of course, I think you are doing the most, but the most important thing is that we need scientific precision. It's about testimony. We need to quickly exchange on WhatsApp between the CGRA and the Sudanese. It's fundamental! This is about the credibility of the testimony. Again, I don't want to go back to the bottom, but WhatsApp exchanges are crucial from this point of view. We need them in extenso.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u8	Mr Laaouej, I share your concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to see that not everyone has opted for homework today and that people are here, for which we thank you. As far as the report is concerned, which has been so eagerly awaited, we considered it important to play briefly on the ball and exchange information with Parliament. I would remind you that on 22 December 2017, I was instructed by the Government to ask the Commissioner-General of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless to investigate the press release that Sudanese people who had been returned from our country to Sudan might have been tortured or mistreated. The Commissioner-General has accepted the assignment. We also agreed at that time that he would speed things up, without agreeing on a strict timing. We did not agree to an end date, but we asked that the investigation should be carried out as quickly as possible. Last night I was informed by the Commissioner-General of the report, which you have received in the meantime. After going through the report with the Commissioner-General, I passed the report on to the Prime Minister. We discussed it in the nuclear cabinet this morning. Once again, there was an explanation from the Commissioner-General to the nuclear cabinet. That is the method that has been followed so far. Immediately after the meeting of the nuclear cabinet, we agreed with the Committee on the Interior to inform you of the report as soon as possible. It was most appropriate for us that the perpetrator of the report himself should give the explanation. I would therefore very much like to pass on the floor to the Commissioner-General, Mr Van den Bulck. Then the Prime Minister will share with you all the results of this morning's discussion and the government's position on the report and its conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, Mr Vice Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly explain two things: firstly, the way in which we conducted the investigation and, secondly, the decisions. I shall confine myself to the main points, otherwise I shall be speaking for a very long time. When I was asked on 22 December to carry out this task, I immediately asked myself which points were to be examined. Grosso mode I have aligned my assignment around three questions. Firstly, what happened for the ten persons who have returned or removed? Secondly, is the organisation of an identification mission, in cooperation with the authorities of Sudan, problematic? Thirdly, in accordance with Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, has the investigation carried out properly for those persons who had not applied for asylum respect the principle in force? We have tried to examine these three questions as closely as possible within a short time. As far as the facts of return are concerned, we have tried to appeal to a maximum number of people who have been able to provide more information on what has happened. These were primarily persons involved in the study by the Tahrir Institute, in particular Koert Debeuf himself, but also other persons. Secondly, we have also tried to contact persons who have been returned. We have done so in various ways, but also through Koert Debeuf, who has given it his cooperation. We have also tried to obtain information from experts, international organisations, embassies and organisations on the ground about the risk of abuse on return, but also in particular for those who had been removed and returned. On the second point, the organisation of the identification mission, we have again tried to obtain maximum information from organizations, the Tahrir Institute, but certainly also from the Foreign Affairs Office, which was very closely involved in the organisation of that mission. We have also collected general information on identification and on risk derivatives on return through many different experts in that field. Thirdly, with regard to how the investigation took place, we requested access to the files of the Foreign Affairs Office for the 10 persons concerned. In these cases, we have examined carefully the way in which these people have been employed. We have examined this in the light of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, but also of Belgian jurisdictions, such as the Council of Foreign Ministers, the Council of State, the Court of Cassation, etc. In addition, we have conducted a very general investigation into the risk of returning to Sudan in general, continuing with existing reports on this issue, in other countries, international organisations, as well as expert organisations. We have contacted them in order to obtain a maximum of information on the risk of return, both the risk of persecution, the real risk in accordance with subsidiary protection status for persons in general upon return, and the risk that might arise from the organisation of removal in itself. That is in short the method we have followed to try to obtain a maximum of information in a short period of time. It is true that we have obtained a great deal of information. Not all information is included in the report or in the annexes. What annexes have we attached? Firstly, the Tahrir Institute's report, in an updated version, on 16 January, because a number of elements have been added. Secondly, a note containing a summary of the findings or the results of a query sent through the EMN (European Migration Network) to bodies in all the countries of the European Union and also Norway and other associated countries. Thirdly, a brief note listing the main case law of the European Court of Human Rights. Finally, a more detailed note on the investigation into the risk of return by removal of persons. These include complaints that have been made in the past on the return of persons from various countries, European and non-European. It also contains a number of assessments, including those of Waging Peace in Great Britain, but also case law of the European Court of Human Rights. So far, the prior information. I come to the main findings and decisions resulting from the research we have conducted with experts at the Commission. Firstly, as you can see in the report on pages 16 and 17, I would like to stress that we have been able to count on the maximum and very good cooperation of many people, organisations, bodies and embassies. In particular, we have also received very good cooperation from Koert Debeuf of the Tahrir Institute and from the Foreign Affairs Office, who have provided maximum transparency in the information available to them in relation to this problem. That is a first important observation for us. Secondly, with regard to the organisation of the identification and organisation of the identification mission, our finding and our decision that the organisation of identification or the organisation of an identification mission in itself is not necessarily problematic, provided that this is done with respect for a number of important conditions. The most important point is that we have to take this into account, and this is also an important point in the area of the right of asylum, that persons are subject to checks by authorities and, in particular, security services on return. This certainly applies to Sudan. It is well known that on arrival in Sudan, for persons who are not in possession of the required travel documents, there is a double check on persons arriving with a laissez-passer on removal but also in other circumstances: a check on the migration services but also a check on the security services. So that's what happens on return anyway. In our view, this is a reason to say that we must be extremely careful when sending people back to Sudan. It means checking very carefully whether there is a need for protection for those persons when they return. After all, who risks trouble? These are mainly persons with a certain profile, mainly..... not to say essentially..... persons in need of protection. There are quite a few for Sudan. The conclusion for us is not that the organisation of identification or an identification mission is problematic in itself, but that it is important that there is a thorough preliminary examination of whether there is a need for protection. In concrete terms, this means, firstly, that there must be no offer of identification for persons in need of protection. This means that we must first examine whether there is a need for protection before someone is offered for identification. Secondly, in order to avoid possible problems with threats and so on, persons from Belgian authorities or the government must be present at the identification and interview of an identification mission. There must also be an interpreter who understands what a person tells there. These are, in a few words, the most important findings and decisions in the organisation of an identification mission. Secondly, with regard to the facts, possible abuse or inhuman treatment that would have taken place during the return/removal of ten persons in autumn 2017, the Tahrir Institute's note provides some evidence of poor treatment, of abuse. We have made a number of observations for these people, a number of observations. The main findings are set out in the note. There are others, but the most important ones are reflected in them. I'll give them a line. Firstly, for the three persons mentioned in the note as direct witnesses, with whom the Tahrir Institute has had direct contact and who have testified through WhatsApp conversations, we have found that they have since started an integration project at the IOM or in cooperation with the IOM. They started a project in Khartoum or in another place in Sudan. They are there and make it clear that they are not concerned or that they are more concerned. They have actively started a project with the International Organization for Migration (IOM). That is a first observation. Secondly, in part, we have also identified the same witnesses who are to be regarded as the most important witnesses, which seriously cast doubt on the truthfulness of the statements made by the witnesses. I'm picking out one element here. That's the person who made the most comprehensive statement about bad treatment. The person concerned claims to have been detained at the border for two days at other times and was struck for three hours by persons of the security services in at least one day's time. For that person we have established, confirmed by the IOM, that he had arrived shortly after midnight and that on the same day he was at the IOM to apply for support. We've also been in touch with that person himself. We tried to talk to that person about that. He hasn't given us any more details about the exact events. We also tried to confront him, but before we could, he interrupted the conversation. That's all we could get and we haven't had any more contact. In this way, we have established many facts for the most important testimonies which make us very much doubt the truthfulness of those testimonies with regard to very important points from their testimonies, thus questioning the truthfulness of the testimonies in general. We have also made it quite clear that we have not been able to establish with absolute certainty that the facts of abuse and inhuman treatment have taken place effectively, but in the same way we have not been able to establish with certainty that the facts have not taken place. On very important points, however, we have made observations which raise very serious doubts about the truthfulness of the statements. That is a second important observation. A third set of findings relates to the manner in which the investigation was carried out by the Foreign Office in respect of the non-refoulement principle in accordance with Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. I did not formulate this in the decisions in this way, but you also find in the report that we have found that the Foreign Affairs Office is doing a great deal in relation to the individuals, in the sense that they are effectively given the opportunity to appeal to a lawyer. Many have also effectively appealed to a lawyer. They are effectively given the opportunity to appeal against decisions and to notify, through a hearing right, possible risk of return to the Foreign Affairs Office. The DVZ has developed special questionnaires to conduct that investigation and has also made a great deal of efforts to point out to individuals that they can apply for asylum. The Foreign Affairs Office is therefore making a great deal of effort and I believe that they have made additional efforts in relation to the persons from Sudan. I am referring both to the right of hearing and to the question of whether there was a risk of a return to the country of origin, and to inciting asylum seekers to apply for asylum, who claim that they are at risk on return. In this respect, we have noted that the Department of Foreign Affairs is effectively making a lot of efforts. In the light of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, the Council for Foreign Affairs and the Court of Cassation, the references of which are contained in the note or annexes, we believe, however, that the reasoning developed, namely that if someone claims to be at risk of return, one responds to the fact that the person has to submit an application for asylum and that the fact that the application for asylum is not submitted can be regarded as a sign that there is no real risk in accordance with Article 3 of the ECHR. In order to speak of an effective investigation into the application of Article 3 of the ECHR, we believe that more needs to be done. We need a more effective investigation, especially for people from a country which is extremely problematic in terms of human rights such as Sudan. The fact that more needs to be done, by which we mean that more questions need to be heard more in terms of credibility. In other words, it is necessary to examine whether the statement made is also true, credible and whether the facts cited can be regarded as a real risk in accordance with Article 3 of the ECHR. Moreover, the result of that examination must be reflected in a decision served on the person concerned in such a way that he can appeal it if he does not agree with that assessment. Now we find that an assessment is being made with a reasoning which we do not consider sufficient. In addition, the assessment shall be carried out by means of an internal note the result of which shall not be communicated to the person concerned or, in any event, not in the form of a decision. We therefore believe that an effective substantive investigation is being carried out, more effectively than has been the case so far, in order to avoid a risk of breach of Article 3 of the ECHR. In doing so, I did not say that Article 3 ECHR was violated for the ten persons who were sent back. We haven't been able to establish that. We ourselves have not been able to examine the profiles or the situations of those persons on the substance. That was not to that extent in the file either. For me, these are the most important findings on the three points which are the subject of research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the Commissioner for the work that has been done. Indeed, as everyone is doing well, the issue of asylum and migration is a complex issue that requires nuance and responsibility. For the past three years, we have chosen to pursue a firm and humane policy. It is a balance that we need to analyse, to assess at all times in order to fully assume our responsibilities as executive authority. As has been pointed out, Jan Jambon and I received only a few hours ago, specifically last night, the report which was submitted this morning to the Kern and which was presented to you orally. We have wished to share it with Parliament within a few hours of receiving it and, as has been said, we will also make available to it all the elements, including the annexes that form the basis of the report that has been drawn up. You also know that we wanted this report to be completely independent. That is why we considered this independent body, the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CGRA), to be the most appropriate body since the 1980 Act formally guarantees the independence of the body headed by Commissioner Dirk Van den Bulck. Having said that, my speech will consist of two parts. In the first, I will point out four elements of the report. In the second part, I will draw, on behalf of the Government, on the basis of the deliberations we have had this morning, a number of political lessons and conclusions that I wish to share with Parliament. A first important point, which is clarified in the report and in the presentation, concerns the identification mission. We have had a lot of interesting debates on this in Parliament and outside Parliament. I note that the analysis in the report states that the identification missions are not necessarily problematic, but that precautions are obviously necessary and necessary. It is important to exercise caution and caution in such identification missions. Several points have already been mentioned in this connection, and I will return to them. I recall that with regard to the identification mission in connection with the Sudan, the Belgian intelligence services had been consulted. We share the idea that screening is necessary. Other important points were highlighted – and they had already been taken up in parliamentary debates by the majority or by the opposition – such as the need to have good information to the persons concerned or the need to have an interpreter and a representative of the Office of Foreigners systematically during interviews in connection with these identification missions. This is an important first point in view of the debates we have had on this subject in recent weeks. The second important point concerns the facts. A few weeks ago, on the basis of the Tahrir Institute's report, the government immediately took the decision of principle to request an inquiry. We considered that the alleged facts required an investigation. You have heard both the words expressed by the Commissioner and the elements of the report which indicate that, of course, and that has been said, there is no absolute clarity in relation to the testimony and that there are a number of serious doubts in particular about the three testimonies. A specific example has even been given. This is the testimony that was considered the most important in the debates that have led our Parliament in recent weeks, a testimony that shows the contradiction between a point that is being expressed and the information provided by IOM, in the context of the follow-up that had been requested by the Belgian government in the context of the partnership with IOM. Thirdly, there is also Article 3, le principle du non-refoulement. I have been very clear here in Parliament in plenary, not once, but a few times. I have always said that we clearly intend to fully respect our European and international commitments. Article 3 is a crucial principle. There is no doubt about that. I also note that there is an application of Article 3, but for those who have not applied for asylum and who are potentially involved in forced return, it is necessary to do more and better. That is also a lesson that the government and Parliament must draw. But I also note – and this is an essential point I would like to stress – that in recent years, during this legislature as under the previous one, no change has been made in the political instructions of a government or a secretary of state to the Office of Foreigners to review in one way or another – implied, for some, "lighten", "modify", "reduce" – the scope of the application of Article 3. This is exactly the same way that the Office of Foreigners applied the regulations in relation to this section. We then note that, in the case of persons who have not applied for asylum and who are affected by forced return, there is a need to learn from the report that has been transmitted to us. Finally, a fourth aspect seems important to me: it is the question of the return to Sudan, which has given rise to very strong reactions in recent weeks. I note that this return can be arranged on the condition that it has verified on the merits whether Article 3 has been respected, including for those persons – as I have just mentioned – who have not applied for asylum and who are affected by forced return. These are the four points that I wanted to highlight from this report which we heard last night and which was deliberated in the Council of Ministers. Mr President, if I may, I now turn to the political conclusions to be drawn from the report that we have examined seriously and the decisions taken this morning in the Council of Ministers. I will talk about the measures that, in our view, flow from the findings of the CGRA report. First, an identification by the authorities of the country of origin cannot be carried out and will only take place after examining that the person does not have a need for protection, in particular under Article 3. Secondly, with regard to the identification mission, the person concerned must be informed in advance of the fact that he will be questioned by the authorities of the country of origin. Thirdly, an interpreter and a DVZ employee will systematically be present at interviews by foreign delegations to identify persons in closed centres. Fourthly, when an identification mission is organised, the foreign organisation will be screened systematically, as happened in the case of the Sudanese identification mission. Fifth, the accompanying role of the social worker working in a closed centre will be strengthened by appropriate training to deepen the expertise in detecting indications that there is a fear of inhuman treatment. Sixth, a further examination of the substance of the need for protection, including a need under Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, will be carried out for those who do not apply and those who are the subject of forced return. The seventh point is that the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration will submit to the Government the modalities for this further examination, with regard to Article 3. Finally, I make a few conclusions in connection with the particular issue of departures to Sudan, which, as you know, were not executed pending the publication of the report, which is now being circulated to Parliament. First, reintegration measures will be strengthened, inter alia through collaboration with the International Organization for Migration. We talked about it. In the meantime, a member of the Office of Foreigners will accompany the person concerned to Sudan and a collaboration with the Belgian Embassy in Cairo will also be established to allow for follow-up of the person on the spot. You see that we take into account the comments made in this report. I come to the question of Article 3 at European level. The Federal Government wishes to raise the question of examining Article 3 of the ECHR in the context of return at European level. It would like to see the possibility of harmonization or at least coordination of the relevant lines of action discussed. Consequently, the Federal Government will request the Permanent Representation of Belgium to the European Union to refer the matter to the relevant working groups. Harmonisation could be achieved in a very practical way in the handbook on the return of the European Commission. Finally, although this is not a recommendation derived from the CGRA report that we are aware of today, and in accordance with a desire previously expressed by the government as well as by some members of Parliament, the federal government wishes to set up a commission to assess the practical implementation of the legal and regulatory provisions in the context of the return policy. The commission would be set up for a period of at least two years with an interim report after one year. It would be composed as follows: a university professor, the Federal Police, the Office of Foreigners, the CGRA, the General Inspectorate of the Federal Police and the local police, Fedasil, the Belgian Pilots Association, a public operator in air transport. These are precisely, point by point, the conclusions we draw from the report and the decisions that are taken. In other words, after heated debates, sometimes some caricatures or simplistic ones, we see that we, together with all the actors involved at the start of the Belgian government and the various services, have ensured that the rules of the rule of law are applied fairly, correctly, in good faith, properly, at the national, European and international levels. In conclusion, I affirm the government's determination to pursue action for a firm and humane migration policy in which we assume our responsibilities. The demand for accountability is to ensure that this democratic debate, which has animated Parliament but also democratic life outside Parliament, leads us to be stronger, stronger in defending the values we want to promote. I would like once again to thank, for the lighting, with the required shade, the work that has been done in the framework of this report. That, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is the few elements of decision-making that I wanted, on behalf of the government, to communicate to Parliament. We are, of course, available to respond to comments, comments and inquiries today, as we will be available throughout the coming weeks and months to continuously pursue this democratic debate informed by the nuance, enlightened by the sense of responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u12	Thank you, Prime Minister. I give the floor to all the groups. I'll have them all dealt with in the usual order. In this way, all the groups have the opportunity to speak. I'll start with Mrs. Smeyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u13	Mr President, Ministers, Prime Minister, Mr Jambon, Mr Van den Bulck, thank you for your very objective and neutral attitude. That's your role, but you've confirmed it. I want, for starters and before I forget, to thank the government. Mr Prime Minister, at the end of December 2017, I asked you in Parliament not to waste time, to do the investigation very quickly and to use the month of January 2018. You promised at the time. That's how it happened. It is of course Minister Jambon who has given the mandate to the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, in particular to Mr Van den Bulck, who represents the institution here. Nevertheless, it is good that the situation has now been cleared up and that we have a solution. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have repeated and strengthened the observations made by Mr Van den Bulck. You have clearly indicated the most important aspects, namely the observation that there are some in the testimonies of the ten people in question. We must not triumph over this. We must therefore, above all, be reassured. Another important observation is that the identification mission to the Sudanese and the assistance we receive from the Sudanese authorities should not necessarily be problematic. You stressed that we must take the necessary precautions. The general conclusion, however, is that the identification mission must support us correctly, strictly but fairly, asylum policy, whose return policy must be the final piece, and not necessarily wrong. Mr Van den Bulck, on the facts themselves, in particular the abuse or alleged abuse in autumn 2017, you clearly state that there are three direct witnesses whose testimony cannot be found entirely true. It is very important that you emphasise that you did not do the research alone and that you were supported by the IOM, by the Tahrir Institute itself and by various embassies. These are several authoritative institutions that have supported you in your research. The review of the case law you have cited can only strengthen that. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said from the outset that we did not want a conclusion based on rumours. We wanted to see the facts proven, so those facts asked for an investigation. I think I speak for my group and for the entire majority when I say that at that time we were not entirely reassured and hoped that what those rumours told us would not be true. So at the end of December we were not entirely satisfied. However, we have also said from the outset that torture can never be or should never be. If there had been torture, we would have had to review our policy. I therefore believe that I can speak not only for my group but for the whole majority and the government in this respect and may say that we are quite right to be relieved that this situation has now been cleared up and that the investigation has been carried out in a very objective, very neutral but above all very thorough way. Not only have the testimonies of those ten people themselves been examined, as you pointed out, Mr Van den Bulck, but the general situation of the people returning to Sudan has also been looked at. So it was not just about those ten people but also about the risk of the people returning in general, so Article 3 in general. Mr van den Bulck, you have said it beautifully and it is once again a confirmation of your neutrality and objectivity. However, as a member of the majority, I would very much like to appeal to the opposition. The opposition has rightly asked for this investigation, that is its job. It would be a bad opposition if she hadn't asked for that investigation. It is her duty and her duty to do so. The same applies to the majority and the government. So that's what happened. Even before the investigation was completed, many were crying out to Secretary of State Francken and the whole government that they had blood on their hands. They wondered if they could still look straight in the mirror and asked for the resignation of the Secretary of State. I repeat that we were concerned for a moment and that we are now relieved. I hope that the opposition shares that relief, but I may, with respect for everyone, ask the opposition to look in the mirror itself and to wait before criminalising certain members of the government or the entire government in the future. It is only with regard to the Secretary of State himself, who is the face of asylum and migration policy, but also with regard to all officials of the Foreign Office, who, as has just been confirmed, have for years not made any changes in their methods of return and in their investigations. Mr Van den Bulck, you just called on those who do not wish to apply for asylum or have not done so to do so. I think you're the most appropriate person to ask again, given your objectivity and neutrality. This call is invaluable for our society and for asylum and migration policy, because protection exists. One must only want to apply for them. The government cannot grant asylum or protection, cannot do anything for people who deliberately choose illegality and do not apply for asylum. That may be a pity, but that's how the system works, of course. No one does themselves a service by opting for illegality and society is not helped by that either. It would therefore be a win-win situation for both parties if this were to be done. I would therefore like to thank you for that call. I will conclude, because there will be political groups asking for the floor. I have one question for Mr De Vriendt. After all, he cannot resist forcing another false framing of the conclusions made here on Twitter. Apparently it's never good, Mr. De Vriendt. It would be a pleasure for you to finally share the relief we feel. If you question even the most objective study that is now before you, if you do not even want to believe in this, then you risk your own credibility. If you want to be taken seriously in the future, it is better not to take that risk as a solid member of the opposition. I hope you can now share our relief in all serenity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u14	Mr President, the N-VA gives us lessons of credibility, which is paradoxical. This paradox is in addition to many others. Prime Minister, it is very difficult to understand you. You tell us that this report confirms your migration policy and that is also what your party is communicating. You then announce a series of measures and reforms that clearly demonstrate that, so far, your migration policy raises questions in the light of certain fundamental principles, and questions of procedural compliance. Don't be paradoxal! Either this reinforces your migration policy, and in this case, it's "Circulate, there's nothing to see". You then continue as if nothing were happening. Either this report indicates some of the mistakes made by Mr Franken's administration, and you must therefore take the measures you are announcing. But you can't claim one thing and its opposite, unless you want to play Tartuffe again this Friday afternoon. Mr President, we need to make things clear. First, we have operated the institutions and we must thank CGRA and M. Van den Bulck in particular. At the same time, we cannot make a stone bleed, nor can we ask the CGRA to do the impossible. Indeed, the CGRA, in a completely honest way, which is to his credit, reminds him. I will read his words in extenso: "It is not possible to determine with certainty that the facts cited did not occur". That is what the report says, Mrs Smeyers. This isn't about the smoke you're claiming. I quote another important passage from this report, which is to the credit of the CGRA: "In order to be able to conclude with greater certainty on this point, further research would be necessary." We are talking about cases of torture and ill-treatment. The report does not say "useful", it says "necessary". So show some modesty. As far as the lives of human beings are concerned, we need certainties. For the rest, I understand the difficulties of the CGRA, in which it was placed. If we are here, let us recall, it is because of suspicions and obvious indications of torture provided by an NGO, but also because Mr Franken is carrying out his policy in a matamoresque manner, putting the Prime Minister in difficulty in front of Parliament. The opposition never targeted the Prime Minister, but the one who gave him bad information about the repatriations that were still taking place when he claimed the opposite, which put the Prime Minister on the brink. I can understand his position of saying that he had not been given all the information. We say that Mr Franken lied to the Prime Minister, which put the Prime Minister in the wrong position vis-à-vis Parliament. That is why we are here to analyse the CGRA report. There were both points. This means that Mr Franken's turpitudes are not emptied by the CGRA report. We'd still have to call him back. For the rest, I repeat, I do not dispute the difficulties in which you are placed. You have communicated by WhatsApp with persons who claim to have been tortured or to have suffered - in accordance with article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights - degrading acts or ill-treatment. I'm not saying you should be blamed. I'm just saying that's not enough. That's not enough. For one of the testimonies, you put forward a number of facts. There, obviously, we can question credibility. For the other testimonies, it's much less clear. There is, in any case, one that does not seem to have to be fundamentally questioned. As for the second, there seems to be some confusion about dates in the narrative. This means that the case is still under way, and that no definitive and decisive conclusions can be drawn on what really happened in Sudan. I think, Mr President, that it is essential to have it all in mind - I am all saying well - if we are committed, as some claim, to human dignity and respect for human rights. The CGRA report raises a number of questions, questions the credibility of testimony. At the same time, he has no certainty as to the basis and reality of the facts. We should still be able to be aware of that. Another point: on Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, I would like to ask you the simple question, Mr Van den Bulck. Do you consider that you have enough evidence today to say that so far both Mr Franken and his administration have complied with Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights and that they have made every effort to respect it? According to him, people at risk of torture or degrading acts are not sent home. You tell us that it would be appropriate in the future to improve the procedures. And you're right. The government is clearly beginning to take this into account. But in the past, you do not tell us, with regard to the concrete cases that you have dealt with, that you can say with certainty that the necessary steps had been taken to verify individually that these persons were not at risk of torture. Once again, the report is told what it does not say and an institution is being used to try to make a fuzzy communication. It is so troubling that, in the end, any critical spirit that would not want to be gullible should, on the contrary, be able to be wary of it and return to the facts and nuances – since the Prime Minister calls for nuance – of this report, to which it is made to say what it does not say. I consider that this dossier is still being analysed, that we have not exhausted the problems. CGRA makes it clear that more needs to be done. I now observe that some NGOs want to internationalize the case so that concrete information can be made available. I am not saying that the CGRA had the opportunity to go to Sudan to interview witnesses directly, that it has therefore carried out an indirect investigation with the means of the board, but it is certainly the responsibility of the government to avoid putting an institution, like the CGRA, in a position like that which is the basis of this report, which, I believe, does what it can but does not give the reality of all the information and establishes no certainty on an issue that affects human dignity and the safety of human beings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u15	Mr. Speaker, Prime Minister, Minister, the government's response, as expressed and announced in a public meeting by the Prime Minister and as implemented, is in the honour of our parliamentary and democratic system. Questions, doubts and even accusations were made by representatives of the opposition. I hear what Mr Laaouej has just said, and I regret that he is not in a position to take note of a report drawn up by an international independent body. All right! Everyone chooses the way they conduct their political struggle. As my colleague from the N-VA said, opposition colleagues have exercised their duty of parliamentary control over the fact that Sudanese returned to their country could have been abused. The government's reaction has not been slow, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The Prime Minister has suspended all deportation proceedings to Sudan and an investigation has been requested from CGRA, which, as I have just pointed out, is an independent body. This reflects the government's respect for parliamentary oversight. This reflects his legitimate concern about the safety of persons and his willingness to respect international and European rules in this regard. The conclusions of the report were obviously very much expected by our group, as by all the political groups. We want to express without reservation our positive reading of it as to how the CGRA has worked, as to the fact that the allegations of the Tahrir Institute are not confirmed and must, on the contrary, be strongly questioned. Our reading is also positive about how the identification mission was organized in our country. On the other hand, I have already insisted on the respect of Parliament and the democratic rules that characterized the government's response, but I am also pleased that we are not left behind, contrary to what Mr Laaouej has said. Indeed, noting that there has been no violation of the law, Prime Minister Charles Michel and his government also want to go further and hear the full conclusions. They are already announcing several measures regarding the identification and information of a data subject. They have already stressed the screening of the foreign delegation, the strengthening of the accompanying role of the social worker, the monitoring on the spot, in collaboration with the Belgian Embassy in Cairo and, finally, the establishment of an evaluation committee. Last but not least, we welcome the decision to bring the question of Article 3 of the European Charter of Human Rights to European level. The "Sudanese" dossier seen from the point of view of immigration policy can, in fact, have educational value with our European partners. It is at this level that we can act as best we can, ladies and gentlemen, to achieve the best possible harmonisation in the law of European democracies of the rules of immigration law, of the rules which I will describe as a single word, a word which may have been a little old and which is being used less and less, but which clearly expresses what is at stake in this difficult and painful problem, namely a word which reflects this will of a policy which is both firm and human, in short, able to implement rules which are just in the law of European democracies. Your Government's proposals, Mr. Michel, seem to me to be fully aimed at this objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Commissioner General, thank you all for your comments. In particular, I would like to thank the Commissioner-General and his staff who have worked on this detailed report. Ladies and gentlemen, whether we like it or not, and we do not like it, asylum policy is extremely delicate and extremely difficult. The Prime Minister has pointed out that we must be very careful about this. A properly functioning return policy is absolutely necessary as a complement to a correct and humane asylum and migration policy. One belongs to the other. Anyone who has the right to protection, especially in a country like ours, should have it. If we do not have the right to protection, then a painful decision for those concerned is that they must return. Voluntary if possible, forced if necessary, but always with respect for international law and humanity. That is and remains the starting point of our group, yesterday, today and tomorrow. I am convinced that this is also the position of this government, which you have repeatedly expressed in this House, Prime Minister. If I look at the report for a moment, then the whole of this dossier and the political controversy that has arisen has to do with a report based on testimonies which we now know have serious doubts about. That, of course, raises questions. As the Commissioner-General has quite correctly described, it has not been proved that the facts have taken place, on which I am relieved, but it has not been proved that they have not taken place and therefore we must remain cautious. I think that should be the starting point. The identification mission does not have to be problematic, as I heard the Commissioner-General say, and what I think is important, on the crucial condition that this is done with respect for international law. Commissioner-General, you have said in very good terms that we must be extremely careful about this. We need to do this first of all on the basis of Article 3 of the ECHR, and we need to examine whether the persons concerned need protection before they are identified. Mr Prime Minister, you have explicitly stated here today on behalf of the entire government that this is how we will proceed. That also seems very important to me. Commissioner-General, that seems very important to me, because I did not miss what you said earlier. Before we identify, we must first examine whether these persons need protection. For Sudan there are a lot of them, you said. We heard that and we will remember that. Prime Minister, this requires work on the part of the people in the field, on the part of our services, but I am sure that this thorough work will also take place. It seems to me essential, logical and self-evident that there is someone here who speaks the language and that there is also a representative of our country. It could be a little better in that area. Prime Minister, you said in Parliament that Article 3 of the ECHR is a sacred principle for you. That is also the case for our group, and perhaps for many groups, I am convinced of that. Colleagues, these are people, they are vulnerable people. I am pleased, Commissioner General, that our country is already doing a great deal in this area. You've also described how. I am also pleased, Prime Minister, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, that the instructions for return policy have not changed with regard to the past and with regard to, for example, the previous legislature and its term of office. I think that is important, because the government says that there is no change in policy in this area. It is to your credit, Prime Minister, that you say that more will happen when the Commissioner-General says that more can and must be done. More questions need to be asked. We need to look more closely at credibility. There are no safe countries where we can send everyone, ladies and gentlemen, and there are no unsafe countries where we cannot send anyone. It needs to be looked at more effectively, file by file. Each file deserves an individual examination. On that basis, we make an individual decision. I have heard from the Commissioner-General that after that examination the decision must be served on the person concerned so that he can exercise all his rights of appeal. Prime Minister, you have announced many measures. I wrote it down fast. I may have missed one. I had not heard it specifically, but I assume that it is also the intention of the government to mean decision by decision to those concerned, after preliminary examination, in application of and respect for Article 3 of the ECHR. Colleagues, I come back to the committee to which the Prime Minister referred, a committee that will be installed for at least two years. Translated into political terms, this means a committee that will still exist in the next legislature. Mr Prime Minister, I have noted that it is for that committee to carry out a broad assessment of the return policy. That is a very broad task, and that seems to me to be a good thing. The Vermeersch Commission was a good committee, but its mission was limited and was purely about the modalities of repatriation. This is about return policy in general. How can we treat Article 3 of the ECHR with respect? This seems to me to be a relevant question and I thank you for that. It also seems relevant to me, ladies and gentlemen, to cooperate more with the EU. As regards asylum and migration policy in general and return policy in particular, agreements should be made in the EU. Individual practices in countries and especially in neighbouring countries are undesirable as this leads to undesirable and perverse side effects. In the EU, the sacred principle of the Prime Minister of this country must also apply. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, my final point is a difficult one, namely the return to Sudan. Let us once again make it clear that people who are entitled to protection should also be given this in our country, including Sudanese. This is all the more true in the light of what the Commissioner-General said about Sudan. I can fully endorse his words, by the way. Mr Prime Minister, on behalf of the government, you have announced, defined and implemented additional guarantees. Those seemed very solid to me. Do I understand you correctly, Prime Minister? I mean, I think it makes sense, but can I ask you again? You and this government have suspended the expulsions to Sudan. I assume that you, too, will realise these guarantees effectively on the ground first and then the people who come from Sudan and who would not be entitled to protection and would not be at risk of persecution or torture can be deported. So, after the guarantees on the ground have been realized, even in our country, as you announced? I'd like to ask you that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Commissioner General, thank you for the clear explanation. Colleagues, I think we all agree that a return policy is the final part of any asylum policy. It is not the easiest part of the policy and it is therefore essential that national and international rules are followed. In December of last year, our group was very clear about the reports. We have always refrained from hasty reactions. A thorough and independent investigation was needed, after which conclusions were drawn. The principle of caution requires that in the meantime we suspend the expulsions, whatever happened. Today we have received the report and the expert, the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister have given an explanation. The report now questions the truth of the testimonies. The suspicions weren't made hard. This has not shown that there would not have been torture under any circumstances, but it has not shown that our services would have made mistakes by knowingly and willingly sending people back to a country where torture would have been carried out. We have learned today that the procedures have been followed, not just in relation to the identification mission. The possibility of applying for asylum was also offered. The report by the Commissioner-General, which I have received after a quick reading, concludes that it has been drafted very thoroughly, calls on the government to take action. The Prime Minister has already mentioned the seven actions. The situation in Sudan is being carefully monitored. That is indeed advisable. Belgium can do this, together with its European and international partners. Sudan, of course, is neither a model democracy nor a model legal state. Any cooperation with that country in order to be able to identify persons must be monitored in a secure manner. The Commissioner-General also makes a series of recommendations which make the existing procedures more reliable and legal certainty. The application of Article 3 of the ECHR is crucial for our party and for all government parties. Those who risk a humane treatment as referred to in Article 3 shall not be expelled. Our government must therefore always consider each case individually whether such a risk exists prior to identification. Our group had already argued in favour of harmonising the application of Article 3 of the ECHR in the EU, so that there is no competition. It is good to hear that the government is using the report to take these measures. Our question and desire for the government is to anchor Article 3 in our regulations, both in theory and in practice. It is not just about creating a new procedure. That's not the essence. It is primarily about a correct reflex to be careful, to look at people not as a number but as an individual, to detect signals when people or groups are indeed at real risk. The proposal to set up a committee of experts to evaluate the return policy in all its aspects seems to us to be very valuable. We will certainly support the government in this. However, a specific question from our group is whether Parliament will be involved in the consultations. The European initiatives relating to the application of Article 3 of the ECHR have our support and support. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, our group would like to thank you for the actions you are proposing and which the government will carry out. We particularly thank you for the proper tone with which you come to propose these actions here in Parliament. We will support you in this over the next few weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u18	Mr Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, and especially Mr Van den Bulck, thank you for your research and for your objective presentation of a number of facts and recommendations, which seem to be politically translated into proposals. It is only a pity that such a misfit had to be made before action was taken. For the record, asylum policy is a difficult area. There are constantly new developments, new evolutions, a different context. We must put in place an appropriate policy on this. So I do not think it is fair to say that it is procedures that we have not changed in four years. This was the first time that an identification mission and a delegation came here from another country. That's a new context. We must then, of course, see whether the procedures used so far are still correct in defining a humane and safe expulsion policy. Prime Minister, I do not feel addressed when it is said that the opposition is making it a caricature. That is absolutely not the case, quite the contrary. We in the sp.a have put forward a number of very concrete proposals. We have asked 22 questions about the situation in Sudan. We have not only asked questions, we have also made proposals which I now find reflected in the political proposals in the light of the analysis that is being made here. Let me be clear: I am very happy about that. With permission, but I believe that the majority sometimes makes a caricature of the opposition. It is constantly said that we want to allow everyone, that we do not want an expulsion policy. That's not true, it's the other way around, that's a caricature. What can be said about this story of Sudan is that this government has waited too long to take control of the matter. You worked with an identification committee, which was actually almost a sub-contractor. You didn't send it enough and didn't handle it carefully. Let me give you some concrete examples. There was no work with an interpreter, which means that when the identification committee was confronted with Sudanese, no one was present from the DVZ and no interpreter either. I've mentioned that a few times and suggested it. The Secretary of State did say it was a good suggestion. I am sorry that he has not applied them, but I now hear that this would improve in practice. We have also said that we should look at the best practices abroad. We have requested this ourselves, and we see that only 20 people have recently been deported to Sudan in Norway, not in the other European Member States. Perhaps we should contact Norway and other countries to see why it is not working. We have asked you, the Secretary of State and Minister Reynders, about the extent to which the embassy would succeed the people we sent back. Minister Reynders said he wanted to talk to the Secretary of State about this and that he should address him. I do not know if that has happened, but you are saying that the Belgian embassy in Cairo could play a role. We have also recommended looking at the situation in the various regions of Sudan, where the situation is different. Where do people come from and to what extent can they possibly be returned to another region or to the original region? Mr Prime Minister, a number of references have been made here to the fact that you have said that Article 3 is a sacred principle for you. That is good, but I have now established that this sacred principle was not applied when the people themselves did not apply for asylum, so when there was only an identification and no asylum application. Mrs Smeyers often says that there are people who choose not to apply for asylum, which makes them opt for illegality. Well, I think there is a question before that. Why are they not asked whether or not they want to apply for asylum? There are several possible answers to the question of why someone is not applying for asylum. One of the reasons is indeed that those involved want to go to the United Kingdom, Mrs Smeyers, but there are also other answers. Some Sudanese people are rightly fleeing, but they do not dare to apply for asylum here because, if they are returned, they find themselves in difficult circumstances. That is why it is so important to find out why people who do not apply for asylum and whether there is a risk or danger if they return. If the latter is the case, then we must consider how we deal with it. It's an important principle. People are scared sometimes. I think it is also important that the investigation is carried out thoroughly. As you know, the Court of Cassation has found that this is not always the case, and Mr Van den Bulck has repeated it here. I said last week that I almost think I was an old saw, but I would like to point out once again that in September I tabled a proposal for the creation of a follow-up committee. On the occasion of the Vermeersch Commission, a proposal was made to set up a follow-up committee, not as a dominant auditor and critic, but as a kind of permanent audit system. That follow-up committee should follow up individual files of returned people in high-risk situations, which certainly applies to Sudan, in order to find out exactly what is happening to them. In a broader sense, a follow-up committee can support the Secretary of State, the Government and the Foreign Affairs Office in the elaboration of procedures for a concrete expulsion policy. This is absolutely necessary, because different services need to cooperate better and transmit information, but above all because the situation and context are constantly changing, as I said at the beginning. It is important that we remain up-to-date and possibly introduce new regulations. In short, I was almost able to write the report in advance. For the record, Mr Van den Bulck, I don't want your work... [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u19	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u20	Mr. Jambon, I don't want to make a caricature of it. I would like you to look scientifically at what questions we have asked, what proposals we have made, for months. If I compare that with the decisions and proposals now being made by the government, then there is a very great resemblance. I regret, for the sake of clarity, that you did not listen objectively earlier, then it should not have come to this. Do you know why? Because we also believe that a humane and safe expulsion policy is necessary. If this is not done properly, it will come back as a boomerang, and then we will have hours of discussions in Parliament that are not really necessary. It's about people in the end. Try to treat them correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you to the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Commissioner General for this presentation. First element. I read the report in 30 minutes. And it is clear that the government and its representatives rely on the observation that, obviously, certain testimonies are subject to bail in order to be able to be right. That is a fact, and I have every confidence in the independence and the work of the CGRA. But why are we here? We are here, Prime Minister, because on 11 January in plenary, you promised Mr. Van den Bulck we read. You said this on 11 January in plenary: "The Office of Foreigners is responsible for implementing Article 3 and it is also in this context that I hope that the investigation can show how the whole of the law, including Article 3, was applied in the present case". I now read page 9 - in French - of Mr. Van den Bulck, who said: "It was found that the motivation of the order to leave the territory – the case of this case – did not contain an assessment of the possible risk under article 3 of the Convention on Human Rights. This applies to orders issued to the ten persons." When I hear you, Mr Vandenput, saying that all the procedures have been followed, I am sorry, but you obviously did not read page 9 of Mr Vandenput's report in French. [[Van den Bulck.]] The conclusions are final. Until now, and until the Secretary of State and the Government, under your authority, Prime Minister, have applied the seven points you have just put forward as a solution, Belgium is not verifying the application of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. It's written black and white in the report. Besides, Mr. Van den Bulck has just commented on the argument of the possibility of expulsion when asylum was not requested. Moreover, this reasoning has been developed on numerous occasions, since the Secretary of State used it on October 3 and 25 and on January 17 in the Committee on the Interior: "These people do not seek asylum. Therefore, we need to apply only a summary assessment." That is the term of Article 3. So until now, Belgium has not checked whether it is being applied - as the report indicates. In fact, Mr. Van den Bulck stated that this reasoning was highly questionable. In any case, that's what the French translation said. In fact, Mr Van den Bulck, you have said at the moment that - in an internal note to the Office of Foreigners, which you have been able to consult - this verification of Article 3 was considered insufficient. On the basis of this initial information, the environmentalists contest the government's action since, in this case, Prime Minister, the government did indeed commit a fault. Moreover, this is not only Mr. Van den Bulck, who supports it, but also a judgment of 31 January of the Court of Cassation, which goes exactly in the same direction. With regard to the identification mission, again, Mr Van den Bulck, you said – and these are your own terms – that before bringing in contact with nationals from a problematic country – as is undoubtedly the case in Sudan – it was necessary to be careful and to check with caution that these people were not put in front of their potential executioners. On page 6 of the French version of the document, you write that obviously people have not been warned that they will be confronted with representatives of the Sudanese political police. In addition, and as we later learned, it is absolutely clear that - from the very admission of the Office of Foreigners - the members of its staff who accompanied the Sudanese at the time of their interrogation by the political police of their country did not understand the language during this interrogation. In this case, the government so far is not cautious and does not use the advice you have given it cautiously. These advices are not being applied today and, in any case, have not been applied in the case of the ten Sudanese. The problem, Prime Minister, is that as a result of your communication insisting only on the aspects of the testimonies that are being questioned, part of the electronic press entitled "Repatriations will resume". That's a question I'm asking you. We do not know exactly when these repatriations will resume. Is it before or after the implementation of the seven measures you announced earlier? Anyway, the reason we're here was to check whether the government was applying section 3. It seems to me very clearly that both for the fact-finding mission of the Sudanese police, which is so criticized, and for the very content of the analysis of compliance with Article 3, this government has committed a mistake. I therefore strongly advise you, and we ask you, before resuming any repatriation to the Sudan, that at least the measures you have announced should be implemented. Mr Van den Bulck, I would now like to ask you two questions about the files which you have been able to consult visibly freely at the Foreign Office. It would appear that, from what we know on this side of the legislative power in charge of government control, the files of these Sudanese were particularly scarce. In any case, what we are told is that the analysis of compliance with Article 3 is brief. Does that mean that the files of these people are consistent, knowing that it is not like a file that is being dealt with in your home at CGRA since when people seek asylum, necessarily, the file is being provided? In this case, these people have a file. Is this a two-page file? Is this a matter of a few words? Is that a file in the back? That's my first question. Furthermore, what has been the impact of the recent jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation (its judgment of 31 January) on your assessment of the application of Article 3 by the Government in the case of the repatriation of these ten Sudanese? That's my second question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, Commissioner General, I cannot help but make a methodological observation, as the investigation had a dual purpose. On the one hand, to determine whether remote persons to the Sudan had been victims of torture or ill-treatment; on the other hand, to determine whether the rules of the European Convention on Human Rights, in particular article 3, had been complied with. I think I'm methodological. How was this survey conducted? First, the Tahrir Institute's report; then the WhatsApp courier; then interviews with two people; and then contacts with international organizations or experts. But still methodologically, there is no field mission to Sudan. In fact, the mission was considered, but it was not carried out. Why wasn't it done? For lack of time! But finally, Mr Jambon, Deputy Prime Minister, had already launched this investigation on Friday, 22 December 2017. A month and a half, and we didn't find time to go there. If during this month and a half, we didn't have time to go there, I guess it's possible to go tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in the days or in the weeks that come. Prime Minister, my question is threefold. It's a matter of timing. First question of timing: when is a mission on site? Second question: pending the results of this on-site mission and these additional investigations, are returns suspended? Third question, still in terms of timing: pending the implementation of the programme announced today by the government, including the Franken note on the modalities of repatriation, are returns still suspended? Answers to these questions are essential if we are to see our future clearly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u23	Mr President, like other speakers, I thank CGRA for this report. This report has the advantage of being much more cautious, more nuanced and more questions than it answers, than the government does in terms of political conclusions. It is to the credit of the intellectual integrity of the CGRA that it does not lend its support to hasty political conclusions. First of all, I would like to know – and this is not the analysis of the CGRA, it is the question of principle that I have always asked – whether a democratic state should agree to collaborate with the police services of a dictatorship. It's a political choice, an ethical choice. For me, in politics, it's no! We don't cooperate with the police services of a dictatorship. That is an absolute principle. But everyone will have to make their choice, a choice that will have to be made in front of the citizens. That is an essential question of principle. The dictatorship in Sudan is not contested by the international community. We must see the resolutions of the United Nations, it is one of the worst dictatorships in the world. For me, there is no need to collaborate with the police services of a dictatorship. CGRA suggests more than once that it does not have all the elements to make a definitive opinion. In his conclusions, he said that, in order to be able to conclude with greater certainty on the evidence, further research would be necessary. It is an explicit invitation to consider that his mission is not over. I would like to join my colleague Mr Delperée in saying that the on-site investigation, face-to-face with complete independence, would still be the best way to verify the evidence. I would say that it is almost a duty of investigation that he imposes. There is still a paradox that the police services of a dictatorship can identify nationals of that country with us, but that we could not go to that country to carry out certain investigative duties. That would be a curious paradox! Either there is a political impossibility expressed by the Sudan, or there is no political will in our country to allow the CGRA to carry out this work. My colleagues have also noted that, as has always been said, the procedure has not been in accordance with Article 3. Not only, as the CGRA says in the passage which Mr. Hellings quoted, because the reason for the order to leave the territory under the criteria of Article 3 was absent, but also because even when the Office of Foreigners examined the ten cases dealt with, obviously superficially, it appears that "for most people, it was only after the Embassy was asked to come and identify the persons concerned that the hearing in the context of the right to be heard took place". In other words, it was after the shirks of the Sudanese regime were able to carry out identification work that this happened. Everyone understands that when you deal with the shirks of a dictatorial regime, the possibility for you to testify in complete freedom is diminished. It was only then, after this stage, that attention was given to ensuring respect for the right to be heard. But this gives a flawed character to the whole. The right to be heard had to be exercised independently, without in any way interfering with this procedure. This is indirect pressure. We therefore question the position of those who come to tell us that at this stage there was no procedural error. A court, seised solely on the basis of a challenge to an order to leave the territory, would certainly find there an argument in order to order the refusal to execute that order to leave the territory. What seems to be disturbing in the case law of the Office des Étrangers, if one understands the CGRA report correctly, is that, in a way, as soon as there is no application for asylum, it is considered that indirectly the criteria of Article 3 are not met. These two elements are, of course, quite distinct legal ones. It is not because we are not in a position to apply for asylum that we are, however, expelled right away. This is a legal element that we are constantly recalling. Undoubtedly, Prime Minister, if you wish to make a useful effort to adjust the procedures, we will suggest that if a person requests the benefit of the application of section 3, it is no longer the Office of Foreigners that reviews it, but systematically the CGRA. This would seem to me to be a major development that would guarantee greater independence as to how to verify on a case-by-case basis – indisputably, it must be verified on a case-by-case basis – whether the conditions of Article 3 are met or not. This discretion must be left to the CGRA. This is a major development in administrative practice that would prevent the Foreign Office from being a judge and a party, if I may say so. The CGRA would be given a specific task to verify whether the conditions of Article 3 are met. It would be a point of convergence, if we could go in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u24	Prime Minister, I shall begin with a comment on the procedure. I remember our debate in plenary on 21 December. The investigation would be initiated by the Commissioner-General. We asked for Parliament's involvement in this. You literally replied that you wanted to involve Parliament effectively, étape après étape. I note that it did not happen étape après étape, but it did now, at the end of the ride. Furthermore, I do not think it is possible for you to hold a press conference on a report without giving it to Parliament first. I want to be very formal in that. The question of carrying out an investigation was also raised by Parliament. The fact that the government receives that report, holds it for several hours and discusses it is logical, but that a press conference was also held and that the report was delivered to Parliament only one hour before our sitting, I find, with permission, incorrect. This is more in line with the government's communication strategy than with a fundamental way of conducting the debate, together with Parliament. So far, my comments on methodology. I would like to thank the Commissioner-General for the work it has done in a short time. The Commissioner-General is an independent body and has lived up to her reputation, and I have no doubt of that for a second. Our group is very pleased with the report. When I hear the Prime Minister, the impact of this report on policy is enormous. Our country's return policy will be adapted to seven issues, including key issues, namely the review of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the report has, therefore, undoubtedly put the finger on the wound, thanks to the Commissioner-General, but also to the testimonies of the Tahrir Institute, without which we would not have had this debate and the seven corrections to the policy of Secretary of State Francken. I have read the report of 17 pages in the Dutch version. The French version has 14 pages. So you can see which language needs more words to make the point. That's a striking difference, isn't it? Our group makes this comparison immediately, namely the comparison of those who have more work than the others. The report identifies a number of serious errors in this government's return policy. The report clearly notes that the government's expulsion procedure is not well structured on a number of essential points. On the nine Sudanese people around whom the investigation was carried out, the report states that they were returned without having to thoroughly verify whether or not they are at risk on their return. Are the nine deported Sudanese gonna end up safe or not? This question is not thoroughly examined by the Belgian Government, which is legally and legally necessary. That is the most important finding in the report. The report is therefore absolutely useful. Prime Minister, you have repeatedly referred to the review of Article 3 of the ECHR as a sacred principle in Parliament. However, the independent report of the Commissioner-General states that this review is not carried out in practice as it should be. The review may therefore be a sacred principle for you, but this government, and indeed perhaps previous governments too, has not carried out the review of Article 3 as it should. On 11 January 2018, a few weeks ago, you stated in Parliament's plenary that you hoped that the investigation would show that the review of Article 3 is being carried out. You have to agree with me that, unfortunately, this is not true and that your hopes have not been fulfilled. That's in writing in the report. Mr Prime Minister, Minister, we feared that. It is a pity, moreover, that the Secretary of State is not present in this debate. After all, as Mrs De Coninck has just said, we have repeatedly warned, in the parliamentary debate, away from the cameras, in the closed committee, that the government was always crossing a number of red lines in its expulsion policy. There is a certain eagerness to send people back, so apparently without even examining whether or not they are at risk after their expulsion. They are indeed people who do not apply for asylum. The legal analysis by the Commissioner-General makes it clear that the review of Article 3 must also be carried out for refugees who do not apply for asylum before they are sent back. So what we have been saying for weeks, along with many others, is true. What Amnesty International said in his report last week about the procedure in our country is also correct. What the Court of Cassation said a week ago is also true: the government's appeal against the release of a Sudanese was not justified. The Court of Appeal has not followed the Government; the judge has shown that the review of Article 3 has not been carried out as it had to. If that is corrected from now on, we are pleased, because that will be a fundamental change in policy, and perhaps even in relation to that of previous governments, as you have said, Prime Minister. Furthermore, the Commissioner-General has shown that we have faced Sudanese refugees with agents from the regime, not only from the embassy, but also from Sudan, without Belgian officials at earshot, I interpret that so close to that conversation. Besides, it was without an interpreter. What's that saying? There are testimonies about whether or not there are pressures, whether or not there are threats. We do not know what is actually said there. At such a crucial moment in identification, we have completely out of control. The fact that this process is being adapted and can no longer be done is very good. It is also necessary to examine and ask these people if they need protection before we organise such identification missions and confrontations. The report says that didn't happen. If the Prime Minister says it will happen from now on, it will be very positive and will have a real impact. The Commissioner-General also investigated whether the returned Sudanese were being tortured. That study was carried out within a few weeks and the Commissioner-General cannot give a conclusive answer to that question. It says that a number of testimonies prove to be largely untrue. It therefore concludes that it cannot be proved that these people were tortured, but that it cannot be proved that they were not tortured and that additional research is necessary to give definitive conclusions on this. That's no surprise, of course. I think it was Rik Van Cauwelaert, who in De Aangeling wondered how one could give a hundred percent answer and verify whether the Sudanese were tortured or not, because we do not have an embassy in Khartoum. It would be difficult to fly a shipment of researchers from the Commissioner-General to Khartoum by plane, after which these researchers would look in the cities and villages for those nine Sudanese and visit the Sudanese police stations with the question of whether or not they had been tortured there. It is clear that the Commissioner-General has not been able to take such steps. We have an embassy in Egypt, but not in Sudan. It is therefore no surprise that there is no conclusive answer to this question. However, in the note of 24 October 2017 from the Commissioner-General, which is known, the Commissioner-General underlined that there is a serious risk of torture for Sudanese people in Sudan from a particular ethnic group, Black Africans, or Sudanese from South Kordofan and Darfur, a number of specific regions in Sudan. I have three questions and three final comments. Mr Hellings also asked the first question. Prime Minister, you are announcing seven corrections to the return policy. Do you want to be quite clear that, before these seven corrections have been made, there can be no expulsions to Sudan? Would you answer that very clearly? Secondly, I have a question for Mr Van den Bulck. Mr Van den Bulck, the investigation states that you only had a conversation with a Sudanese who was effectively expelled. You have tried to contact a number of other Sudanese people, but they have not. Has this not been achieved due to the lack of time within the time frame you have imposed on yourself or imposed on you by others? Or was it just virtually impossible to make contact from Belgium with returned Sudanese because they are not found? A third question is also addressed to you, Mr Van den Bulck. One of the annexes to the report, the summary, says that most European countries do not indicate how they assess Article 3 of the ECHR in people who do not apply for asylum. If most countries do not report this, I assume some other countries do. Can you say anything more about that? Which countries do? What countries have built up a certain practice in this area and are willing to share it with us so that we can take over the best practices? In this way we can do what the Prime Minister has announced here, namely a review of Article 3 of the ECHR, before people who do not apply for asylum are sent back. I have a few final comments to make. We know from the Commissioner-General's report that it has focused on nine Sudanese people who have not applied for asylum and that it concludes that the review of Article 3 has not been sufficiently thorough. Ladies and gentlemen, that raises doubts as to whether the review of Article 3 for all those who have not applied for asylum in our country has not taken place. That is not obvious, but it is a very painful question. In recent months and years there have been expulsions of people who had not applied for asylum in our country. Wasn't the review of Article 3 of the ECHR carried out for all those people, as it should be? It is a question, but well, if practice changes now, then we can only do better in the future. I find it a pressing and painful question to ask out loud. Secondly, I understand that we are still prepared to bring the Sudanese identification missions here, so to work with some of the embassy people and perhaps bring Sudanese from Sudan back here to do the identification in our offices. On this point, I do not agree with you, Prime Minister, and I share Mr Maingain's view. That we are setting up these missions with some more innocent countries, I have no problem with that; that happens regularly. So we have no problem with that, but with the fact that this is happening to a country like Sudan. We called them secret agents, and I think this is true. I do not think we can rely on the good intentions of a dictatorship. If they have the chance to target opponents and send them back to Sudan, they will not miss that opportunity. I really think there's an alternative. If we go to the Sudanese Embassy ourselves with fingerprints and have them checked, we will build a little more protection and control our own procedures. Then we can decide for ourselves how far we go, whether or not to apply for a laissez-passer. We can always do a first check of fingerprints at a distance, in the embassy, and then we can see whether or not that will match. If, according to the Sudanese Embassy, there is a match, that does not mean that we automatically have to give a laissez pass. We shall then carry out a further review, a further investigation into the infringement of the non-refoulement principle or not. So we need to control the direction a little more. It's way too delicate. I will conclude with one final comment. For a country that fights torture and human rights worldwide, what the report reveals here is a very painful episode. We owe it to ourselves to organise our expulsion policy in a different way, with much more safety guards, much more in accordance with international law. That is why, Prime Minister, my question is just as important. For us, the seven corrections that will be made are a sine qua non for another return policy. We are not opposed to a return policy, but it must be humane and in accordance with international law, the ECHR and a number of principles which we do consider important. So I would certainly like to get an answer from you in that vreband.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u25	Mr De Vriendt, the report was first sent to Parliament and then it was delivered to the press. I would also like to tell you that it has happened on several occasions that your own Ecolo-Green Group first sent a tweet to say that you wanted to organise a meeting and sent a press release or contacted the press and then informed me that your group asked for a meeting. The pot is blaming the kettle a little when you say that the government is doing this, while you are doing it yourself. The day you don't do that anymore, you should really start complaining. I now give the floor to the Government and to Mr Van den Bulck to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u26	Mr President, I will be quite brief because we will probably still have an opportunity to discuss these issues in the coming weeks. First, with regard to the method used by the CGRA, this is a deliberate choice made by the government and which I have communicated to Parliament. Indeed, we have chosen to entrust this investigation to CGRA because it is an independent entity, as guaranteed by the 1980 Act. It was up to the CGRA to define the most appropriate method in order to draw up, within a few weeks, a number of recommendations, conclusions, which he did with shade, as many pointed out in both the majority and the opposition. The work was done as best as possible, given the complexity of the topics to be addressed. Secondly, I do not intend to fuel parliamentary controversy. I simply note that, in recent weeks, there have been debates in which some have described as objective, intangible, indisputable realities facts that were only alleged, which is why we have taken two decisions. Thus, we decided not to implement repatriations until an independent study could be communicated to the government and parliament. Moreover, as the chairman of the committee pointed out, we wanted to work very, very quickly. Thus, in the space of a few hours, we drew a number of political conclusions and we wanted to see a debate with Parliament in the hours that followed, in accordance with the commitments I had made in the House gallery. I have indicated each step and have indicated that, after the report is made available, a transparent debate will be held on the conclusions, including on the annexes to the report. Everyone was able to express their interpretation, their analysis, their feelings about the report that was transmitted to us and that was made clear by the Commissioner's oral presentation this afternoon – which I thank him for. In a second important point, I would like to make a nuance, in relation to some of the statements I have heard. I didn't talk about seven improvements. Some of these points have already been taken into account and we will continue to pay attention to them in the future. It is true that we want to be more precise in relation to Article 3. In January, however, I made that point clear, just as Mrs De Coninck was right to say so and some other Members did. In addition to the analysis of objective facts, which was not evident, it was one of the research's intentions to determine exactly how Article 3 was implemented in practice. It's about international law, that's not exactly science. After the analysis, it appears that there are different categories and for one category of the five categories, the report does not state that Article 3 was not applied, but that Article 3 has not been applied sufficiently. That's the point. We want to improve that, we want to do more. We want to do more and better. That is why, in the case of persons who have not applied for asylum and who are the subject of voluntary return – those we are talking about, who are identified as the category for which there is insufficient analysis – we intend to improve the way in which this Article 3 is dealt with. This is the purpose of the mandate given to the Secretary of State to implement as soon as possible an adaptation of the procedures. It saddens me that Mr.Maingain is no longer here to hear me answer him – and this is not the first time this has happened – but perhaps he will read me in the transcript. Nevertheless, I want to highlight one interesting point in his analysis. He said that, in substance, the CGRA might have to play a more important role in this Article 3 procedure. It is true that, at present, the Office of Foreigners may not have the perfect expertise in this field; it may find itself in the hands of other institutions. This is one of the points that need to be further analysed. As far as the identification mission is concerned, I will cite another example. Some said that the Government was sitting on international law, that it did not apply article 3. Mr. Maingain reiterated that it is an absolutely unspeakable scandal to cooperate with countries that are dictatorships, such as Sudan. Now, I just brought the shade. And I note that the CGRA, like most European countries, does indeed consider a basic principle that all human rights leagues in Europe should measure, with regard to migration and asylum issues: it is not a question of assessing the general situation in a country, but of assessing the situation of people on a case-by-case basis, possibly in relation to the possibility of repatriation. Mr Maingain and you, dear members of Ecolo-Groen, must be consistent. If we consider that we cannot cooperate with regimes that are indeed dictatorships - regimes whose way they treat their people - then we must organise the systematic impossibility of planning returns to these countries. We must then take this view, which is not that of the government, since the rate of recognition for Sudanese people rises – from memory – to more than 54%. It is rather similar to the situation in other European states. Finally, let us be careful, and I will shed light on the debate on this point – Mrs De Coninck seems to me to have mentioned it –: we have recently been confronted with a situation somewhat different from that which prevailed in the past. I am referring to the significant increase, since this summer, of those present in the territory who do not wish to apply for asylum. This has led us to make decisions, particularly about this identification mission. I have already spoken about this. Finally, I share the view of many of you. But you will acknowledge that I did not wait for this meeting to tell Parliament, since I did so on 21 December, that this issue has a European dimension. We are not the only Member State to have to respect and implement the European Convention on Human Rights. International law, including European law, is not an exact science. What this desire to improve and harmonize practices expresses seems to me to be commendable. You have asked the Commissioner further questions about European law and its application by the various Member States. We also tried in parallel with the report - and the investigation was conducted by CGRA through our embassies - to interview a number of European countries to receive information on how to implement Article 3 especially in similar situations, i.e. situations where people do not apply for asylum and are facing repatriation. I can tell you that on this subject, we do not yet have all the information, that it is limited, sometimes unclear, coming from a number of countries. That is why we have instructed the Belgian Permanent Representative to the European Union to include this item in the appropriate working groups in order to formally and formally seek this information and raise the level of harmonisation in the application of Article 3. Finally, I would like to acknowledge, Mrs De Coninck and other colleagues, that Parliament has rightly pointed out in recent weeks what this government has also identified as a useful and interesting step for the future, namely to set up a committee that will perhaps allow this type of issue to be dealt with in a more serene and rational manner in the future than it has been for a few weeks. I do think that is a good thing. I continue and sign: I consider, on the basis of the report which was submitted in writing and orally, that first, serious doubts are established in relation to the facts which have been alleged but which have not been proved. That's a big difference. Secondly, that identification missions can be pursued – and that is what we are going to do – with guarantees and precautions that I have described quite precisely in my speech. Thirdly, repatriation to the Sudan, through the implementation of the precautions I have indicated; and secondly, the capacity, very soon, to pursue this firm and humane policy. That's a clear case. We will follow this determined line. The government will always be available to pursue democratic debates, with the usual vitality and intensity at this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u27	Do you have anything to add, Mr Van den Bulck?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u28	I will, of course, only address specific questions about facts relating to the investigation. Everyone's role, it's not up to me to comment politically. I would, however, like to list a few elements relating to the investigation. First, I would like to point out that the situation we are facing is special. These are persons from a country considered problematic and who have not applied for asylum. This is an exceptional situation, certainly because of the number of people the bodies were facing. In reality, persons in need of protection apply for asylum and their situation is examined in an asylum procedure. CGRA refers to the Aliens Litigation Council, which considers whether or not there is a need for protection, taking into account the definition of "refugee" in accordance with the Geneva Convention and the definitions of "real risks" and "subsidiary protection" and in the light of article 3 of the Convention on Human Rights. Therefore, in most cases, the need for protection of Article 3 is considered in the context of the asylum procedure. It is clear here that in a number of cases recommendations have been made for a particular, even exceptional, situation in which caution should be exercised. In the past, it was very rare. In the future, it will be less so. Has Article 3 been complied with or not? First, as indicated, it was not concluded that it had been found with certainty that section 3 had not been complied with, in the sense that persons had been returned in contravention of that section. Second, it was also not found that these persons were in need of protection. In addition, it was concluded that, in order to avoid the repatriation of persons in contravention of article 3 of the Convention on Human Rights, it was better to proceed in this situation as follows: for such persons from a country to be considered a problem that did not apply for asylum, it was considered that it was better to do a little more in order to ensure an effective review of the implementation of article 3 of the Convention on Human Rights. I am not going to assess the situation of people from countries that are not considered problematic, it is possibly different; like, and certainly, those who have applied for asylum and for which an examination has been made. First. Secondly, the files at the Office of Foreigners. As I explained in a few words and I can remind you, in this case, it was not'maigre' files, in the sense that there is nothing in it. No. As I said in this case, there are a number of things. Hearings of people have been held, sometimes several times. It was also found that, in this case, the person concerned was informed that there was an opportunity to appeal to a lawyer, an opportunity to appeal against the decision taken, etc. That there have been reviews, forms in which it is found that questions have been asked about their risk. With an appreciation too, but in this case, as I have indicated, it is an internal note in the Office's file. It is therefore an official of the Agency who made the examination, who is different from the person who made the hearing in a centre, a short hearing, it is clear. This is not comparable to the hearing held at the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees under the asylum procedure, which follows many rules. It is clear that, as I have already said, a few questions are being asked. In this case, if a person says, for example, that in case of return, he or she is in danger of being tortured, we do not consider whether this statement is credible. We do not then continue the examination. I will not go back to that, but we apply reasoning and explain to the person concerned that he or she has the opportunity to apply for asylum. The examination is limited to that. With regard to the impact of the judgment of the Court of Cassation, I believe that the note states that, in our opinion, the Court of Cassation, in a sentence, confirms the conclusions that we had already drawn from the examination of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and some other judgments of the Council of Foreigners' Disputes. Another question was asked about the methodology, particularly in order to find out why we did not organize a mission on the spot. This was not for a reason of delay; it was mainly a question of whether it was possible to obtain real added value in this way. I'll explain. First, the Office of the Commissioner General has long experience in the organization of missions. We sometimes organize them in countries of origin to better perceive the situation on the spot, even if we collect most of our information by other means, other ways. To collect information on the situation in the countries of origin, to carry out our daily work of examining asylum applications, it is easier to consult a large number of sources – international organisations, contact persons – and thus obtain all the necessary information. An on-site mission presents, for some aspects, an added value. However, with regard to the issue we were facing, we had concluded that the organisation of a mission on the spot would not offer any. Indeed, leaving to interview the Sudanese authorities made no sense. There was even a great chance that we would not be received by the authorities on the spot. Similarly, going there to find the people concerned would not have been more fruitful. We might have been able to contact them, but there was little chance that the people concerned would be ready to speak with employees of the Office of the Commissioner or with representatives of the Belgian State. That is, in any case, what we have seen in the past in other missions organized by other States, lawyers or non-governmental organizations. I would add that we have contacted a few experts so that they can tell us whether they thought it would be possible to meet the people concerned on the spot in acceptable circumstances. Their answer was negative. On the other hand, going there to speak with international organizations would not have brought anything as information could be obtained through other channels. Therefore, there was no need to visit the site. They also asked why there was only one person in contact. This had to do with the fact that other persons either could not be found or were unwilling to come into contact with the Commission in any way. I think that we have also checked that in the future too there will be little chance, not to say nothing, that there will still be contact possible. It has nothing to do with time or practical matters, but with the willingness to get in touch with representatives of the Commission at that time. I think that is equally true for representatives of the public authorities in general. I have a number of comments on the situation in other countries, which was also examined. In general, it is not evident to obtain information on their practice for any question through queries or questionnaires from other Member States. In general, this information is very short, very limited and does not come from it. Secondly, I believe that this is a problem which many Member States do not necessarily face. They argue that in most cases an asylum application is made and that the investigation is carried out in that context. Some Member States have provided some information, such as the Netherlands, which actually gives the impression of not doing any additional research, but that was not so clear. The same applies to Austria. The conclusion is that it is interesting to look for good practices. However, this requires a different way of contacting and investigating than sending a query, on which the answers are generally brief. During the investigation by the Foreign Affairs Office, we indicated that an extensive investigation has been carried out, but that the reasoning applied may be questionable. One final point that I can only confirm is that we have concluded that it is not absolutely clear that the facts have taken place, just as we have not been able to see that the facts have not taken place. Having absolute certainties about this is very difficult, not to say that on this kind of thing, we will never have any. On the other hand, we have discussed the aspects that lead us to conclude that questions can indeed be asked about the fact that the statements made are to be considered authentic. I'm not going to go back to that. I think I have responded to the main points and facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u29	Thank you. I will then give you another opportunity to reply or supplementary question if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u30	I would like to draw the Prime Minister's attention to one point. A large number of countries can be described as dictatorial. At the very least, they cannot be described as democratic. But Sudan is in the top of the ignominy. Its leader is prosecuted by the International Criminal Court for acts of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. It is certainly not the only country in this case, but Sudan stands out and deserves appropriate treatment, it must be recalled. For the rest, Mr President, I fully maintain my conclusions. I add, Mr. Van den Bulck, that to everyone his profession. You represent an independent and completely respectable institution. Other institutions have an opinion, and I am thinking in particular of justice. I have rightly been reminded of this judgment of the Court of Cassation of 31 January 2018, which itself confirms a judgment handed down by the Court of Appeal and which explicitly points to the fact that Article 3 was not respected in the file submitted to the case, in particular as regards the lack of verification of the conditions for establishing whether or not persons were at risk of torture. Justice has also ruled, Mr. Van den Bulck. This element should be decisive in the way the government administers the migration policy. In conclusion, I will not fail to recall that you are suffering greatly, Prime Minister, from the way in which your Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration acts, both in form and substance. Less arrogance, a less matamorous attitude, would greatly facilitate your task as Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u31	Mr President, Mr Laaouej maintains his reading of the report and I will keep mine after hearing the Prime Minister's answers and explanations. I maintain that while some of our colleagues have taken up a few phrases to highlight them, there are also developments – a whole page – on the difficulties overcome. I also hear that the Prime Minister, on behalf of the government, is committed to learning from this Sudanese issue. Mr President, that is why I fully maintain the point of view I made earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u32	Mr President, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Commissioner-General for their reply. I learn from this debate that even questionable statements can have added value to the refinement and deepening of our expulsion policy. That is a good thing. There were doubts, especially in the light of what we were told. Mr Prime Minister, I think it is right that you have suspended the expulsions, but I have just said, and I repeat, that asylum policy cannot be achieved without the conclusion of a return policy, even in certain individual cases to difficult countries, such as Sudan. I understand from you that we will implement all the refinements and floors you will do first and then do the expulsions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u33	Mr President, in the interests of a good, safe and humane return policy, I would like to support the call for less polarised handling of such dossiers and, above all, a balanced, balanced discourse and additional measures. Prime Minister Michel, perhaps it would help if you were present at committee meetings each time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u34	He's doing his best to be there. However, it is virtually impossible to be present at any committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u35	Prime Minister, the question that was asked to Commissioner General Van den Bulck was: has Article 3 been respected in this case – and I repeat the words you used on 11 January in plenary? Has the Foreign Office, in this case, done a correct analysis of compliance with Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights? Both in the report and in the Commissioner General's two expressions, in the present case, the answer is "no". So we have an answer; it's obvious. So far, in this particular case, which is particularly problematic because it concerns the only State whose leader is prosecuted by the highest international court, Belgium has not done this analysis. That was the information we wanted and we received it. For the rest, I have heard the Prime Minister's statements on the implementation of a whole series of measures which will finally make Belgium, in general, in the most problematic cases such as the collaboration of our State apparatus with a dictatorship, pay attention to the implementation of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. We will be very attentive to it. And like my colleague De Vriendt, I am pleased that this whole debate has led to a questioning of our asylum policy on one of its most essential aspects, namely respect for human rights. And as democrats, we must all rejoice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u36	Mr Hellings, please do not misinterpret my January remarks. I have indeed indicated - and that is what I say - that the investigation should show how, how, how, how carefully and in what intensity Article 3 was applied. I will be very precise, for the sake of clarity of the record and to avoid further misunderstandings. What is it? A category that has been presented as exceptional, as the Commissioner General has just pointed out. In the case of third countries which pose problems with regard to human rights and fundamental democratic principles - as is the case in the Sudan - when a person does not apply for asylum and is faced with a forced return - that is the category we are talking about - we will improve the way Article 3 is applied. On the other hand, in the other cases, and I note that Article 3 is correctly applied, we are pursuing the guidelines in terms of return.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u37	Prime Minister, yes, in this case, that is the word you have used, namely the collaboration and removal of Sudanese nationals to a dictatorship; we must improve things. The CGRA investigation shows very clearly that in this case, one of the five cases you are quoting, section 3 has not been applied. Has the Secretary of State, Theo Francken, who has guardianship over the Office of Foreigners and who has not applied Article 3, committed a mistake? Yes. It's clear. That you're fixing the blame now is all to your honor. We will check from the opposition benches whether this is actually being implemented, but indeed there was a problem. You are announcing today that this problem will be resolved in the coming weeks, but I have my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u38	Mr President, two brief remarks. I have just heard the Prime Minister say, quite rightly, that for the category of persons who have been identified, Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights should be applied. I must say that I prefer this wording to that which was used earlier by the Commissioner-General, who said that "it would be better to organise..." No, not "better"! It is necessary to organise an audit under Article 3. I think we agree. Two. Prime Minister, you said in your statement that from now on repatriations will take place under conditions determined by the government, including a circular. "Under the conditions that will be." You didn't quite answer my question. Can I interpret it as meaning that, in the absence of these conditions, and in the absence of a circular, the current situation, i.e. non-returns, persists?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u39	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u40	For this category, of course. I'm not talking about anything else.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u41	I said that because I have the impression that a misunderstanding would be possible between the majority and the opposition, which I wish to avoid.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u42	No, it is not a question of majority and opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u43	The report shows that it is for a specific category, one of the five possible categories. I repeat again that what has been said is that there was insufficient application, "onvoldoende". That's the word that was used. There is an application that can and should be improved. On this point, it is the government's commitment this morning to look at in a practical way, including with the services, how we can improve for this category that is relatively exceptional – this has just been said – how to deal with and implement this Article 3. That's what this is about. Mr Delperée, I think we understand each other well on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u44	Including the establishment of the commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u45	No, no! These are two different things. Of course, there is the establishment of a commission. I indicated it. And this will be done in partnership with all the actors I mentioned, who will have a role to play in this committee. The purpose of this committee is to have a regular look at the practical way in which national, European or international rules are implemented in relation to return, with an initial interim report in one year and a duration of at least two years foreseen for the work of this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u46	A line, Mr. Delperee?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u47	I had two small questions to ask and I got the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u48	Mr President, this is not so much a matter of substance. We will closely monitor the policy changes suggested by the Prime Minister from Parliament. We will ensure that these are carried out effectively before return flights are reorganised. Mr President, what you just said about the timing of delivering the report to Parliament is, of course, wrong. The report was delivered to Parliament at 14.33 hours. I would just like to make that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u49	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u50	We received the document at 14.33 hours in our mailbox. My comment is addressed to the chairman of this committee. We got the document at 14.33 hours after the press conference. I don't think that's a good practice. I would like to give you that because it shows little respect for the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u51	A press conference does not mean that the journalists have received the report. I can tell you that the journalists have asked me for this report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u52	They did get the report, Mr President. I don't think it's a good practice. In the future, I would like to see a different way of organising such debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u53	Prime Minister, you spoke of different categories. Sudan's identification mission was mainly organised for those people who did not want to apply for asylum or disclose their identity. For that category, too little checks have been made on whether Article 3 was justified or not, whether those people were threatened or not. In other cases, this group may be less large, but the Sudan affair is therefore a large group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-09-54-commissie-ic820x.u54	Is anyone else asking for the floor? [[No, no, ……]] Then I can close the meeting. Thank you all for coming. I wish you all a good evening, a good weekend and a nice recess.
