ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to take your seats. The government was on time. That's what I like to notice. So I'd like to start on time. I welcome you to this meeting of our follow-up committee. Let me first remind you of the intention of this follow-up committee. You know that last year, after the work of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the events of 22 March 2016, our recommendations were unanimously adopted. Parliament immediately decided to set up a follow-up committee. It may seem obvious, but in the past it has not always been so obvious that recommendations, especially if they are adopted unanimously, will also be implemented. I believe that it is a good thing for our democracy that we monitor the effective implementation of recommendations in practice. Hence this follow-up committee, which examines the various aspects of our report. I would like to inform you that we have received a report from the government on the aid section. Our experts are now investigating this and I have asked the Commissioners to check whether that report is a faithful implementation of what the committee has recommended. Today we come to a second part, in relation to the victims. It is unnecessary to say that we are on the eve of the second anniversary of the sad attacks of 22 March 2016. I therefore think it is only logical that we should discuss with the members of the government today the state of implementation of the recommendations on this part. Before giving the floor to the government, I would remind you that we have no system of subrogation in our country as exists in other countries. In this context, I refer to the French system. You know that our committee has recommended that, in future, in the event of such attacks, a system be introduced whereby the government compensates, compensates and then recovers the damage from various bodies. We know a different system. Let it be clear, the system we recommend for the future cannot possibly apply to the handling of current damage cases. Sometimes both are mixed together. So there is a system that we want to set up in the future, but in the current system of compensation, the victims must turn to different bodies with different points of contact, if I may put it that way. I am thinking, for example, of insurance companies. That's not always obvious. I have had contacts with Mr Martens, our expert on the subject, with the victim associations over the past few weeks, whom I also welcome because they are here. Tijdens die contacten, Mr Martens, we learned that there were still some difficulties. Victims are referred from one to the next. There is also the difficult position of the foreign victims. We have also made a recommendation on this. At the moment, however, we must row with the belts we have. On behalf of all of you, I would like to put a few questions to the members of the government. They will probably take that up during their speech. Firstly, what is the state of play in relation to the unique window that we have recommended? There had to be a unique window so that victims didn't have to go from one to the next. The victims should also be assigned a reference person. What's the status? What are the remaining bottlenecks? Secondly, I would also like to ask the government about the recommended system of subrogation. You're putting that into effect? Are there any texts or designs in preparation yet? Finally, the foreign victims are also important. We have stated in principle that they are entitled to the same aid as the Belgian victims. We do not make a distinction in this respect. I refer to France and the United States, where it already exists. What is the state of play in this respect? How will the victims of foreign crime be taken into account when drawing up the various initiatives? These are some of the points I noted when I heard the victim associations with Mr Martens. There are many others. I suggest that we first offer the members of the government the opportunity to give each one a state of affairs. The Minister of Justice will take the lead. Then we'll have the Health Minister, Mrs. De Block. We also welcome the Minister for Defence to our committee, Mr Vandeput. I'd like to ask them to keep it brief. The Minister of Justice has an agenda problem. We shall therefore put the questions to Mr Geens in the first place after the presentation, because he should leave us at 4 p.m. The questions to him are given priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the attacks of 22 March 2016 have definitively marked the history of our country. Afterwards, unfortunately, even more terror followed, even abroad with Belgian victims and residents. These events have caused deep wounds to each and every one of us, especially the victims. I would therefore like to begin my brief explanation by expressing my deepest sympathy once again to the victims. We will never forget the suffering they have suffered. The State has a moral duty to help the victims as best they can in the difficult times they face. Be assured that we are all ministers of the same opinion and that we will continue to work to help the victims as best we can and that we will continue to do so. In order to give a clear signal and immediately bring all the political actors involved to the table, an interfederal task force was convened for the first time at the end of June 2017, involving both the federal and regional levels. The intention was to develop the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, yours, and to translate them into practice. We have taken over the Presidency of the task force in view of the importance attached to the recommendations made by your committee. Of course, I am aware that there is still work to be done and that some aspects still need to be improved. However, I would like to stress today that the task force has at least had the merit of always generating broad support, engaging in dialogue and creating a dynamic between the various political levels. Several technical working groups have considered the respective recommendations of your commission. It seems to me essential to properly inform the victims. It's all about good communication. In this regard, two important anchor points, easily accessible to the victim, will now be provided. Currently, the Prime Minister's Chancellery is working to create a website specifically targeting all relevant information to provide victims in the context of terrorist attacks. Instead of forcing the victim to search for information disseminated in various places and on several websites, only one portal will be provided. On this portal, each theme will be explained briefly but clearly. For further details, it will always refer to the website of the service itself. This method has the advantage of entrusting all the services concerned with providing this information in a comprehensive manner. A website, managed only centrally, could quickly contain obsolete information. Secondly, there is a unique window, which will be installed at the level of the federal court. The choice to place the unique point of contact at the level of the Federal Office relates to the fact that this service has been involved from the outset in the facts of terrorism, in particular the acute phase. It is true that, in the most acute phase, immediately after the attack, the emergency number 1771, which is the Internal Affairs Crisis Centre, will be called upon. From the post-phase onwards, i.e. the first days after the disaster, the new unique window will enter into force. It is, of course, very important that information flows through the transition from one phase, the most acute phase, to the slightly less acute phase, the post-phase. With the choice for the federal court, which is involved from the very beginning, continuity is guaranteed. I believe that in this way we also respond to the feedback we received from the victims' associations. They expressed the wish that, after an attack, the first contact would at least be at the federal level. I have just come back from an inter-ministerial conference with the Flemish, French and German-speaking ministers responsible for the subject, and they all join, unanimously and enthusiastically, the idea of a unique point of contact at federal level. An important overarching and coordinating function of the federal unique point of contact will be to ensure, from the start of the unique point of contact, that all assistance has the same information on the legislation and procedures to be followed. During the period during which the unique window fulfils its function, it will be able to detect bottlenecks experienced by the assistance, and then to apply them in a uniform manner. This information, too, is then passed on from the overarching and coordinating function to all other levels involved. The operation of the unique window will be understood from a front and back office. A victim will end up with a general number or e-mail address at the first line, the front office. The front office will, where possible, answer certain specific questions and also inform the victim that he will be contacted by a personal file controller within a short period of time, between 24 and 48 hours. That will usually be a local, regional official. The victim may have a specific question, which eventually leads to other questions or things he has not thought of, and therefore the file-handler will follow him and stick to him. The file-handler can guide and assist the victim in the various steps to be taken, regardless of whether those steps are at the federal or regional level. The unique point of contact follows up and coordinates whether or not there has actually been contact by the file-handler with the victim. Once the file-handler has contacted the victim, the back office of the unique window will be activated. These are the relevant services in the field, both at federal and regional level. It follows from the Communities whether the case-handler in turn can answer or guide the victim's questions. If bottlenecks arise, the case will be taken up by the Federal Unique Window, which has the coordination function. Not only communication with the victims, but also between the various services in the field is necessary if we are to improve our working methods in the future. One post-attack work was that in the heat of the moment information was sometimes too partially shared between the various actors. For this reason, the services concerned, such as the Federal Office, the Commission for Financial Aid to Victims of Intentional Violence, Public Health in the context of emergency and intervention plans, Victim Treatment, Victim Support and DVI, have agreed a method of achieving an optimal exchange of information on the victims' data. An information tool is also being developed which is accessible and user-friendly for the services concerned. A list of victims by attack is prepared separately and will be centralized at the federal prosecutor's office within the specialized victim unit. This cell is maintained and further consolidated. In the interests of consistency, given the evolution of this type of list, it is appropriate to create this single window at the level of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. He thus has a complete view of possible new victims who would still manifest themselves. The persons making up the victim cell shall be held to the confidentiality of the investigation in order to ensure sufficiently the sensitive information subject to medical secrecy and/or the rules of privacy. It is important to treat victims' cases in a transparent manner and to explain to victims, at the time of their request or even ex officio, the reason for establishing and sharing a list of victims. No problem arises if a competent authority collects and maintains data on victims as part of its legal mandate. There is also no problem in cases where a competent authority shares victim data with another authority, which is itself competent to have such data. However, the prior written and specific agreement of the victim or relatives will be required in order to share the list of victims with other organisations that do not fall under the jurisdiction of the public authorities and therefore do not have legal powers. As mentioned earlier, terrorist attacks almost always have an international component, in the sense that they often involve foreign victims or, vice versa, because Belgians are involved in an attack abroad. In order to be able to act as decisively and as efficiently as possible in these cases, a technical working group also considered how best to act in the future. For foreign victims of acts committed in Belgium, the FPS Foreign Affairs will be the point of contact in the acute phase, such as the Home Affairs Crisis Centre earlier. In the post-phase, a few days later, this role will be taken up by the unique window, which is the federal court, which is directly involved. With regard to the Belgian victims of attacks abroad, the training of embassy staff is even better provided. It is also important to use the expertise of the federal prosecutor, in addition to a team of experts, including the DVI, the Disaster Victims Identification, which can go abroad to assist the Belgian victims and to obtain information directly from the competent authorities that is indispensable for the victims. Both foreign victims of an attack in Belgium and Belgian or Belgian victims of an attack abroad are entitled to financial assistance from the Commission to assist victims of intentional acts of violence. When we deal specifically with the subject of my department, we are obviously talking about this Commission for financial aid to victims of intentional acts of violence and occasional rescuers. The Commission realizes that terrorism requires special attention. I would particularly like to thank Olivier Lauwers for not counting on this. He is the embodiment of what must be the involvement of everyone in the services he renders. For him, every file had a face, and still has it. It is remarkable to see how many people he has helped with his expertise. Already by law of 31 May 2016, we raised the ceilings of financial aid from 62 000 to 125 000 euros and increased the emergency aid, which is advances to a maximum of 30 000 euros. It is my personal wish that these ceilings on emergency aid in the context of terrorism can still be raised. Last week, the text of the draft law on the adaptation of the victims' commission was discussed with the government partners. In addition, a number of comments were made to which the cabinet of justice will respond as soon as possible. After that, we will ensure that the draft is transposed into legislation as soon as possible, with the help of your committee in Parliament. In any case, I can inform you that all pending files will provide for compensation for legal expenses of up to EUR 12 000. In view of the particular problem of terrorism, this additional aid seemed justified to us. The respective orders of lawyers have committed themselves to drawing up lists of lawyers specializing in the field of terrorism and related domains, such as insurance law. In this way, too, we hope that the victims will be able to enjoy the best possible service. It is also important that the Commission for Victims has provided for a separate section "terrorism" composed of several chambers. The procedure has been effectively eased in order to be able to proceed more quickly with the payment of the financial aid. Thus, the procedure will first be in writing. During the meeting, the files will be dealt with by a President sitting alone, as a decision must be taken as soon as possible. The victim of terrorism must never prove the urgency of his request. It will be automatically considered. Since its creation in 1985, the basis of the law on the Financial Aid Commission for Victims of Deliberate Violence has always been that it is a system of financial aid resulting from a desire for collective solidarity and not from a presumption of State liability. However, if the victim can claim compensation from the perpetrator, from a person liable under civil law or from the insurer, the committee will be able to subrogate itself at a later stage or replace the victim, of course to the extent of the aid paid. In the future, as insurers will move towards much wider coverage in the event of terrorist attacks, the mechanism of subrogation will increasingly be used. You heard last Friday that the legislation on the insurance of terrorism will also change. From now on, the legislator wants the insurance sector to compensate all persons who have suffered physical injuries as a result of an attack. The legislator will no longer allow the insurance to depend on the place where the attack took place. Until now, the scheme could lead to an attack in the airport hall being assured, but an identical mode of operandi in a public place like the Grand Place of Brussels would not be insured. Nor will the substance used continue to be relevant. The use of explosives has so far been assured, while the use of only firearms was not. While moral damage could not previously be paid until after the consolidation of the injuries, it will in future be paid after one year, after which the victim may still claim additional compensation if his or her condition worsens. If the possibility of an advance of EUR 125 000 for victims of terrorism could be decided, they would be able to overcome this painful first step. In a later phase, ideally, insurers would be responsible for financial intervention. In this way, the State would fulfil its duty to assist the victim when he or she needs it most. Finally, I will make the bridge to the work done by my colleagues De Block and Vandeput, and the new Department of Terrorism of the Committee on Victims will receive all applications relating to obtaining the national statute for national solidarity and the recovery pension. These applications can be submitted by Belgians and residents as well as, in future, by non-residents. It is correct that non-residents are excluded from the scope of the National Statute Act, which was assessed and approved by the Council of State in accordance with European law. I am pleased that the Justice Department can take on the task of providing for an equivalent statute for these foreign victims, the costs of which can be borne by the victims' commission. However, this committee does not have any medical expertise, so we are still trying, on the ground, to find an optimal method of treating these foreign files uniformly, as is the case with Belgians and residents. On behalf of the three ministers present here, when I say I ardently want to conclude cooperation agreements between the services concerned, such as the War Victims Service, which now falls under the SPF Pensions or more generally, the Foreign Affairs Service. We're working hard on it. Thank you for your attention, colleagues. I therefore believe that I have explained the recommendations drawn up by the task force in relation to the fields of justice policy. We have already done important work and will continue to do so in the light of the important work done by the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u3	Thank you, Minister Geens, and I will give the floor immediately to Minister De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u4	Mr.President, this date of March 22, 2016 will remain engraved in our memory forever. The Government has committed itself by an act of collective solidarity towards the victims and their relatives by implementing concrete measures to obtain compensation and assigning a special status of solidarity to the victims of terrorist acts. A law was passed on 18 July 2017 and amendments were added in a spirit of collaboration between the opposition and the majority. I give the floor to my colleague, Minister Vandeput, responsible for the status of solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as Minister for Victims of War, and following on from 22 March 2016, for Victims of Terror, I have always given my full support in recent years to initiatives taken and planned by the Government to address the victims of terrorism and to ensure their support from the Federal State. For example, the month after the attacks of 22 March 2016 the decision was taken to set up the unique window and 12 social assistants from the then Veterans Institute - National Institute for Disabilities of War, Old Fighters and War Victims were made available to proactively track down and accompany victims, if they wish to express that wish. Furthermore, on the basis of experience in the field of the statute of national recognition of civil war victims, my cabinet has contributed to the drafting of legislation on the introduction of the statute of national solidarity, the granting of a retirement pension and the reimbursement of medical care due to acts of terrorism. In the meantime, a number of implementing decisions have also been implemented and the remaining implementing decisions are being further worked on. With the implementation of the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, I was also represented in the interfederal task force for terrorist victims and more specifically in the working group on the development of benefits associated with the victim card. Victims of terrorism who enjoy the status of national solidarity have been divided into two categories: direct victims who have suffered physical and/or psychological damage due to their presence in the place and time of the act of terrorism and indirect victims. The latter category includes parents up to the second degree of direct victims, including legal and de facto cohabitants, and persons who can demonstrate a lasting and emotional relationship with direct victims. Direct victims are currently entitled to the following: reimbursement of all medical expenses related to the treatment of the damage suffered, a reparation pension if the Forensic Office establishes a percentage of disability greater than 10%. If this is the case, these victims of terrorism enjoy the same advantage as civilian victims of war, i.e. a tax exemption for compensation pensions and free public transport. Indirect victims are entitled to reimbursement of costs for psychological care in so far as they relate to disturbances caused by the recognized terrorist act. Finally, I would like to give a brief overview of the national statutes and reparation pensions that have so far been granted to victims of terrorism. Currently, 611 cases have been introduced through the Single Window, 101 of which relate to non-resident foreigners who have been victims of attacks recognized by the Government as acts of terrorism. Only cases of Belgians and foreign residents in Belgium are dealt with by the Civil War and Terrorism Victims Unit of the Federal Pension Service and submitted for approval to the competent minister for war victims. The other cases are dealt with by the Commission for financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence within the competence of our colleague from Justice. With regard to the 510 files of Belgians and resident foreigners in Belgium, 363 files were submitted by direct victims, 128 files by indirect victims and 19 victims were posthumously awarded the status. For all 510 files submitted, decisions granting the status of national solidarity were notified to the victims or their survivors. The maps of national solidarity, made in accordance with the provisions contained in the Royal Decree of 9 January 2018, were sent together with an accompanying letter to the terrorist victims. In addition, 357 applications for medical examination were submitted to the Judicial and Medical Service. Actually, the disability rate was determined by the Judicial Medical Service for 153 terrorist victims. 70 decisions granting a recovery pension were notified to the victims. Of those decisions, 40 orders for payment were sent to the Federal Pension Service. As you can see, there are still a number of files pending in the various departments. Every effort is being made to deal with them as quickly as possible and to inform the victims of terrorism about their ongoing files. Once again, you will see the number of completed files.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the royal decrees implementing the law of 18 July 2017 are all launched in their legislative path, before which the ideas were discussed with the associations of victims. The Royal Decree on model solidarity cards was also discussed and chosen with the victims' associations and the Royal Decree fixing it was published on 22 January 2018. The victims received it by mail. Under the leadership of my strategic unit, a working group listed the current benefits à la carte, as advocated by the parliamentary inquiry, and raised the expectations of victims through the two victim associations. The idea is to see what benefits could be organized to foster reconstruction, the resilience of victims. We're thinking about sport, culture and so on. This group will continue to work with entities to see what is possible. The Royal Decree on travel expenses for medical expenses is on the table of the Minister for the Budget. The beneficiaries of a recovery pension are entitled to free public transport. However, some direct victims cannot take public transport for medical or psychological reasons. For these victims, therefore, intervention will be provided for their transport costs to and from places where they need to be in order to receive additional care. For this royal decree, we have based ourselves on the interventions provided for in the law "Health and disability insurance" for travel to cancer treatments, for example. The Royal Decree on the procedural aspects of the reimbursement of care is also on the table of the Minister for the Budget. The sickness funds are the gateway to receiving interventions. They compile the file and pay the legal fees to the victim. Then they deliver the file to the Auxiliairekas, who will intervene for the fees, the supplements and the medical care that is not included in the nomenclature. This royal decree regulates two things: first, until its publication, the causal link is suspended; second, what has not been reimbursed by the mutuals or insurance is automatically reimbursed by the KMI in a one shot operation. This makes it possible to solve a problem encountered at the level of mutuals, i.e. to prove this causal link with the lapse of time. After publication, the mutuals will be responsible for establishing causal links and will only send to KMI the certificates concerned by the damage. Indeed, by their proximity and the knowledge of the victim, insurers are best placed to judge. The Royal Decree on the distribution of pensions between the various beneficiaries is with the Council of State. This order was sent for notice to the Council of State with a deadline of 20 March 2018. Where the direct victim dies, a recovery pension shall be granted to her or his beneficiaries. The rightholders shall be the surviving spouse or the surviving legal or factual cohabiting partner of the direct victim, the dependent children at the time of the act of terrorism of the direct victim, deceased by the terrorist act. The King must determine how pensions are to be distributed, if there are several beneficiaries. For this order, we have taken into account new forms, such as recomposed families. The Royal Decree on the equivalence of the civilian and military victims' allowance, which is also in the hands of the Council of State, is subject to the following comments. This royal decree is only a formality for greater transparency on the amounts. It does not block payments, contrary to what has been said. It brought the amounts of military pensions into line with those received by civilian victims of war. The last royal decision on the conciliation procedure is taken by the Treasury Inspectorate. It is also the responsibility of my fellow Minister of Justice. The Royal Decree provides for the composition of a conciliation body and the procedure. The conciliation body shall be competent to examine complaints and to carry out a conciliation mission concerning complaints, with a view to finding a solution. The legislator explicitly clarifies that a representative of DG War, of the Medex Judicial Medical Service and of the Financial Aid Commission to Victims of Intentional Violence and to the Occasional Saviors should be involved in the conciliation procedure. The legal delegation is introduced by amendment in order to ensure a smooth, rapid and non-conflictual procedure. In this way an administrative appeal to the labour court may be avoided and so much time can be saved. Another step forward that will have a clear impact on victims is the organization of a unique medical expertise. All examinations will take place in the same place and on the same day. Victims will no longer have to repeat their history several times. This expertise has already been operational for the federal authorities since January 2018. We have also obtained an agreement in principle with the insurers - Assuralia and Medex - to continue the operationalization of this unique expertise with the insurance companies. In addition to the statute, there are other recommendations that relate to my area of expertise and I will provide a brief overview here. As regards the aid, after the Paris attacks of 23 November 2015, the services had already started preparing what should be done in the event of such an attack in Belgium. In preparation for possible multisite incidents in our country, the Maxi MIP was already under construction on 22 March. It has proved its worth at the same time. In 2017, it was formalised, which significantly strengthened the organisation of urgent medical assistance in the event of large-scale incidents. In addition to the development of the Maxi Medical Intervention Plan (MIP), a Maxi Psychosocial Intervention Plan (PSIP) was developed that describes the coordination of the psychosocial chain in the event of major incidents. Further work is being carried out to ensure that the newly developed information becomes more integrated into the structures that are operationally active within the acute phase of psychosocial assistance. Moreover, there is also the work of my department, together with the federated entities, to make arrangements to ensure that sufficient information is flowing through to support the post-care phase. Besides, not only for the psychosocial care of victims, but also for those of aid workers, my department has done extra work over the past year. The confrontation with so-called war scenes for aid workers is indeed a major risk of post-traumatic stress syndrome, as was also observed following the attacks of 22 March 2016. The safety problem raised by the committee by the intervention of non-recognizable or unrecognizable ambulances or services was addressed by the Royal Decree on external characteristics. That KB has already been published. It describes the adaptation and protection of the external characteristics of both emergency medical vehicles and emergency workers. This was also a work carried out in conjunction with the Communities. The equipment of the ambulances active in urgent medical care has also been adapted by the distribution of additional material usable for victims of terrorist incidents. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for listening. As we have seen, a great deal of progress has been made. However, I am addressing the victims. I am aware that all victims are still injured and traumatized by these acts of terrorism. I also know that nothing will redress the harm and suffering they endure. The Belgian State is fully aware of the difficulties the victims are encountering. It does its utmost to help them and adequately meet their expectations. Throughout this year, I have also listened to the demands of victims' associations in order to better understand the needs of victims and thus better assist them in their daily lives in order to improve their reconstruction. It must also be said, Mr President, that the committee's recommendations have been taken into account by each of our colleagues within their competence and that we have also worked very much together to achieve the best possible result.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u7	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I propose, as I said at the beginning of the sitting, that the round of questions be divided into two. I ask you to split your questions, taking into account Minister Geens' agenda. Colleagues, please ask the questions to Minister Geens first. I will give everyone the floor according to the usual method. In a first round, for questions to Minister Geens, I will give the floor to Mr Frédéric, followed by Mr Pivin, Mr Dallemagne, Mr Van Hecke, Mrs Kitir and Mrs Van Cauter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u8	Mr President, I apologize for my late arrival, but I was undergoing a medical examination in Saint-Luc. By the time I came to you, I was able to read the majority of the information, which we already knew, since the government had communicated on Saturday on the subject. I therefore have a number of comments to make. I will take up the Minister's statements, saying that Parliament must endorse the statements made by the minister, all groups together, since, unanimously, our committee of inquiry into the attacks has looked at this extremely important aspect and, in my view, we did not react quickly enough at the time, namely the inclusion of the victims. Almost two years later, Mr President – and you yourself, Mr Martens, you have met the various associations – we still hear – I regret it, understand the pain and compassion – too many victims say, while at the hearings they were asking to be taken by hand, to be respected in their status as "victims", to undergo daily terrible administrative difficulties, to have to prove every day that they were victims, to have simply found themselves at the wrong time in the wrong place. I even heard – and measured the depth of the statement – of the victims say: "Two years ago I was angry with the terrorists; today I am angry with the Belgian state." So we, too, must examine our conscience. I wanted to start with this brief introduction, saying that indeed, I think everyone is trying to do the best. I have also read that we may sometimes lack expertise in this area in Parliament or in the government. I think things are changing, but not fast enough. I will recall the sentence that struck me in the mouth of the victims: "The time of politics is not the time of the victims." Of course, the daily life of the victims is to respond to the difficulties they face, health, administrative and financial difficulties. Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, we must note that on the basis of the recommendations we have approved, there are a number of advances. I want to be positive. We had recommended a one-stop shop, one contact and not to go from Pontius to Pilate to try to get information. We find this one-stop shop with a reference person who manages all the levels of power involved in these issues. The task force has worked well – we must rejoice. The same applies to the single information portal, the website, the single list of victims and the creation of the separate section in the Fund for Victims of Intentional Acts of Violence. That sounds like what we were asking for. Indeed, we called for the implementation of a tool similar to what is practiced in our French neighbours. Mr Minister, if I have heard correctly, you have spoken of an emergency aid advance of EUR 30 000 with the desire to make progress towards a larger sum of EUR 125 000. You would have discussed the matter with the government. What is the state of the negotiations in this area? Can we imagine evolution? In setting up our system as a commission of inquiry, we had imagined the creation of a fund which would be partly financed by the private sector directly, by the insurance companies. I have the feeling that this mechanism has not been used. In our neighbors, it works. I wish I'd heard you about that. On the national status of victims, the Minister of Defence spoke, if I have noted correctly, of 70 disability pensions and 40 payment orders out of 510 files. It's concrete. If we look objectively at the numbers – and I don't throw the stone at anyone – there is still work. People are waiting for their status and compensation. I ask you, minister, to be diligent in this matter. I have one more question in this first round, hoping not to abuse my speaking time. When we discussed the 2017 law, my political group tabled an amendment to remove the provision limiting the award of the compensation pension to victims who are recognised as having a disability of more than 10%. We said it would be difficult because some people are victims of post-traumatic shocks; we see it on a daily basis. An evaluation falls and if we are on the right side, the status is accepted. Of course, references are needed, but this should be reviewed. I read that the public health office would have committed – and I am using the conditionality – to the recognition of the 10% rate for all victims. The medical corps, in particular, reacted. Therefore, Madam Minister, I would like to know whether you confirm this commitment. Then how will you implement this provision? This seems essential to me, especially since the victims' associations have been shouting an alarm in the last few days. That's for the first round of questions, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u9	Mr Frédéric, you had questions to several ministers, but Minister Geens is entitled to begin the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u10	Mr President, I was just thinking that it is terrible to have to sit on such a committee. We would have preferred never to have to deal with all these issues in Belgium. But we were no exception. And we have faced, like others before us, as others will have to do after us, quite exceptional situations. It must be recognized, with the decline of two years, that the federal government has taken up this problem with arms. Faced with this exceptional situation, it was not easy for him to tackle all the problems generated by these attacks at the same time. The government was keen to accompany the victims in a close, comprehensive and intense manner the day after the attacks. Measures were taken one month after the attacks and thereafter. We have heard the Ministers of Justice, Defence and Health talk about what has already been done. That is impressive, given the list of recommendations that our experts have helped us to make in this big report. It is important to stress the extent of what has already been achieved and what is under way. It's not just an ad effect. I believe that the single window is very valuable for both direct and indirect victims. It was good to announce and make available this unique list to the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. We talked about these issues. Mr. Minister of Justice, as I know your time is running out this afternoon, I will direct these questions to you. I would have liked more explanation of two issues that you raised on 9 March. On the one hand, there is subrogation insurance. It had been debated in the committee. I know that the victims are attentive to this very particular mechanism. We must also pay attention to it, because it poses delicate problems in Belgian and international law. It's not to the eminent lawyer that I have to tell you. On the other hand, you mentioned the cascade insurance mechanism. What's the status of this case? What progress is envisaged in your agenda in relation to subrogation insurance and cascade insurance?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u11	I would like to thank the Ministers for their explanation. We can indeed see that there are several things that are going in the right direction. But the work isn't finished yet. This is mainly due to the scale of the drama that has been faced by our country. I therefore believe that we should take the necessary time to do this right. I will not repeat the questions raised by my fellow Members. In any case, I think it is important that the website that collects all the information in order to guide the victims in a difficult period of time should be provided. Sharing and gathering information at a place will be very useful, as will the unique window and a personal file officer. It is not clear to me at what stage the personal file officer is being addressed. You mentioned the front office and the back office. I think that the official who has to follow up the files from start to finish must be dealt with quickly. It must be avoided that everyone has to tell his or her story again. I am pleased with the statement made by the three ministers in their introduction that no distinction is made in the whereabouts of the victims. We want to treat the victims equally. Unfortunately, Belgians were also victims abroad. Minister, I heard you say that the staff in the embassies would receive training for Belgians who were victims abroad. Who's gonna give that training? In what way will that happen? Will contact be made with the family members who are staying in Belgium? What's this training gonna look like? We need to look at this whole process. I remember that some relatives were told by telephone that a family member had been the victim. Who's making the announcement? Who's transmitting the information? How do people get along? So what will the training look like? As far as insurers are concerned, there is the procedure through the committee of financial aid and there is the procedure through the court. But how is it organised for Belgians who are victims of a terrorist attack abroad? Will that also be done through the committee of financial aid? How are these victims assisted in that process?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u12	I would like to thank the ministers for the explanatory statement and the work they have already done. The committee expected that the recommendations would have been put to work. Now we see that this is indeed the case today. I would remind you that the measures that are currently in a design phase will relate to potential attacks in the future. When I hear the Minister of Justice say that a unique point of contact is being installed at the level of the federal court, I have to understand that this is not the case today. Will the point of contact only be made operational in the event of any future attacks? Or is this already being done today? This is important for victims who today need to seek compensation from, among others, insurers, accident insurance companies and the victim fund for the suffering that has happened to them, and who do not always know where they can go. The installation of the one-stop shop, where you can and can be referred to, was a strong recommendation from the committee. Now that is also being done. The window also determines the order and coordination of aid to victims. So I'd like to have a look at the situation today and tomorrow. How are the victims today? Do they have to look or are they being helped? Furthermore, I have not heard anything about the evaluation of the damage suffered by the victims. That is often a point of discussion. One must present himself to an expert appointed by the insurer. An evaluation study is carried out in which the percentages of damage, both physical and non-physical, are determined. Psychological trauma is often experienced, which can also lead to permanent disability. What about that? Are victims still being evaluated today, both at the insurer and the victim fund and, where appropriate, in the services for the purpose of granting their pension? Do they have to prove their damage over and over again on the basis of medical reports and go through the medical check-up again and again, and then discuss the extent of the injury, whether permanent or not? Or has that problem already been solved today and is there one medical expertise, accepted by all 'actors', in order to prevent people from having to repeat the same story and submit the same evidence? I would like to comment briefly on the aid and the victim fund. The amounts of EUR 30 000 and EUR 125 000 have been committed for emergency aid and aid already in existence. Have I understood correctly that victims of terrorist attacks no longer need to prove the urgency of the aid? In other words, are we entitled immediately to the amount of EUR 125 000 if the damage is proven up to that ceiling? Does the government then address any third parties to compensate for the damage? In cases where the victim's damage exceeds EUR 125 000, should we continue to address the insurer, if any, to pay the remainder of the damage? How am I supposed to understand that? On top of that, there is another strong recommendation from the committee. People need help. They're talking about lawyers' fees here. Is it only lawyers' fees, or is this also included, for example, medical expertise? Counselor's assistance? The evaluation of human damage is often a matter of discussion. A counsellor costs a lot of money. I do not know if these costs are included, but it would be a good thing if they were included.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u13	Mr President, I would like to thank the Ministers for their presentation. I note, however, that this explanation is largely reflected in the powerpoint presentation communicated on Friday after the Council of Ministers. I have therefore prepared some questions on that basis. First of all, I will confine myself to the questions addressed to the Minister of Justice. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this committee meeting will not be a day late. Over the last few days and weeks, we have heard poignant stories through the media from victims who are really in trouble two years after the attacks. They are in serious trouble despite the government's many good intentions and announcements, despite the fact that the report on the victims is about a year old. There have been many promises and announcements that have not yet been made today. That is what we have to see, and I am very sorry about that. I believe that as a government, as a policy, we have failed to give quick and adequate aftercare to the victims. Last Friday's Council of Ministers again announced a package of measures; perhaps because 22 March is approaching and the debate will flare up again and perhaps also because it was known that it was expected today in this committee. But, frankly, I'm still a little hungry when I see those measures. In itself, measures are obvious and good, but often they are rather vague in terms of implementation, and especially in terms of timing. We must not forget that we are indeed two years after these attacks and that many people have been waiting for two years in uncertainty. There's anger, there's disappointment, and I understand that very well. A few very specific questions. It is now said that a separate department of terrorism will be provided for within the Victims' Fund, with an accelerated procedure. But when will that enter into force? Is that for today, or will it be weeks or months? Assistance in lawyers' fees is announced up to EUR 12 000. I agree with Mr Van Cauter's question: what is underneath? The appointment of a counsellor is also very important if the expertise is to be properly and professionally monitored. The Minister said that this applies to all pending cases, including the victims of the attacks on 22 March. Does this also apply to victims of other previous terrorist attacks listed in the Royal Decree, such as Paris, Nice, of other cases? Are they part of that? Are they also covered by this measure? There will be a portal from March onwards. Honestly, a portal where you can find all the information that is useful to the victims, announce two years after an attack... I understand that this cannot be done in a few days or weeks, but that it will only be announced and realized after two years, which I think is very late. The same applies to the information booklet for the victims. It's two years after the attacks and there'll be an info brochure. That is good and important, but why should it take two years for this basic information to be given to victims who have so many questions of a practical nature, of a legal nature and in the field of social security and so on? The one-of-a-kind window. I quote from last Friday's PowerPoint presentation: "Together with the Communities, we are looking for a unique window to ensure that the victims are provided with the best possible information." They're looking for him. You say today it'll be at the federal courthouse. That choice is okay, the federal prosecutor has experience with it. You have apparently had discussions with the Communities this morning, but I must point out that a unique window is still being sought. That is what it says in the power point shown at the Council of Ministers. Today, you found it. It's in the federal prosecutor's office. The powerpoint presentation says there's a search for a window. We're here today. Is that window open today? I understand the system: something is happening and we quickly install a window in the womb of the federal prosecutor. But what about the victims of the attacks? Will a window be opened where they can also deal with the questions they still have to deal with today? Or is that just a measure for the future, for future attacks? That must be made clear, because the victims are waiting for it. The same goes for personal guidance, the buddy, when something happens. Is that for the future? Is that for the victims of future attacks, or will the victims of the attacks of 22 March, a few months later or a few months earlier, Paris and Nice, be able to use that system as well? I also wondered about the latest Belgian victim in New York. We made all these beautiful recommendations. There was going to be a one-of-a-kind window, there would be a buddy. Well, did the victim's family in New York be able to rely on that? Was that buddy there a week later to escort the family? That's what it's really about. When will this enter into force? I have a lot of questions. I agree with the measures announced in themselves, but I have a huge number of questions about their applicability. I would particularly like to know when this will come into effect and to whom it will all be applicable. Is that only for the future, or is it also for what has happened in the past? There must be clear answers to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u14	Mr President, thank you for organizing this extremely important meeting. We must closely monitor the implementation of our committee's recommendations. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that you are men and women of good will, that everyone is trying to do the best. But the fact is that the State has seriously failed to take care of the victims of terrorist attacks. You have announced, again today, all your proposals in the future. Indeed, all your verbs have been stated in the future, systematically: "We are going", "in the future", "we will". We have heard all these verbs, all these words, for the future, without any date. I feel like I'm reliving an exercise that we've been going through for two years, where promises are made every time, where victims say, "Finally, we're being heard, "Finally, things are going to come true." Today, they no longer believe in those promises, those announcements, those solutions. We must do this collectively today. I do not point to any individual responsibility. Some have done their best, but collectively, it's a bankruptcy. Yet what the victims were asking for was simple. The proposals for questions, which our expert Mr Martens has prepared for us, are transcribed into a very overwhelming document. Mr Martens is not a partisan: he does not work for any particular party or interest group. He simply stated, through these questions, all the inadequacies, all the unfulfilled promises, all that we had recommended and that is not being achieved today. We could almost find, word for word, what our recommendations were in June 2017. Already, we had been slow to draft these. It must be said that Parliament had not rushed into these recommendations. We had taken a long time to develop them and found them in the questions we are asking today: the single window, the subrogation, the equivalent treatment of all victims, to name but a few. In the measures implemented, in particular the law which Mrs De Block has presented, we are faced with a series of difficulties to the extent that very few pensions have already been paid. We talked about 40 payment orders, but according to my information, payments actually paid count on the fingers of one hand. The reimbursement of medical expenses was, for the first time and hastily, completed at the end of last week because we had planned this meeting. This is the information in my possession! These refunds were first paid at the end of last week. The law creates difficulties, as the link with causality must always be objective in order to qualify for reimbursement of medical expenses. This creates a special situation in relation to civilian victims of war who do not experience this constraint. In the future, and systematically, in order to be eligible for reimbursement of medical expenses, these victims of attacks will have to demonstrate that there is a link to the attacks. The same applies to pensions. We did not do this for the victims of war. We view the victims of terrorism in a different and even discriminatory way compared to the victims of war. This poses practical difficulties and explains the slow pace and obstacles to the implementation of this law. As you said, minister, a royal order was required to suspend this element of the law. However, the problem remains unresolved. My requests are simple, ma'am and gentlemen. I'd like to get dates in relation to your ads. I would like to know, among those announcements, which concern the current victims and those concerning the future victims. It remains a grey area that is not clear. Promises should not be made to the current victims of terrorist attacks if some of these measures are not addressed to them. I would also like to know, on the part of the Minister of Health, how the problems specific to the passed law dealing with pensions and reimbursement of medical expenses will be addressed so that the victims of terrorist attacks are treated in the same way as the civilian victims of war. In this respect, the absence of discrimination seems to me to be fundamental.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u15	Mr President, I would like to add a little to my excellent colleague's remarks and requests. My intervention concerns foreign victims who do not reside in Belgium. As you mentioned in the introduction, Mr President, our committee has asked for equivalent treatment. Mr Justice, you have been very specific about this by pointing out that in times of crisis foreign affairs will be the focal point. The one-stop shop was later discussed. I would like to have a clear and more precise answer with regard to the processing of their files. As soon as these victims come to the one-stop shop, will they receive the same treatment as other victims?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u16	We are through the first round of questions. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course at a time such as this modesty is appropriate. So we certainly should not boast about the Belgian reaction or the Belgian system. Nevertheless, I would like to make a few preliminary remarks. Firstly, very soon after the attacks, we tried to put in place a number of measures which did not exist at the time. Some were developed before your committee made its recommendations, others immediately afterwards. May I remind you that the ceilings for the Commission's assistance to the victims doubled immediately after the attacks. May I remind you that, as soon as possible as possible, we have taken a completely similar approach to Belgian attacks, and that we have again taken a royal decision in each attack, in order to achieve equality. Can I also remind you that we have done the same for attacks that had already been carried out at the time of the attacks in Maalbeek and Zaventem, such as the attack in Tunisia and subsequently the attacks in New York and Stockholm? Finally, it is not my business, but I would like to say something about the recovery pension and the medical costs to which lifelong contributions will be made. The government took its responsibility immediately after your recommendations were launched by colleagues De Block and Vandeput. You are all aware that our country knows many levels of policy, with structures that are not always the simplest and for which, above all, many people are competent. I do not need to explain the status of the victims of terrorism, in terms of their main features, similar to that of the victims of war. I believe, however, that you can hardly imagine how much effort that has been made by the Members concerned. So it's not as simple as it looks. Mr Frédéric, on a previous occasion in this committee, I have already explained a number of things. Mr Frédéric, I tried to be clear about what was done in France and what was done in France before the attacks. Especially at home in 2007, things were totally different. In 2007, we decided that terrorism cannot be excluded from many insurance policies. We found this to be an asset of the Belgian system. I am thinking here, for example, of the airport insurer, the STIB insurer, who should be involved in all the costs related to the damage suffered by the victim(s) of a terrorist act in the metro or airport. In France, things have been settled in a completely different way. With a premium on insurance premiums, a fund was established. As I have already explained, the state is, at times, faster than some insurers. Perhaps the choice we made at the time in terms of speed was not the most timely. But it was made and we have to live with it. When we drew up the envelope for emergency aid, which is for advance payments and for final aid, we were in a double system. I would ask you to understand that correctly. On the one hand, there is the emergency aid, the advance payment, where subrogation was already possible, but the advance payment is limited to EUR 30 000 and is therefore limited. On the other hand, we have doubled the envelope from EUR 62 500 to EUR 125 000, which is in the alternative and will only be paid if there is no insurance or if the insurance ceiling is too low. That is the situation that exists today as a result of the legislative change, immediately after the attacks, to the benefit of the victims. The draft law under discussion today by the government will ensure that the advance can be extended. The ceiling to which it will be extended is, as I said, not yet decided, but it may be significantly higher than the current ceiling. Whether or not it will amount to EUR 125 000 will have to be agreed. In that case, the State will be subrogated to the insurer for the entire amount that has been paid. For the sake of clarity, that does not yet apply; that will only enter into force after the law has been passed. The operation of that mechanism was already decided in 2007. The compensation committee shall draw up an opinion and the Ministry of Finance shall replace it with a view to bringing the subrogation claim. We therefore find nothing entirely new, since the procedure was already foreseen, but it has never been used. I believe that the substantial increase in the advance, with subrogation, is entirely in line with what your committee has proposed. Mr Van Hecke, you understand that the unique window was not clear last Friday. I will be honest and admit that last Friday I was as brief as possible because you would get as many firsts as possible today. Please! Having said that, I repeat that we are not self-evident in this respect. That should not be an excuse to fail to come up with sound solutions. We are trying to do so as much as possible, but it goes without saying that many of the issues raised when talking about compensation for victims are personal and therefore belong to the Community. Within the interfederal task force, which Justice has the pleasure of chairing, a working group was working on the unique point of contact. The views of the various actors were not similar. Eventually, it was chosen for the federal court because it already has a very broad victim experience at the moment and also a victim cell that provides excellent work, including in the context of terrorist attacks. It was also chosen for the federal court because the victims' associations made it very clear that, in the event of a terrorist attack, which has the habit of not looking at exactly who is the victim of the terrorist attack, it would not be reasonable to leave from another point. The unique point of contact of the Federal Office will take place with the level of the Communities in which, by mutual agreement, for example between the CAWs, the Centres for Administrative Welfare, and the Federal Office, a file manager will be appointed within 24 to 48 hours. This does not require a new law, this only requires a roadmap that will be drawn up interfacially in the framework of the Task Force. With regard to the federal parquet and the attacks by Maalbeek and Zaventem, I would add that the federal parquet already has many unique window functions today. In April, in particular, a victim's day will be organised by the federal prosecutor, together with the relevant investigative courts, to deal with the state of the investigation and the victim's rights together. Recently, the federal prosecutor has done so twice within three months for the victims of the Gang of Nivelles. We can therefore give it our full confidence in this respect. I will not talk too much about the powers of other ministers, partly because they are present and partly because I do not always manage matters. However, I would like to say something about the formation of the embassy staff. We assume that immediately after an attack, whether it is a foreign attack affecting Belgians or a Belgian attack affecting foreigners, the first contact point for foreign affairs will be the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is as natural as normal. It is also at that level that special training needs to be provided. In April 2018, basic training will be provided by the services, including by the department that deals with the victims in my ministry. This will be done during the diplomatic days that take place annually or biennially. Mr Pivin, you will forgive me for not explaining the system of cascades in the field of insurance. Indeed, it is an issue between insurers, for which the Minister of Economy is competent. I think you'll have to ask him the question because it's too technical for your servant. I'm sorry. In the event of attacks abroad, such as in New York, Stockholm and Venice, there is complete alignment of the victims who are Belgian or Belgian residents with victims of a terrorist attack in Belgium. This is true at all levels. So there's no distinction. There was also an important question concerning the entry into force. Entry into force shall apply as regards legal expenses for all pending files. As soon as the new draft law has been approved by Parliament, all pending terrorist cases will thus be able to benefit from the EUR 12 000 concession for obviously proven costs for the lawyer. It is clear that this arrangement does not affect the fee for procedural costs raised since the attacks by Maalbeek and Zaventem. At that time it was EUR 3 000 and after the attacks it was raised to EUR 6 000. For example, this could include the costs of a medical expert, Mrs Van Cauter. As regards the entry into force of the procedural measures, a specialised chamber of our Committee on Compensation for Victims will be responsible for matters relating to terrorism. It will apply an urgent procedure, for which the urgency will not have to be proved. This procedure will take place, for all pending cases, from the time the new law comes into force. This will therefore be the case for the victims of terrorism currently reported. To conclude, I don't know if I have answers to all the questions. Mr Crusnière asked me whether victims of foreign nationality and residing abroad enjoyed the full equivalence of treatment of their situation vis-à-vis Belgian victims. This is the purpose of the compensation project - indemnity pension and reimbursement of medical expenses - under consideration in our Victims Compensation Commission at the Department of Justice. All victims will be treated equally. Today, we informed the victims two weeks ago, so it is not because we see you today that we decided yesterday that we are leaving a letter signed by all the ministers, to the victims of the terrorist attacks to invite them for consultation in April, on an individual basis, on all aspects relating to their financial status. It is particularly concerned with the aspects for which the three ministers present here and the Minister for Economic Affairs are responsible. It concerns all matters relating to the financial compensation, either by the insurer, or by Public Health, or by the Justice Department, or by the Ministry of Defence. For example, the victims will be able to ask all their questions about their individual files in one place at a table with experts working on the matter. That invitation's gone. We discussed this a few weeks ago when we received the victim associations and the relevant ministers. This meeting, like the meeting with the federal prosecutors, will take place in April.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u18	I do not want to prevent the committee from asking you a few questions in a second round. While you are still with us, we can go into a few more details. First of all, I would like to mention two feelings that have systematically seized me when I sat around the table with victims and victim associations. Firstly, there is the complexity of our structures. We, as politicians, must solve this problem ourselves. We cannot confront a citizen, a victim, with the fact that it is complicated, difficult, complex in our country. That is true, but that is why the cry was also made from the first moment to install a unique window so that it is not the victims, who have to go separately to the government, the insurance companies and the various sickness funds, but so that the government takes over those tasks with guidance, with a buddy. If we really want to introduce a simpler system, then we must at all events demonstrate the political will and the pragmatism to ensure on the one hand a roadmap and, on the other hand, a solution as good and as bad as possible for complexity. That issue was also being sued every time. Depending on the location of the attack, Maalbeek is located in Brussels and Zaventem in the Flemish Region. Those victims should not be the victims of this second time. Another issue is the attitude of the insurance companies. I was the Home Secretary when the explosion took place in Ghislenghien. All these years have never changed the position of the insurance companies on the ground. At the moment when things were mediated, when they were summoned to do something, something happened. I have heard stories of victims who underwent the expertise and questions that were asked and repeatedly complain about the total lack of psychological approach. In fact, there is a European directive on this. By having to tell the story over and over again, one is constantly pressed with the nose on the facts and the wound is ripped open again and again. These are two things, apart from the efforts that have been made and which have been made by the government, which mean that we urgently need to move on from one system to another in the future. We must no longer take people hostage by addressing different points of contact. Minister, I welcome your announcement that everyone will be given the opportunity to explain their file next month. Sometimes people make mistakes, too. We can't blame them for that. I've also heard that some stories that were checked didn't match reality. That's what they get. Such conversations and meetings can only contribute to a better understanding. I was gonna give that to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u19	I thank the ministers for the answers. The last announcement that the victims can come individually to explain the concrete problems they face is very important. I have a few more questions to clarify. As regards the question of whether the amount of EUR 12 000 for legal assistance can also be used for the advisory experts, you referred to another intervention of EUR 3 000, which is increased to EUR 6 000. Are the two amounts complementary to each other? You say they're special. There is therefore EUR 6 000 for experts and EUR 12 000 for lawyers' fees. That's obvious. You also replied that the amount of EUR 12 000 also applies to all pending terrorist cases. Does that mean that terrorist files are pending before a Belgian court or is that general? Are the families of the victims of the attacks in New York or Tunisia, for example, also covered by this regulation? So is it not just a terrorist case in Belgium, but also generally a file recognised by royal decree? Is that the criterion?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u20	Mr President, that is absolutely the case. It concerns all the dossiers that have been recognised as equivalent to terror in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u21	Minister, questions about timing have been asked about personal guidance. You have answered a number of questions. You replied, for example, that we must wait for the new legislative text to be adopted on a number of matters. When does the announced personal guidance begin? Do you have a specific date in mind for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u22	Mr President, I take note of what you have rightly said, namely that the complexity of the Belgian State is our business and not the business of our citizens. Mr Van Hecke, you will forgive me if I wait for the meetings in April with the victims, all of whom are registered, so that I can see what comes up. After all, we must not forget that a great many files are already under discussion and that it is not necessary to appoint a file-handler for each pending dossier. On that occasion, the federal court will examine whether it would be useful for a number of cases, since I cannot imagine that it would be useful for each case to appoint, in consultation with the Communities, a file-handler, for example, for Flanders the CAB.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u23	Minister, that is an important addition, which I would also like to propose. A number of specific cases will show that there is a real need for individual guidance and that this possibility is also offered immediately. That's essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u24	The question of deadlines is not very clear. When do you think that Parliament will be able to examine the text(s)? A number of texts are planned. It's important. You said the advance could be provided with a very high ceiling. So we're talking in advance. I regret that we are not in a system such as the French system, where urgent and automatic immediate compensation is provided for all victims. It's not an advance, it's compensation. This is indeed an advance, not an automatic compensation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u25	Mr. Dallemagne, may I interrupt? In France, there is no insurance. It's important. That's what I explained. Insurance is compulsory. The Minister of Economy has obtained from Assuralia that the insurance would even be extended. So far, it has been reserved for insured communities, such as STIB or Brussels airport. Ultimately, insurers have committed themselves to insuring all terrorism, no matter where it occurs in our country. This means, therefore, that unless, by chance, the risk is not covered by the insurer, it will always be advances. However, they will be much higher than at present. However, I regret the state's subrogation in the rights of the victim vis-à-vis the insurer. In 2007, the legislator opted for a system where insurance was compulsory.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u26	Minister, I understand. I simply think that we could have gone further, beyond the costs that could be reimbursed later by insurance. In this whole system of insurance, we subrogate to insurance and could have automatically compensated the victims, regardless of the damage incurred, as is the case in other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u27	Mr Dallemagne, we have also granted packages, regardless of the damage incurred.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u28	Yes. This shows that it is possible to compensate on a flat-rate and automatic basis. This was actually done on a case-by-case basis, depending on the situation. In relation to my first question, when will Parliament receive the texts on compensation deadlines?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u29	With your help, this text should be voted on before the big holidays. In my view, the text is ready, but it is still being discussed within the government. I'm not the one who can hire the government. That seems to me to be possible at any rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u30	I thank the Minister for the clarification. I think it is important that the proposed regulation should apply immediately, including on pending dossiers. There is one aspect I have not heard from you. Has the interfederal task force also considered the evaluation of human damage? How could one organize it to allow this to happen once? Suppose the Victims' Fund accepts that damage is budgeted at 15% permanent disability. Does this therefore apply to the recovery pension and can it be used against the insurer? There is a way of preventing victims from having to fight over and over again in different echelons for the budget and the evaluation of human damage. Can anything be done about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u31	Since it concerns insurers and the percentage of physical and psychological damage, medical expertise is objective and independent. The percentage does not automatically pass, because it is a completely different expertise, namely a medical one. A unique window has been created there, from 1 January 2018, where both insurance and Medex call for medical expertise in one place and at the same time. If there is no consolidation yet, they will have to come back from time to time, but that will always happen together. That percentage shall be determined by an independent assessment at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u32	So, if there's an expertise going on with Medex, will it also be able to be used to get compensation from the insurer?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u33	They'll be there. There'll be a doctor from Medex and a doctor from the insurance company.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u34	What about the Victims' Fund?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u35	And the victim, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u36	So that one does not again and again...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u37	No, no. In the same place, at the same time, both the victim and the doctors are present to determine the percentage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u38	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u39	Mr President, I would just like to bounce back on what the Minister of Justice has said. Mr Dallemagne referred to the concept of time limits. We have insisted enough on whether we can still talk about an emergency situation. No. Two years have passed. We repeated and repeated that our time was not the same as that of the victims. As far as I am concerned, I cannot be satisfied, minister, when I hear you saying that the texts are ready, that you assume that they will be voted before the summer, but that you cannot commit on behalf of the government. Three important government ministers are here. If the texts are ready, I think the answer should be that they will be tabled quickly. The Council of State is, of course, in line. But when you are heard, minister, there is a feeling that any concrete progress, beyond the declarations of intent, is still being postponed to the summer holidays or even afterwards. That is an answer that I cannot satisfy myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u40	The latter is undoubtedly right. We need to look into this, also in relation to other parts. I address myself to the government. When texts are ready, can Parliament then look at them and discuss them? Can we then put forward legislative proposals, or discuss government proposals, which of them is not a matter of faith to me? The question is how we can move forward as quickly as possible in that legal process. With regard to the recommendations of the committee which require legislative amendments or amendments, we can make agreements in dialogue. If we can get it through a bill faster, we'll definitely check it out. Mr. Justice Minister, you have the right to make your decision, that was our agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u41	Mr President, I am going to do that, I would like to be able to do so in cooperation with your committee, but there will always be a double trail. There is also the question of colleagues to subject this, even if it is a legislative proposal, which I would very much like to have, to the review of the Council of State. If that can happen with urgency, with great pleasure. I have to go to the Justice Committee, where I am asked questions about Bastogne, so I did not want to avoid it for that reason. I apologize for leaving you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u42	We understand that. Mrs De Block and Mr Vandeput, questions have already been raised about your powers. I would ask you to take that up immediately. Then we can look at what remains for a possible second round? Mr De Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u43	Mr President, on Mr Frédéric's question as to the minimum rate of 10% for access to a compensation pension, medical expertise is objective and independent. There is no minimum rate acquired in the law. Damage must be equal to at least 10 per cent in order to obtain a lifetime pension, and this rule is based on the rate of civilian war victims. The misunderstanding arises from the question of whether a victim without physical damage but with mental disorders can obtain 10% disability and, in this way, a lifetime annuity. The answer was yes. But the rate is not standard. The situation is judged on a case-by-case basis. So far, the majority of direct victims benefit from rates above 10 per cent. But when it comes to people with subjective post-traumatic stress, such as victims on the scene but far from where the explosion took place, it is possible that the rate is estimated at 6 or 8%. There are also victims without physical injury but with very serious mental injuries requiring heavy neuropsychiatric treatments and for whom the rate is estimated to be above 10%. There is no rule: evaluation is objective and individual. With regard to Mr Dallemagne's questions regarding the reimbursement of care by mutuals, it is clear that insurers are the first line for victims with regard to the reimbursement of care. In order to avoid the dismissal of victims from all sides, it was agreed that insurers should send the supplementary care to the Auxiliary Fund for Sickness and Disability Insurance (CAAMI). A few weeks ago, we also found that some mutual funders were not aware of the rights of the victims of the attacks. I asked the President of the Intermutualist College by mail to follow this file closely so that the victims do not have to undergo yet another victimization and to ensure that they would receive correct information and appropriate support and that the intermutualist coordination would be carried out at best. The five alliances of mutuals have each appointed an official, who makes the link between structures, case by case, when victims encounter problems. The working group of all mutualities, together with the Auxiliaries and the RIZIV, has optimised the administrative procedure for future payments and will organise the intervention for the medical costs of the past through a one-shot operation. This one shot operation means that the causal link for direct victims will not be sought for them until the publication of the royal decree. No less than 87% of the amounts relating to the certificates of care submitted to the mutual fund have been reimbursed to the victims under the traditional social insurance scheme, i.e. directly. CAAMI is responsible for refunding the difference, i.e. the moderator ticket and the surcharge. It is true that the moderator ticket and psychological care were reimbursed last week, but this date is incidental and due to the work of this administration. The refund could have taken place next week. The amounts paid are as follows: EUR 119 000 for direct victims for all physical and psychological care and EUR 2 400 for indirect victims for psychological care. The supplement that will be mentioned at the next care committee on 30 March remains. This supplement represents less than 4 per cent of the total amount. We will then have paid for everything that was due for the past and we will be able to start our work on the case of new victims. With regard to discrimination between civilian war victims and victims of attacks, the law of 18 July 2017 was based on the law concerning civilian victims. You're talking about a difference in the reimbursement of care, but there are many others. This is a completely different law, but we have been inspired by it. That is how we have inserted a statute for indirect victims, which does not exist for war victims. The reimbursement of psychological care has been extended to legal and de facto cohabitants, which is not the case for war victims. If the causal link was suspended, it was because the mutuals could not analyze certificates two years later. But for the future, they agree to do this job. With regard to the evidence requested from the victim, the victim will have to report the link with the attack to his or her mutual partner by making a simple statement. I would remind you that a single medical expertise has already been operational since the beginning of January. Of course, we have not had the opportunity to organize it for all those who have already been examined. We cannot act retroactively. We must not repeat everything that has been done.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u44	Mr President, I believe that the most important questions were answered. I think it is important to bear in mind that, even if the status of victims of terrorism is inspired by that of the victims of war in the past, they are fundamentally different. Mrs De Block has already mentioned these differences. I would like to emphasise these differences once again. I would also like to stress once again that all 510 applications for the status of national solidarity were approved, communicated and the maps were delivered to them. There are 357 applications for disability. I believe that Mr De Block has already indicated that the medical examination which must determine the correct rate of disability takes time. In view of the period between the establishment of the law, the definition of the application and control procedure, and what has been done since then, I believe that our services have worked hard. However, they still have a lot of work ahead of them. The services are working hard to process all cases as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u45	Mr President, I thank the Ministers for their answers. Minister, it is true that the law is inspired by the law on the civilian victims of war and, at the same time, we are moving away from it in a number of ways. This is probably the difficulty because a law has been composed with all sorts of disparate elements. You say that in some respects, victims of terrorism could be seen better than civilian victims of war because some parents, for example, could be considered indirect victims. In the case of indirect victims, they report a great deal of difficulty since only psychological or psychosomatic care could be reimbursed. The concept of "psychosomal disease" is a problem in itself. What is a psychosomatic disease? How can we prove that a disease is psychosomatic? It is a very great difficulty, obviously, that no one had thought about but is now on the table. With regard to the causal link, you say that in the future, a simple statement before mutuals will suffice. Will it be a simple declaration once and for all or for each episode of illness or for each new pathology that would trigger? Today, the law seems to consider that this causal link will have to be established every time when, again, as far as the victims of war are concerned, it is once and for all. It seems to me that we should either amend the text or at least clarify it because it is indeed a difficulty today. Obviously, when I speak with the various people who are concerned with these problems, it seems to me that this will remain a difficulty. In the Civil Victims of War Act, hidden Jewish children often have relatively high disability rates, well above 10 per cent. And good for them, that's a very good thing. As far as indirect victims are concerned, this is absolutely not the case, obviously, or in any case very rarely. Or in any case, they tell me that they have absolutely no access to the benefits that are, for example, those of hidden Jewish children. [[Once again, so much the better for the latter!]] It is good, but it is true that one wonders why an indirect victim - a father or a mother who lost, his son, his daughter in Zaventem or Maelbeek - could not actually have a disability recognition rate that is equivalent to that of a hidden Jewish child. So I think there are significant difficulties in this bill. We will probably have an opportunity to return, but these are difficulties raised by various experts. It will probably be necessary to consider simplifying things - knowing that it is the government's will - and to clarify things and to avoid a bureaucracy that is systematically installed whenever a victim has to knock on the door of DG War Victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u46	Madam Secretary, I have another question about the unique medical expertise. You have already replied in part through Mrs Van Cauter's question. You were asked who will be present at the expertise and you replied that Medex's doctor, the insurer's doctor and the victim will be present. I thought I understood that the two doctors would decide, but I assume that only Medex's doctor will decide, but not the insurer's doctor. After all, we absolutely must avoid the doctor appointed by the insurer taking a decision on the percentage. Well, then, of course, we've been seen. I can understand why he is present as an advisory doctor and, if necessary, on the basis of the preliminary report of the expertise, he may be able to make comments, but that doctor should not be allowed to take part in the decision. That's the impression you gave.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u47	No, I said that the victim will be medically examined at the same time and place by Medex's doctor and by the insurance doctor. I have never said that the decision of both doctors will be discussed or that it will be the same. They retain their own competence as regards their mission, for the report and for the determination of the percentage. That remains their own decision, whether they work for Medex or for insurance. You may have missed a bit, but I made it clear that the patient will be examined at the same time and in the same place. The decision on the follow-up remains their own competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u48	It is important that the medical examination takes place at the same time. That is important, because then one should not do the same medical examination twice or three times. Suppose, however, that a permanent disability must be determined and Medex's expert reaches 15%. Should the insurance company accept or can it say, on the basis of the same expertise where our doctor was present, that it is 8%? We shall then have such discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u49	We should not have an agreement on this. They each go further according to their legal mandate, even if it is with different percentages.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u50	So they can come up with different results based on the same medical examination?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u51	Yes, since they are both independent and have their own legal orders.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u52	I don't know if this was the ratio legis of our recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u53	As far as the legislation currently in force is concerned, you must ask Minister Peeters that question. You can now not allow insurance to use other rates as they always use, in any case for determining medical damage. Those rates are fixed and are even somewhat European in line. You cannot now say that it will be different rates in the event of attacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u54	That's not the point. I don't want any other rates. The only thing I want to avoid is that if the victim goes to medical expertise, where there are two doctors, one, of Medex, is 15%, whereas in the context of, for example, the practice of occupational accident insurance, the insurer's expert is 8%. If we are faced with such situations, the victims will be standing here again and the misunderstanding will be enormous. That will not be accepted. In fact, I find it incomprehensible myself. In determining incapacity for work, the experts cannot reach two different degrees, for example one at 8 % and the other at 15 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u55	They have different assignments. If it is an accident at work, as is the case with many people, then the percentage will depend on the capacity to work, if there is still one. As far as Medex is concerned, it's about the physical and psychological damage someone has suffered, but it doesn't relate to the fact that someone's remaining capacity to work remains. That's just the observation of someone's physical and psychological damage. This is separate from what one's ability to work is. The percentages cannot therefore be the same since the contract is different. In some cases it may be, but it doesn't have to be. They note what they need to record in a physical and perhaps psychological examination and they ask the patient the questions they need to ask, each at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u56	Mr President, Madam Minister, could it be that both of them, each for his own task, have to decide on the date of consolidation, for example?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u57	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, you know that consolidation is sometimes made difficult by the fact that, over time, additional investigations or, as in the case of serious victims, additional interventions are needed, so that consolidation can be delayed for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u58	The question is, can it be?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u59	This may differ for the possibility of continuing to work, for the remaining capacity to work or for the permanent physical and psychological damage, in which years later changes may occur.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic843x.u60	Mr Van Hecke, you have certainly had ample opportunity to make your points. If no one else has points, on behalf of the committee, I would like to thank the members of the government who gave their explanations and the state of play regarding the implementation of the recommendations on victims. I will set a new date in consultation with you. It is important to remind you of the commitment of all the Commissioners to comment on the government's report on the first part, namely aid. In other words, you indicate whether you accept it, have comments or wish to correct it. If necessary, you will have to provide this to the secretariat. That is certainly a point on which we must come back. Of course, we will continue to keep an eye on the issue of victims. This brings us to the implementation of all the recommendations related to the safety architecture section. I will not set the date for the next sitting. I will do so in consultation with the group leaders, in the Conference of Presidents. If there are no further questions and comments, I can close the sitting here.
