ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u1	Mr Minister, in a judgment of 30 May, the Dutch-speaking court of first instance in Brussels decided that the implementation of all the points of the Wathelet plan, including the seventh point, should stop the use of the Leuven route straight ahead within 90 weeks. The municipalities Haacht, Holsbeek, Rotselaar and Aarschot, and the residents group Leuven Rechtdoor vzw call you to rely on the verdict. Also in 2014 and 2017 no appeal was lodged against the judgment concerning the routes above Brussels. They also call again for consultation, which should lead to a genuinely equitable distribution of noise pollution. As a result, every resident will be treated equally and, in addition to the desires, will experience the same amount of charges from the airport. At the committee meeting on 6 June, some of my fellow Members asked you about this. I was not there because of a misunderstanding, even though I had immediately put a question to you. You replied that it was too early to give an opinion on the enforcement of the judgment or on appeal. You also wanted to wait and see the reactions of all those involved. My question is simply a follow-up question. Are the reactions of those interlocutors already there? What are these reactions? What are your further plans in the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u2	The new judgment clearly points out, firstly, that what was done in the past was wrong and must therefore be changed. Secondly, it makes it clear that the judicial process will not provide a solution, given the sometimes contradictory views expressed in the judgments and judgments. On the contrary, the various statements sometimes narrow the framework in which a solution has to be found. Consequently, the government will deal with the cases in the correct order and ensure that the decision-making process is prepared under the 2006 Act and the European Regulation 598/2014. I repeat that I want to create an overall solution which includes all the elements of the dossier, such as the routes of flight and the drafting of a law. A solution must also be global, because an approach that focuses exclusively on a geographical area entails the risk of very partially resolving the problem or merely shifting it. The environmental impact study on noise around Brussels airport is national in all areas and will have to provide alternative solutions. The results of this study will indeed be of great importance as an objective basis for the search for a solution. It would be bad governance if structural measures were taken which could be rejected by the study. At the moment there are discussions to determine what action should be taken on the verdict. I would also point out that the issue of the Leuven Straightway route is currently being examined by the Brussels appeal court after the judge has delivered a judgment which is contrary to the latest judgment. Any decision will therefore also have to respect the forthcoming judgment of the Court. In that file, the State was sentenced in June 2015 to discontinue the use of the so-called Leuven Straight ahead procedure. That judgment was delivered by default. However, in April 2016, the court revised its position and lifted the ban on using the route Leuven Straight ahead. That decision of April 2016 has today been appealed against. Since the court has already ruled in conflicting terms up to three times, it is not possible to anticipate the expected judgment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think that we are in any case in full agreement that the judicial process is not the right way to find a solution. On the contrary, I believe that a political solution must be found, just as you accept. However, every time we ask for a solution, you answer that you still have to hear all the partners and that you are still waiting for a particular judgment or a court ruling. I wonder if you will follow the legal road instead of the political road. In the meantime, it is taking far too long and no clear timing is put forward. I cannot get the impression that the issue is being referred to the Greek calendar. I would once again urge that there be a political solution in consultation with all the groups living around the airport and using the airport. Thank you, Minister, and I assume that we will return to the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u4	Madam Chair, Minister, the railway lines at Warchin are not sufficiently secure. Many fences adjacent to these tracks and used to prevent access to them are simply removed. These security deficiencies were identified by the police and transmitted to Infrabel several months ago. To date, nothing has been done. In the fight against trespassing, which still causes many accidents today, it is necessary for Infrabel to take responsibility and act as quickly as possible. Minister, when will Infrabel do the necessary security work there?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u5	Dear colleague, Infrabel informs me of the following. Infrabel visited the site on 27 June to see the problem. Closing work (100 metres) will be undertaken before the end of 2018 in order to secure the recovery area between Warchin Street and the Old Chemin d'Ath. Regarding the area between Rue de l'Hôpital and Clos Edmond Leclercq, the existing fences are in good condition. However, the entire area will be inspected and any damage to the fences will be repaired.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u7	Minister, I would like to ask you about a situation which has been reported to me, namely the non-compliance of some pedestrians with the signs of the crossing at Maunde, a village of the entity of Tournai. Barriers and red lights are arranged in such a way that some distracted pedestrians, who exit the bus and cross the tracks, do not immediately realize that the crossing is closed. On the other hand, I am well aware that some pass through the passage deliberately when it is closed. Can you give me the figures for pedestrian accidents that cross the closed level crossings in Belgium for the years 2016 and 2017? Is it possible to add an additional red light on the side of the bus stop for this specific pass in Maunde? Are prevention campaigns being carried out to combat this phenomenon? What is the amount of the fine that the person who adventures on the tracks incurs when the barrier is lowered?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u8	Dear colleague, in 2016 two pedestrians and one cyclist were hit by a train at a closed crossing. These accidents caused one death and two serious injuries. In 2017, three pedestrians and two cyclists were struck by a train at a closed crossing. These accidents resulted in three deaths and one minor injury. The marking requirements of a crossing are determined by the Mobility and Transport FPS and defined in a Ministerial Order. The prescriptions follow periodic tours by this service with Infrabel's services. As a result, the signs in place are adapted to the changing local situation, in particular the pattern of roads and the importance of road traffic. Regrettably, it will never be possible to prevent an undue crossing by a road user who is insensitive to the sign-signalling injunctions in place or by deliberately ignoring lights, audible alarms and closed barriers. However, Infrabel has informed me that she will contact the SPF, so that he considers the need to adapt the signs on the spot. Various awareness-raising campaigns are planned during 2018, in order to raise awareness among young people. First, Infrabel will be present at various music festivals this summer. The aim is to educate young adults between the ages of 18 and 25 about the dangers of crossing the tracks. Second, since 2017, Infrabel has placed priority on raising awareness among young children of the basic safety rules to be observed in the vicinity of railway tracks. In primary education between the ages of 6 and 12, there are awareness kits, activity books on rail safety and the major school calendars in which SNCB and Infrabel are present. In secondary education, The Floor raises awareness among secondary school students of the dangers of travelling along railway lines through a virtual reality experience with dynamic soils and sound effects. Thanks to a mask, each student can see a 360° film from the point of view of a person who ignores the rules along the tracks with all the expected consequences (the images are hard). Infrabel performed a crash test at a crossing whose images were widely disseminated on social networks in order to discourage risky behaviour. Under the recent Railway Police Act of 27 April 2018, preventing rail traffic from entering the railway infrastructure without authorization is considered a category 4 offence or a very high level. As such, in addition to criminal proceedings, offences may be punishable by an administrative fine of EUR 300.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u9	I thank the minister for his full response.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u10	Madam Chair, Minister, the L289 line was built in 1997. It connects line 162 at Marbehan height to the Valvert company in Etalle, a mineral water bottling plant. The company is still present at the moment, but the line is no longer in operation. In terms of cost, the installation of more than four kilometres of rail had cost, at the time, €2.5 million with co-financing from the Walloon Region. Unfortunately, after ten years of use by the Valvert plant, as a result of a change in SNCF's policy on isolated cars, the use of this line was stopped. The railway adventure ended in February 2009, but, as I said, the plant continues to operate. Today, it is my responsibility that this line could be reopened at the initiative of new operators from the private sector. They have set up a cooperative company called Ardenne Gaume Rail (AGR). This cooperative would be modelled on the models of the new local railway operators in France. These new companies are promoting rail transport and sustainable development. You will agree with me that this is quite interesting. They want to allow companies from different sectors to organize convoys in a demarcated area, without the constraints and obligations of a national or international railway company. The local railway operator offers "tailor-made" logistics solutions to its customers, provides rail equipment itself, provides transport personnel, trains training, line maintenance, hardware control. This is a particularly interesting perspective. Minister, while I understand the necessary discretion about the ongoing formation of this AGR cooperative corporation, are you aware of this initiative? Does this initiative receive support from SNCB? Are you prepared, on an experimental basis and as an example, to provide special support? How many companies are involved in this project, beyond Valvert? Are other company-to-rail connection initiatives currently underway? What is SNCB's policy towards them? I would like to conclude my speech by saying that we must make the most of the use of rail for our businesses, where possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u11	Madam President, Minister, Line 155 is a secondary road, connecting the Marbehan railway station to the Red Cross and also - through the forklift 289 - to the Valvert company, near Buzenol (Commune d'Etalle). At the beginning of 2016, the line, which has not seen a train pass since 2009, was deactivated by Infrabel, who no longer wanted to finance its maintenance. It comes to my mind, however, that this line could be reopened for private freight via a cooperative. Minister, are you aware of this project? Can you confirm that? If so, on what date and under what conditions will it be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u12	Mrs Poncelet, Infrabel put this line out of service at the end of 2015, on the basis of the fact that no train had been operating there for many years and that there was no prospect of a resumption of rail traffic in the immediate future. The Mobility & Transport FPS had been informed of this. As for the return to operation of the line, following a private initiative, I was informed that this application would come from the Argo Rail company. It is essential that the line is no longer part of Infrabel's railway network, a condition requiring ministerial approval. For the time being, I am not in possession of a related file, which is required for my services to consider this possibility. With respect to line 289, it joins line 155 and could be taken into account in the scenario of a return to service. Infrabel confirms to me that, in general, it is willing to offer the necessary expertise for initiatives made possible by the action of local railway operators. Consideration should be given to this issue by an ad hoc technical working group. Moreover, such assistance has already been provided in connection with other initiatives such as the Trilogiport connection of Liège or the restoration of the connection of two sites of the company Carmeuse to line 136, between Florennes and Aisemont. Also in this respect, Infrabel refers to its website where the information is provided in full transparency with a view to obtaining a connection to the railway network and the apportionment of costs. In this case too, a specific dossier seems to me to be the most appropriate way to allow consideration of the initiative which you refer to in the questions concerning these possibilities of reopening.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u13	Minister, thank you. You have cited two examples where a path has been reopened, including Carmeuse in Florennes, which I know well. I hope that, in this case, there will be a file and that a fruitful dialogue will be possible with Infrabel so that trains can quickly be put back on the rails to transport these bottles of water and any other goods by rail rather than by road. This is an interesting perspective, both economically and ecologically.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u14	I thank the Minister for his answer. Indeed, I thought a file had already been filed. The information we had already referred to a substantial analysis work on the ground. If there is an opportunity to meet with operators, encourage them to file this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u15	Mr Raskin, your next question is a joint question with Mr Van den Bergh. We've just heard he'll be arriving any minute. Is it good that you are waiting for your question No. 26564? [[Permission granted.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u16	Mr Minister, the Dutch coalition agreement of 2017 contains a short passage on the Hamont-Weert railway line, which reads as follows: "In line with the Belgian investment on the Antwerp-Hamont line, the subsequent route Hamont-Weert, co-financed by regional authorities, is activated for passenger trains." The Netherlands therefore seems willing to make the necessary investments to enable passenger transport on the Hamont-Weert route. Two studies have shown that there is a demand for this connection. First, the 2011 Movares study speaks of 450 passengers per day and a cost recovery rate of 47%. A 2014 need study by the Dutch province of Limburg even cites the figure of 1 200 commuters per day. Those two Dutch studies thus contradict the findings of SNCB, which had already carried out a study in 2005. Moreover, the context has changed considerably in recent years. Not only was the connection Antwerp-Neerpelt to Hamont extended. In 2017, the decision was also made to release money for electrification of the line from Mol to Hamont. In 2015, I asked your predecessor a question about the possible extension of the rail link to Weert. Her answer was very concise and showed little commitment. That is why I am once again asking you my questions today. Firstly, have you had any further discussions with your Dutch colleague on the matter recently? If so, what was the outcome of the consultation? Secondly, in view of the changed context and ambition in the Dutch coalition agreement, is SNCB today prepared to engage in the extension of railway line 19 to Weert? If not, what obstacles prevent SNCB from engaging in the project?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u17	Mr Raskin, there has recently been no consultation at political or administrative level on the extension of railway line 19 to Weert. Necessary investment in rail line 19 in both countries was indirectly addressed in the framework of the 3RX Steering Committee, which has studied several routes for the Iron Rhine and in which the administrations are represented. On the Belgian side, railway line 19 between Mol and the Dutch border will be fully electrified thanks to the funds released for strategic rail investment in Flemish territory in the cooperation agreement between the Federal State and the Flemish Region. According to Infrabel, the works on Belgian territory are on schedule and the works on electricity infrastructure will be ready by the end of 2020. The national transport plan of SNCB, starting in December 2020, will take this into account. For travellers from the north of Limburg a direct train service to Antwerp and Brussels will be possible without switching to Mol. Today, however, Infrabel has no insight into the planning of the Dutch infrastructure manager ProRail, with regard to the electricity infrastructure on Dutch territory between the Dutch border and Weert. If ProRail provides the railway line with electricity infrastructure on Dutch territory, SNCB will then, as is the case for all cross-border connections, have to study which rolling stock can be used, Homologated for both countries. It is also necessary to conclude an agreement with the NS on the financing of operating costs. We have heard that the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State, Stientje van Velthoven, is not yet convinced of the usefulness of building the railway line for the three countries, in the light of the cost-benefit analysis and financing. Perhaps a meeting between the three countries will be held.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u18	Minister, the decision taken in the multi-annual investment plan is a good one. I'm grateful for that. I also remember that the transport plan will take into account this changed situation in December 2020 and that this will benefit the train offer of the Limburg passenger. I am also grateful for that. I would like to make a comment about the fact that Infrabel has no idea of the Dutch plans today. I'm sure it is. On the other hand, the Dutch coalition agreement is clear. In this sense, I would argue that both Belgium and the Netherlands should not hide behind commitments that are or are not there. I believe that there is still a lot to study and that there is still a lot to be done about the costs. However, a cross-border rail link will be a good thing for our country, both for the Antwerp and for the Limburg passengers. It will also be an advantage for the Netherlands. So one has to sit down at the table and look one another in the eye to reach an agreement instead of hiding behind half or whole of the commitments of both countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u19	Madam President, Minister, I have already asked you a question about the three-country train, the direct train link between Aachen, Heerlen, Maastricht and Liège. This should take place from 2019, provided that all security and authorisation requirements are met. The commercial and operational aspects of the file were examined at the time of my earlier question. Following the submission of this question, consultations were held with the relevant authorities and partners. What are the results of that? A business case would have been prepared to analyse the financial feasibility of the file. What happened to that in the meantime? What were the conclusions of this business case? Is SNCB still willing to join that project? What timing does SNCB have in mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u20	Chairperson: Jef Van den Bergh. Finally, an important bottleneck concerned the safety system on the Dutch territory. In the meantime, has that bottleneck been solved? If so, which one? Were there any other bottlenecks identified?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u21	Minister, I agree with Mr Raskin's questions. I would like to hear the state of play on the tri-country train.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u22	Mr President, Mr Raskin, SNCB informs me that a number of additional elements that have an impact on costs have become apparent, such as the ranking of other trains at the Liège-Guillemins station to give the three-country train access to the platform. SNCB is currently integrating these elements into the business case. At present, the global business case is not yet known. The view of SNCB is well known, namely that the cost of the three-country train project for SNCB should not exceed the cost of the existing link between Liège and Maastricht. The global business case has not yet been completed and therefore has not yet been shared with the NS and Arriva, nor with SNCB's governing bodies. The German colleagues are not involved. Once the business case has been completed, it will be presented to the management bodies of SNCB and then discussed with the partners NS and Arriva. The approval of the Stadler Flirt that Arriva will use for this connection is the responsibility of the DVIS and is not discussed by the ETCS platform. The Flirt must be equipped with an appropriate safety system for the three countries. The DVIS is responsible for the accreditation in Belgium. The DVIS takes the decision on the safety system based on the 2015 KB, according to which all the new equipment deployed in Belgium will be equipped with the ETCS from 2015. Stadler submitted a preliminary approval file to the DVIS. SNCB adds that they assess each project on the following points: desirability and interest for potential customers, feasibility, manufacturing aspects and affordability of the business case. The first two points have been assessed positively. Only the business case, as has been said, needs to be completed and presented to the management bodies. Further planning and timing will be prepared in the following months. At least there are no other obstacles at present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I had hoped to have some insight into the timing, but I understand that you cannot give a sensible answer to that question today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u24	Mr President, Minister, I am asking you for the umpteenth time on this line which is one of the black lines in Wallonia if not throughout Belgium. Successive setbacks have occurred in recent years and are not negligible in the context of major delays. A large majority of the direct trains on the Quévy-Frameries-Brussels line were simply abolished. There is always, despite the many demands and commitments, a lack of precise communication when delays occur or, quite simply, a very basic communication announcing the trains. Even for this, this poses problems for this line at the stations of Quévy and Frameries. At the same time, many promises have been made to commuters, mostly in vain, which particularly irritates them. The point I raise today is that one of the two tracks has been replaced by concrete balls. It's been months. It was intended that the two tracks would be replaced, but only one was replaced, with an extremely low speed panel, which means that there is a complete lack of maintenance of one of the two lines. As a result, trains run at a very low speed and, moreover, delays are major. Who says major delay means abandoning the line on the part of travellers and, in the end, it is the vicious circle that leads the SNCB to move slowly but surely towards condemnation of the line. Here's my question: despite your promises, what about it? Why is one of the two tracks of this line clearly abandoned? If, in the end, the goal is to keep one track, you know as well as I do that this will have additional consequences for travellers. It seems to me important to stop making promises; the exact truth must be said. Either the SNCB makes the decision to maintain this line and it applies to it; or, you and SNCB have decided to abandon it, but then you have to be transparent and say it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u25	Dear colleague, Infrabel, infrastructure manager, tells me that the track 1 crossings on line 96 between Cuesmes and Quévy were indeed renewed in 2015. The track B crossings will be renewed in 2021. In addition, the signage was upgraded at the Quévy station in 2017 and the two tracks between Mons and Quévy will be equipped with ETCS limited supervision by 2019. This shows that Infrabrel continues to invest in this section. Infrabel states that it prepares its planning taking into account the condition of the tracks and the technical capacity at its disposal to carry out the necessary track renewal work. With regard to the latter point, she pointed out that she had only one train of track renewal work for the Belgian network as a whole. On the other hand, I hope that this will not have escaped you, the revival of the cross-border service which I have requested the restoration between Mons and Aulnoye-Aymeries will reassure you of the future of this line.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u26	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u27	Go watch your network, Mrs. Fonck. It's line 96.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u28	Minister, you are explaining to me that you are justifying this position. Six years apart to modify and maintain a minimum - go see the condition of the track: on one side concrete and on the other wood. You justify that we can wait until 2021. In the meantime, there is this famous yellow triangle with a 9 in the middle that you know well and that was placed very recently. It clearly demonstrates that trains must drastically reduce their speed because maintenance is not carried out. Despite this, you are explaining to me that there is no problem and that we can only wait until 2021. Your reasoning obviously doesn't stand the way. This simply reflects the fact that SNCB and Infrabel decide to postpone the matter until later, so that, in the meantime, they can justify that there are fewer and fewer passengers. They will have dropped out of the line because of increasingly frequent delays. In the end, it is the commuters that are penalized. I therefore request that this line be maintained as soon as possible. Otherwise, you will use this argument in a second step to close it because of a reduction in passengers. It is a nonsense about mobility. This station is accessible and ideally located because it allows to drain part of the Borinage. If we close or reduce this section more and more, we send all the users back to Mons. This means that the plugs are increased. Furthermore, there is no longer any access to the car park at the Mons station. He's all full time in rush hours. This is problematic, and it is a real nonsense about mobility. It is necessary to maintain sufficient and adequate maintenance for trains to run at normal speed and, above all, for passengers to benefit correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u29	I had an analysis done of the origin of the delays on the line between Quévy and Brussels. If you want it, I'll put it at your disposal. It is the alternations of continuous tracks at the Mons station, following the work to be completed, with the alternation of track 1, track 5, track 6, that cause the problems of delay. There are no delays related to the speed between Mons and Quévy. There is a problem at Mons station related to the alternation of work on different tracks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u30	It's factual. Look at this picture! For the report, I show the picture of the track and this sign that everyone who knows a little about SNCB and Infrabel will recognize. Look what that means! This means that this is a drastic reduction in speed due to a lack of track maintenance, Minister. It's all said!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u31	My railway employees are from Quévy. I know the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u32	Look at the picture!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u33	Do you know on which lines trains pass?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u34	Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u35	Mr Minister, I do not want to ask specific questions about all the lines in the province of Antwerp; my question is more generally about the services of SNCB in relation to punctuality. The problems are well known. On the one hand, the figures are not moving in the right direction, and that continues to worry us. On the other hand, there is the aspect of communication. With regard to punctuality, one can still say that the causes are very diverse. A number of causes lie with SNCB itself, but many causes lie with Infrabel and certainly with third parties; however, communication accounts for 100% of SNCB's competence and responsibility. This communication is still lacking, and I find that regrettable, especially given that we have been asking questions and making comments on it for years. It was then replied that this would be properly completed. Unfortunately, we have to note that the information is still inadequate. For example, there is a call for other information than the information on the screens; there is other information on the app than the information on the screens. They are compelling communication problems, despite all good intentions. Minister, I assume I can get the figures on punctuality in writing. With regard to communication, how does SNCB explain the alleged errors in communication in the event of a lack of service? Who's responsible here? How and when will communication eventually be put to the point? How does communication work when a train is restricted? Who will inform the train drivers and train escorts? What's the procedure? How is it possible that the communication of the train escorts differs from the practice, for example when there is a call for a limited train, while it eventually continues to the terminal station. Such situations are very irritating for travellers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u36	I will provide you with the figures on punctuality, the number of abandoned trains and the number of trains delayed during the last three months in the province of Antwerp. Why is there sometimes other information on the app than on the screens in the stations? In order to ensure better consistency of information through the different information channels, SNCB will have built up a central database by the end of 2018 that sends the information to all information channels. In the course of 2019, each information channel will draw on its data from the new central database, so that coherent and uniform information will be available. Why is information sometimes called on the train other than what can be seen on the app? It is not possible to send all the information that is forwarded to the app, also to the train supervisor. The train guide would be flooded with information. Therefore, SNCB sends the information to the train escorts on the basis of a number of parameters. In concrete terms, all train escorts passing through the scene of an incident within two hours will receive an automatic message. SNCB is investigating whether these parameters can be refined, so that the train supervisor has the most up-to-date information possible. When a train is restricted, the communication is as follows. The Central Passenger Dispatching of SNCB normally informs the train manager and the train driver if a train is restricted. In the event of an incident which seriously disturbs traffic, SNCB indicates that, under pressure from the circumstances, it is sometimes decided that a train still runs, despite the opposite being communicated to passengers. The train supervisor is not always informed in good time. SNCB is well aware of this shortcoming in its communication and is trying to remedy it. To this end, it shall take initiatives in the organisation of its communication to the train supervisor, as well as in the correct processing of the digital information for the benefit of the traveller.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. This shows that you are of good will and you are aware that there is still a lack of communication, which, of course, is a good basis. But you've recognized that many times before. It is now looking forward to the digital platform with which train guides may be able to provide better and more accurate information. The other aspect will be to convince and encourage train drivers to communicate the information to passengers in a good way. We note, however, that the train guides have been properly evaluated in recent years. They receive good points in all evaluations made. However, the train attendant often does not appear in crisis situations or serious incidents. There are therefore additional possibilities in this respect. A positive element that I would like to mention is that the renewed app is much more user-friendly and provides much better information than it used to be. So things are moving in the right direction. Let us hope that this progress also applies to the previous aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u38	Question No 26401 by Mr Van den Bergh is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u39	Mr Minister, my question was tabled after the first rail strike from 28 to 30 June. Unfortunately, in the meantime, a new rail strike is underway. From 28 to 30 June, the ACOD Spoor stopped because not all railway workers are on the list of heavy goods vehicles, a list which does not even officially exist. This strike was the first application of the law on guaranteed services, for which the legal basis was laid in this House. With the use of the willing staff, an alternative timetable was drawn up and communicated 24 hours in advance. From the reactions afterwards, we can conclude that the majority believe that the alternative timetable was well respected. Minister, how many staff members have made their decision to work or to cease working in good time? How much isn't? How many gifts to want to strike? How many gifts to want to work on? How many of those who volunteered to work have worked in the end? For those who didn't, what was the reason? How do you evaluate the implementation of the guaranteed service? Were there any significant problems in implementation? Is the guaranteed service evaluated by SNCB? Are there any results of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u40	Minister, for the first time, on Friday, June 29 and Saturday, June 30, 2018, the SNCB implemented the guaranteed service in the event of a strike. It was planned that one in three trains would drive. This service will be implemented on Tuesday 10 and Wednesday 11 July. Minister, how did the negotiations with the social partners take place for the implementation of the guaranteed service mechanism as voted by Parliament? How do you assess this first operationalization of the minimum service? To what extent have users trusted the announced alternative transport plan and taken the train? On Friday 29th, trains on the Brussels-Namur line experienced very serious delays, which were constantly changing from 30 minutes to more than an hour, then decreasing and sometimes leading to the cancellation of the train. This appears to be due to cable theft and reduced response capacity as a result of the strike. Despite the alternative transportation plan announced the previous day, SNCB was unable to provide any predictability to travellers on this line. What are the problems encountered during the guaranteed service? Are these youth diseases in the new system or are they symptomatic of systemic problems? Have the problems encountered on Friday been resolved on Saturdays? Will they be resolved for the next strike? Can you assure us that the guaranteed service will take place as scheduled at the next strike, on Tuesday 10 and Wednesday 11 July?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u41	I would like to endorse the requested evaluation of the initial application of the guaranteed service. This morning I took the train myself to Brussels, and that went without a hitch. The information from the app was consistent with the service provided, to the extent that I made use of it. My questions concern the application of the previous strike from 28 to 30 June 2018. Will it be evaluated by the Minister and SNCB? Has SNCB been able to provide a train offer that was previously communicated? To what extent did this happen? How many employees finally stopped? How many employees couldn't take scheduled leave? I understand that a number of days of leave have been withdrawn, including a long time ago, in order to ensure that the service is guaranteed as far as possible. We must be careful not to cause additional irritation and irritation to the staff. How many employees had to switch shifts to provide the guaranteed service? How many employees were employed at a different depot than usual? When were employees told they couldn't take leave or switch shifts or depots?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u42	The strike from 28 to 30 June 2018 was based on the ACOD-CGSP and related to the file of the heavy-duty professions. On the basis of the information available to me at the moment, I think I can conclude that the first test for the guaranteed service has been carried out fairly smoothly. First of all, on Friday 29 June 1 407 trains actually travelled. That's about 40 percent of a normal train service on Friday. On Saturday 30 June there were 1 195 trains, which is half of a normal train service on Saturday. On Friday, 6 trains and 19 trains were abolished on Saturday, including by disease reports. As far as SNCB staff are concerned, SNCB informs me as follows: "On 29 and 30 June, respectively, 3,764 and 1,273 SNCB staff went on strike". More precise information on staff who participated or did not participate in the strike is not available at present. SNCB is working on this. Among the number of employees who took part in the strike, a distinction must of course be made between those who belong to or do not belong to the so-called essential occupational categories. Secondly, the formal questioning of the intentions of participating or not in the strike has, of course, concerned only the staff who belong to the essential occupational categories and were scheduled to come to work. As soon as this was the case, these staff were no longer granted leave for the announced strike days. You also ask me about the number of employees who had to change shifts. The alternative train service set up by SNCB is by definition different from the normal train service. The driving staff must therefore de facto change their service. SNCB does, however, ensure that the starting and end hours of such alternative services differ as little as possible from the hours initially planned. The hours of service to be performed were communicated to the staff between 60 and 24 hours in advance. As far as the Infrabel staff are concerned, Infrabel tells me: "The procedure has made it possible for all signal booths to be operational. In fact, this means that Infrabel was able to guarantee railway operators traffic for trains during the strike movement. In order to do so, it is envisaged that the railway personnel employed in the essential functions must indicate their intention to participate in the strike movement or not. For Infrabel, the declarations of the staff concerned announced a strike rate of around 24% by 29 June and 12% by 30 June. However, these data are likely to change further." Workers on leave on the duty roster were not obliged to withdraw or give up that leave. No one was forced to change shifts. Some of Infrabel's employees did this on a voluntary basis. The number of people who changed due to the strike cannot be traced because of the constant exchange of standards within the regulatory framework. I repeat that, for more precise information on the number of participants in SNCB and Infrabel, it is provisionally awaiting consultation with the help of HR Rail at the level of the railway group as regards the Brussels-Namur line. In addition to the strike itself, traffic was effectively negatively impacted by a major cable theft but also by a person on the tracks near Buda Station. These two incidents, caused by third parties, are unrelated to the organization of the guaranteed service. As far as today's day is concerned, trains on IC lines are mostly rolling. It is the same organisation as during the strikes from 28 to 30 June last. The announced offer of trains is well present. The service seems to be working. The pragmatic solution that I proposed to our committee in Parliament shows its usefulness and, finally, at the departure of the people available, we can announce twenty-four hours in advance the necessary and indispensable train offer for those who, on strike days, have to move. The right to strike is well respected, as well as the right to move which, in my view, is such a fundamental right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for this state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'll read them carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u45	Minister, I can only agree with that. It may be continued in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u46	The combined questions numbers 26432 and 26442 of ladies Lahaye-Battheu and Dumery are withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u47	Mr President, Minister, Belgian drone legislation is very young. The possibilities in this sector are increasing by the hour. An initial assessment of the Royal Decree of 25 April 2016 was made in June 2017. This showed that a number of technical points had to be reconsidered or defined. Other points require an evaluation before any decision can be taken. You decided to set up a technical working group to invite the first-line actors of the sector such as the Directorate-General for Aviation, Belgocontrol and Defence, but also specialists from the sector as representatives of Belgian drone users. The working group was to meet for the first time on 9 November 2017. The following themes would be addressed: the automation of the processing of applications, the conditions to be met in order to obtain authorisation for an operation in a controlled CTR zone or in a zone with special or limited activities, the conditions under which a flight may be carried out in urban areas or in crowded areas, the framework for urgent interventions, the status of test pilot, the test site, the conditions for carrying out a test flight with a prototype and for conducting research into industrial and technical drone developments. I would like to have an update on the work of the technical working group. How many times have they come together? Is there an end date planned? Which of the above issues have already been discussed in the working group? What was the conclusion, if any? Are there any changes to the Royal Decree? If so, which one? What's the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u48	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, under my impulse, a structural dialogue was established between the various actors in the sector and the public authorities. In June 2017, a first meeting with everyone was held for an evaluation of the Belgian drone regulations. The working group also met in November, December and January. The various themes, as also listed by you, were discussed. However, the original objective of preparing a possible amendment to the Royal Decree of 10 April 2016 was crossed by the creation of a European regulatory framework on drones and drone operations. My administration has therefore been a priority to monitor this regulatory process at European level and to identify the possible consequences for the existing Belgian regulatory framework. This analysis was also central to the various contacts with the sector. Depending on the date of entry into force of the new European regulations and the substantive rules and regulations on drones and drone operations, my administration will, after consulting the working group, consider how the Belgian royal decree will have to be adapted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u50	Minister, I asked you in a parliamentary question of 19 June 2018 about the reason for not making sufficient Blue bike seats available. Due to a shortage of space, daily travellers miss a Blue-bike. The next question was what the future of Blue-bike would be if SNCB did not offer any guarantees here. Is a subscription stop inserted, for example? Your answer was remarkable, in the sense that a downright wrong interpretation of the figures was given. SNCB apparently informed you that only 30% of Blue Bike users are rail passengers. In BiTiBi's European study, which is publicly available and quotes Blue-bike on its website, the url is included in my question "93 %." The 30% you quote through SNCB is the modal shift. This means that more than 30% of Blue Bike users have taken the train thanks to Blue Bike and thus provides additional revenue. They would have previously done or not done the relocation by car. This study even states that Blue-bike has a positive effect on bicycle parking pressure, given that 9% of users claim to have previously had their own bicycle at the post-transport station. In the meantime, the VVSG has raised the alarm about this incomprehensible vision and attitude in writing to you and the management of SNCB. This time, I would like to hear your own opinion, not the answer sent to you by SNCB, which proved to be completely inadequate. Mr Minister, my questions are as follows. Firstly, can you confirm that SNCB misinterpreted the figures of the available studies and based its policy on them? Secondly, in the light of the government agreement which clearly states that intermodality between train and bicycle needs to be improved, do you think that SNCB should always provide sufficient space for Blue bikes to meet passengers' demand where necessary? If so, what will you do to ensure that this is done in practice? If not, why not and how do you expect to sell the company behind Blue-bike? Thirdly, what will you do to finally complete this dossier so that Blue-bike can grow back and convince more people to take the train?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u51	I am happy to support the questions put by our colleague. Between the submission of the questions and the questioning here in committee, there has been additional news. The sale of SNCB shares has been on hold for a long time, but last week an agreement was reached between a subsidiary of De Lijn and SNCB on the acquisition of SNCB shares. However, the board of directors of both De Lijn and SNCB still have to approve that agreement. This would finally put an end to the uncertainty that has existed for a long time and the brake that that meant on the further growth of Blue Mobility and the Blue Bikes. Just before the acquisition last week, several municipal authorities sent an open letter through the VVSG in which they were concerned about the future of Blue-bike. They doubt, for example, the way in which the NCAS intends to assume its responsibility to give the Blue Bikes every opportunity. For example, SNCB representatives would claim that up to one third of Blue Bike users are SNCB customers, as Mr Van Hecke has already mentioned. That claim is clearly incorrect and I think it is important that this is corrected here. Another claim by SNCB is that the Blue-bikes cause additional bicycle parking pressure in overcrowded bicycle sheds. I think the opposite is true, because the Blue-bikes are much more used than the other bikes in the stalls at the stations, which means that Blue-bikes, when the sum is made, take less place in proportion. Part bikes can therefore provide extra space in bike park first class rather than vice versa, as is sometimes claimed. I think it would be good if all this takeover saga led to a clear situation. Then we can focus on the core tasks of SNCB, which I do not entirely agree with, but that choice has been made. Following that acquisition, SNCB must also show sufficient goodwill. Even if SNCB is no longer a shareholder of Blue-bike, full cooperation must be given to bike operators such as Blue-bike, who provide additional train passengers. This cooperation must be properly developed. Minister, what is the state of play and the further timing of this sale? How do you respond to the open letter from the Association of Flemish Cities and Municipalities? How did SNCB react to this? Can the figure quoted, according to which only one third of the Blue Bike users are SNCB customers, be corrected? I think that's important. How will SNCB behave in the future with regard to the Blue Bikes? Will SNCB provide sufficient sites for bicycle storage or parking for Blue bikes?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, the figures available to SNCB show that 30% of Blue-bike customers take the train when a Blue-bike is available at the station of arrival. The figures show that 30% of Blue-bike customers are new train passengers who chose the train because there was a Blue-bike available at the station of arrival. The 2016 European BiTiBi.eu research project also confirms that 32% of Blue Bike users are new train passengers. In the context of the sale of SNCB's shares within Blue Mobility, a cooperation agreement will determine the presence of the bicycle system in or around a station. Blue-bike will keep its presence in and around the stations such as Cambio and other intermodal services. SNCB is always seeking a balance between the space for intermodal services such as Blue-bike, whose customers are not always rail passengers, and the space for bike parking for rail passengers. That space is not unlimited, so that an extension can not always be granted when the parking is full, for example. Train passengers who take the train daily will not use the Blue Bike service daily. Blue-bike is more focused on occasional train users at a cost of 3.15 euros a day. The train subscribers will rather come to the station with their own bike. However, SNCB's ambition is to significantly increase the number of bicycle sheds over the next few years, again in the context of multimodality. In the context of these extensions, SNCB will also provide places for Blue-bikes. There is an agreement between De Lijn and SNCB: The Line will buy the shares of SNCB. All necessary administrative steps will be taken by September.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u53	Minister, I think it is important that you put the figures in the right context and that SNCB has provided you with a correct interpretation of the figures. Indeed, 30% of Blue Bike users took the train thanks to the Blue Bike and provided extra revenue and additional train journeys. You have confirmed that there has recently been an agreement between the Line and SNCB. I think this is very important and you should not underestimate the impact of a well-functioning Blue bike system on attracting new customers and intermodality, switching from one means of transport to another. A further investment in Blue bike systems, you also referred to Cambio and the like, is a track that SNCB should continue to use, or should certainly facilitate, when organised by others. I hope that SNCB will be able to take that path further and that the Blue-bike can grow further in a new structure, with a new owner. This would also be very good for preventing congestion and indirectly improving air quality.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u54	Minister, I am largely in agreement with Mr Van Hecke. I can also tell you that Friday will open the 55th Blue Bikestation in our country, and this in my own municipality. The municipality has invested heavily in this, taking into account everything, although it has been a year and a half about signing the agreement and being able to offer the bicycles effectively. This had a lot to do with the brake on the growth of Blue Mobility because of the uncertainty surrounding the shareholdership. I am therefore pleased that this has been concluded and I hope, and am counting on, that SNCB will be sympathetic to providing sufficient space for Blue bike bikes in the future. I think it is clear to everyone that these bicycles are a particularly important asset for post-transport, not pre-transport, which greatly extends the range of activities of the train user and thus also increases the attractiveness of the train as a means of transport. It is one of the means of transport which takes the least place and which can be provided around a station. So I think that we should be sufficiently sympathetic about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u55	Mr President, Minister, the law requires motorists to hold a certificate of registration, a green card, a technical inspection and a certificate of compliance, all of which are – well known – an ideal target for unscrupulous thieves. They often only have to break the window of the vehicle to get their hands on these papers, most of the time stored in the glove box, and then feed an illegal car sales network. I am well aware that the registration certificate now has a "home" part to guarantee that the vehicle does belong to the holder of the document, but parallel markets persist. This situation could be easily avoided if the documents were not stored almost systematically in vehicles, but carried away by motorists even when they leave their vehicles. That said, even if some very predictable people do, the documents are cumbersome, they can be damaged or more easily lost. Minister, have you ever considered digitizing on-board documents with – why not? – storage of these documents on a secure medium such as digital ID card?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u56	Dear colleague, your question concerns the digitisation of all the documents on board on a secure medium such as the identity card in order to avoid the feeding of an illegal car sales network. As far as certificates of conformity and technical inspection are concerned, these documents are no longer within my competence since the sixth reform of the State, but rather those of the Regions. The same applies to the Green Card of the competence of my colleague from the Economy. As you point out, since September 1, 2013, the certificate of registration is made up of two parts. As a result, fraudulent practices have become much more difficult. Thus, the holding of a single part of the certificate of registration will not allow the registration of another vehicle. Belgian and foreign registration services will automatically request the second part. As for the storage of this document on the identity card, I do not think it is feasible. For example, Council of Europe Directive 1999/37/EC of 29 April 1999 on vehicle registration documents expressly provides for the technical data to be mentioned, but also that this document accompanies the vehicle when it is resold and not the person. Therefore, it is necessarily a separate document. In addition, the validity of these two documents is not necessarily the same, which would imply a more frequent change in the vehicle owner's identity card. The digitization of the certificate is already carried out since the holder's personal data and the vehicle's technical data are stored in a computer application of the IVD called MOBIVIS. In the event of theft of the paper certificate, the holder must notify the police who will inform the flight in the IVD data bank. This information is then reflected in the European computer system for registration documents called EUCARIS. This system is used not only by Belgian and foreign police and customs authorities, but also by all European registration services connected to it. Again, this will prevent the registration of another vehicle with this certificate as it will already be reported stolen. In conclusion, I do not exclude my administration from considering the digitalisation of the certificate, but it must do so with all these European partners. Between the solution that you propose and that of today, I therefore think that a path is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u57	Minister, in your most recent policy paper, you said that a review of the compensation for the use of railway infrastructure is under way. You said that a new system should enter into force by the end of this year. The following conditions shall apply: the national supply of trains must be able to evolve in a balanced manner; regional and suburban supply must not be disadvantaged; rail freight must not be discouraged by this system; there must be legal clarity on the so-called additional fees; these must be justified on the basis of the demand for and availability of the lanes; and performance in the station must also be included in the fee. In the meantime, it's almost mid-July. My questions are as follows. Firstly, what is the state of play on this announced revision of the infrastructure fee? Can you give an insight into the main lines of action? Secondly, will the timing of introducing this new fee, at the end of 2018, be feasible? When do you think you can bring up the royal decision in the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u58	Infrabel's Board of Directors agreed to the approach taken in the context of the infrastructure fee review. The draft Royal Decree on the revision of the remuneration of the use of railway infrastructure will shortly be submitted to the Government. KB's draft has yet to be submitted for advice to, inter alia, the regional governments and the Council of State. Before their opinion is sought, it will be submitted to the Council of Ministers for its opinion. The timing remains feasible in order to have the KB ready in time to implement a full revised usage fee in 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for the answer and the state of play. You say that the timing of the end of 2019 will remain feasible, with the entire prior procedure. I hope that this important reform will remain on track and that the KB will soon be submitted for advice to the government and will hopefully be adopted afterwards and there will be no noise.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u60	For the sake of completeness, all other questions will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u61	Mr President, Minister, ambulances, firefighters and police cars often have to go out in emergency situations that count every second. It is therefore important to know how to act as a road user if priority vehicles are to be encountered and what traffic rules apply to these vehicles. Vias last week announced the results of a survey carried out among a thousand people on the knowledge of the rules on priority vehicles. This shows that six out of ten Belgians have had to step aside for a priority vehicle in the last month. However, the survey also shows that a quarter of drivers do not know exactly what to do, especially on motorways. Only one Belgian out of five knows exactly what the rights and obligations of a priority vehicle are in an urgent intervention, namely that flashing light and siren must be on and that the priority vehicle must stop before crossing the intersection. Minister, how do you respond to the results of this survey? Can you explain why these rules are so little known? Is there a need for a awareness campaign?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u62	Mr President, all drivers know that when they hear the siren of a priority vehicle, they must immediately step aside, give priority and, if necessary, stop. What the drivers are experiencing, and this has also been highlighted in the Vias survey, which is what they need to do in practice in order to pave the way. A press conference was held on 5 July to present the results of the Vias survey on knowledge of traffic rules in relation to priority vehicles. On this occasion, the traffic rules were recalled and firefighters were able to bear witness to the difficulties they face in daily traffic. Also the drivers were given practical advice not to suddenly brake, not to block intersections, not to stop on the road or in a bend. Traffic rules are also spread through social networks. Promotion campaigns in traffic matters are a regional competence. The suitability of awareness campaigns should therefore be decided by the Ministers of the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u64	This brings us to the end of our work. I wish everyone a nice match, later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic949x.u65	Mr President, it was the last committee meeting before the summer recess.
