ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u1	The meeting was opened at 2.18 p.m. and chaired by Siegfried Bracke. The meeting was called to order at 2.18 p.m. and chaired by Mr. Siegfried Bracke.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u2	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u3	A series of communications and decisions must be notified to the Chamber. They shall be included on the website of the Chamber and in the Annex to the integral report of this meeting. A series of communications and decisions must be brought to the attention of the House. They will be included on the House's website and included in the annex to the full record of this sitting. At the opening of the meeting, the Ministers of the Federal Government: Ministers of the Federal Government present at the opening of the sitting: Charles Michel, Kris Peeters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u4	Philippe Blanchart, Véronique Caprasse, Anne Dedry, Maya Detiège, Catherine Fonck, Vanessa Matz, Barbara Pas, Fatma Pehlivan, Ine Somers, Karin Temmerman, Evita Willaert, for health reasons/ for health reasons; Kattrin Jadin, for duty / for mandate duties; Roel Deseyn, Benoît Piedboeuf, OECD / OCDE. Federal Government/ Federal government: Alexander De Croo, with shipment abroad (Ghana) / on mission abroad (Ghana); Zuhal Demir, maternity leave / maternity leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u5	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Colleagues, Alfred Léonard, a former member of the House of Representatives, died on 26 January in Banneux, at the age of 77 years. Alfred Léonard was born in Liège and from 1965, after graduating as a regent, he taught history at the Petit Séminaire de Saint-Roch in Ferrières. Elected communal councillor for the Social-Christian Party in 1977, he immediately became mayor of Ferrières. In the same year, he was also elected to the provincial council of Liège. Alfred Léonard joined the national political career in October 1985. In addition, in the meantime, he became president of the association of PSC agents of the district of Liège and collaborated in the cabinet of Wallon Minister Melchior Wathelet. For six years he was MP for the Hoei-Borgworm arrondissement. He was a member of the National Education and Culture Committee, the Infrastructure Committee and the Finance Committee. From 1988 to 1991 he was Vice-President of the Office of the Walloon Regional Council. After the end of his mandate as mayor, in December 1992, he spent two years in Romania, where he worked for the "Opération Villages Roumains." Alfred Léonard was re-elected communal councillor at Ferrières in 1995. He joined the Movement of Christian Progressives in 2000 and, as an opening candidate on the PS list, he was elected provincial councillor of the province of Liège for the second time. In an effort to devote more time to his five children and twelve grandchildren, Alfred Léonard ended his political career in October 2006. On behalf of the Chamber, I have expressed our sincere condolences to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u6	Mr President, the government wishes to join the Assembly in paying tribute to Mr Alfred Léonard, a former member of the House of Representatives. An active member of the Social-Christian Party, he led a well-filled political career, during which he was able to put his many qualities at the service of the population. A teacher of training, very committed locally, he won the Mayoral scarf in his town of Ferrières. He was mayor until 1992 and then decided to devote himself fully to various projects in Romania, a country to which he was very attached. In the early 2000s, Alfred Léonard will run for the last time as a candidate for the provincial elections, in Liège, on an opening list led by the Socialist Party. On behalf of the government, I wish to extend our deepest condolences to his family and loved ones. We wish to express our support for them in these sad moments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u7	May I ask you to observe a moment's silence in memory of our late colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u8	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 February 2018, you have received the list of oral questions by mail. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 February 2018, you have received by e-mail the list of oral questions. Paper versions are available at the entrance to the Chamber for those Members who wish to do so. The chairmen of the political groups shall continue to receive a paper version. Copies are, however, available at the entrance to the room for members who wish to do so. Group leaders will continue to receive a hard copy. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u9	Mr Prime Minister, last weekend there was great unrest at Zaventem airport because of rumours that Brussels Airlines would suffer the same fate as Sabena. Fortunately, this has not happened and we have heard reassuring statements from the Eurowings CEO, but the questions remain. Although he said that it would not be a Ryanair scenario, that there would be no social massacre, that the hybrid model with cheap flights in Europe would continue to exist on the one hand and long-distance flights to Africa and North America on the other, he explicitly stated that there would be no short-term changes. That is why I would like to ask you whether you have been in contact with the leadership of Eurowings or Lufthansa, so that Zaventem remains at least a hub, so that Brussels Airlines remains a home carrier and, after all, employment is guaranteed at least 3 700 employees in the long term. Do you have guarantees about the name of society and how integration into Eurowings will take place? I am asking you these questions, because you will no doubt have been in contact with the Lufthansa and Eurowings summits. A second part of my question concerns anchoring. We read reports today in all sorts of newspapers and last weekend Belgian CEOs advocated anchoring, but in 2016 the companies that now call for anchoring Brussels Airlines sold their own shares. Lufthansa had 45 %, 55% was owned by Belgian entrepreneurs, banks and for a part of the government through the Federal Participation and Investment Company. Those shares were then bought by Lufthansa. KLM and Air France are also merged, but they are equal partners. In this case, 100% of Brussels Airlines is owned by Lufthansa. Do we not miss an anchoring strategy for such operations in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u10	Prime Minister, yesterday morning, the CEO of Eurowings and the new CEO of Brussels Airlines met with union representatives as well as the company's workers with the aim of dispelling the concerns widely shared by the employers as well as by the unions. These relate to employment, the future of the company and the position of the Belgian company in the European sky. According to the two officials, through a pooling of activities between the two companies, Brussels would become a centre of excellence for long-haul, as the Eurowings group did not yet operate such flights. The Belgian company would therefore remain under the Brussels Airlines label for some time as a home carrier for our country for both the medium and long-haul. In fact, for the time being, managers want to be reassuring: there is no social plan or collective redundancies affecting the company's 3,500 employees. They even announce recruitments for navigating personnel. They announced that this would be growing and that the Brussels Airport site could become the hub for flights mainly to the large African market for the Lufthansa Group. For the rest, it will be necessary to wait until mid-March, the date of the next visit of the CEO of Eurowings, to know the exact modalities and contours of this economic project which will be deployed in our country. Prime Minister, you have been very active on this issue for a long time. With regard to your recent contacts with the leaders of the Lufthansa Group, this issue is important for our economy as well as for employment in Belgium. Notwithstanding the confidentiality of the exchanges you have had in the last few days, can we be informed of any elements in relation to the Belgian anchoring or the future development of the company?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u11	Mr President, an airline is of strategic importance to our country, our image and our attractiveness. Therefore, the Government considers that it is particularly important to closely monitor the situation of SN Brussels Airlines and its cooperation with Lufthansa. Some elements of retroacts. It was from 2008 that the decision in principle was taken to allow Lufthansa to activate, when it decided, an option allowing it to buy back Brussels Airlines. It was in 2016, eight years later, that Lufthansa made the decision to activate this option, which had been granted to Lufthansa in 2008. In this context, I had the opportunity in 2016 to increase contacts, on behalf of the government, with the leaders of Lufthansa to consider the strategy to be deployed from Brussels, leaving SN Brussels Airlines. And I have also multiplied the exchanges with the federated entities concerned – some were – through this strategy in connection with Lufthansa. A few days ago, we took note of the resignation of the CEO and the CFO, but there were also rumours, as you rightly said, about social effects or damage and problematic decisions. We've been trying to gather information. Last weekend I had a telephone call with Lufthansa's CEO, Mr Spohr. That offered me the opportunity to make it clear that it is a matter of crucial importance for us and that we will use all the means to defend our strategic interests. We also have instruments in our hands for this. We have also agreed to have a new contact very quickly. We plan to see each other very soon. A new meeting is scheduled with the CEO of Lufthansa and with the new management. I can assure you that we will make every effort to consolidate SN Brussels Airlines' position - and this seems to be the case - towards Africa and the connections to Africa, and to strengthen its capacity to North America and India as well. Positive decisions have been taken recently. The key point you mentioned is the intra-European situation. We must check intra-Europeanly that integration with Eurowings includes a strategy that is compatible with the interests we want to defend. I will have the opportunity to continue contacts and to inform Parliament regularly. In a word, we are vigilant. We are alert and remain very determined to defend our country's interests on this important issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u12	Mr Prime Minister, it is indeed important that you, as head of government, have contact with the Eurowings and Lufthansa summits. After all, there was a great deal of unrest. We now know that the hybrid model with cheaper European flights and long-distance flights to Africa and America is protected. They will even create a centre of expertise here. I am sticking to my point, in the sense that in 2016 Lufthansa was actually given free rein by letting them take over 100% of the shares. The managers, the CEOs and through the FPIM also the government made that decision. The Netherlands is much more sensible in this respect. They have a much better anchoring strategy for their businesses. If one no longer has the decision-making centres and gives them out of their hands, then one is totally dependent. This is another file that comes up. So I would ask the government to consider this anchoring strategy. We must consider how best to achieve this, not only through the government but also through the CEOs. The latter are alarming now, but two years ago they sold all their shares themselves. I therefore believe that we are very weak in this respect. I am also a resident of Zaventem and we know what the interest of the airline is there. We also know the trauma Sabena left behind. The government must take the lead in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u13	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. Your involvement is obviously important in the context we have just described. Brussels Airlines is the second largest growth hub in our country with Zaventem Airport. This dossier is therefore not only essential for the economic development of Belgium and the Brussels Region, but it is also particularly important in symbolic terms. It is also the future of a large company in our country that is being played out. We will be paying close attention, with you, to developments in the situation and, in particular, to the employment implications and Belgian anchoring of the airline.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u14	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the date of February 14 is fast approaching. In the case of the replacement of the F-16s, it is on that date that the best offers of the two agencies that are still in competition are due: the American F-35 and the British Typhoon. The French proposal for a broad military and economic partnership outside this procedure is still pending. More truly, if I believe the Minister of Defence, who seems to have already made his decision. He told me yesterday, and I quote: "My position has not changed with regard to French approaches. I have not received a legal opinion contradicting the two previous opinions. In short, the French offer is out." It must be noted that the objective of a true Europe of defence is not shared by your government as a whole. The industrial interests of our country, especially the French-speaking interests, are completely absent from your radars, as they are in the entire military programming law. This is also confirmed by the response of your Minister of Economy two days ago. At the beginning of November, drawn between your Minister of Foreign Affairs and the very Atlanticist Minister of Defence, you told me, on the subject of the French offer, that you continued the legal analysis and that, when the time came, it would be a political assessment. Prime Minister, now is the time. I would therefore like to know the answers to these questions. What is your government's unanimous position on the French offer? Do you confirm your defence minister's position, and therefore the fact that there is only one impeccable American candidate and another "brexiter" remaining in the competition, de facto? What about the societal impact on our regions? Will you reopen the procedure to inject more Europe into it again?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u15	The way in which your question is asked, honourable Member, is evidence of imperfect or incomplete knowledge of how the government is dealing with this issue. I want to highlight a first point. As early as December, we decided to take an important step forward with many European defence partners. Belgium will play a very important role in concrete and strategic operational partnerships, in which budgetary resources will have to be mobilised in the coming years. The objective will be to strengthen the capacity to stimulate a common defence organization strategy. Secondly, you seem to be unaware that, for example, the government has decided to develop a partnership for rolling stock with our French neighbour because we consider this to be a wise, strategic choice to strengthen - with a very important financial stake - the economic impact and the effects for a number of companies present in our country. This is a second point, Madam, which you seem to be ignoring. Thirdly, we have indeed made a choice that has not always been made in the past. We have opted for a transparent competition procedure in the context of the replacement of F-16s. Indeed, in the past, our country has been struck by a number of cases that have shown great opacity in military markets. We therefore wanted to set up a procedure under which different agencies have the right to participate or not. And, as you mentioned, two state agencies made the choice to participate. For your information, the Eurofighter is a project – it is true – carried out by the British with the participation of Italy, Germany and Spain. In addition, there is a procedure which, at each stage, leads to legal analyses at the outset of the government to be discussed within the Council of Ministers. On February 14, Valentine's Day – it's a coincidence – is an important day because it is the date when final offers will have to be submitted so that the agencies in charge of the analysis can prepare a report. It will take a number of weeks. When the report is prepared, all the topics will come to the government table. You seem to suggest that Mr Steven Vandeput's speech is different from mine; that is not the case. But it is true that, for the time being, the French have not participated in the procedure that has been implemented. This is a fact that no one can dispute. However, in due course, the whole case will be submitted to the government with the offers that have been introduced under the procedure and the various proposals for strategic partnerships.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u16	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. As usual, you show contempt to hide your discomfort with this file and the fact that once again the N-VA wipes its feet on you and your function. I confirm what I said. [[(....( )): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to listen to Mrs Fernandez.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u18	I confirm that Defence Europe is not a priority for you or your government. At least now things are clear. Despite your belly dance, everyone understood that the French offer was out of the way. Therefore, the Brexit offer remains, on the one hand, and Trump's offer, which is almost twice as expensive as announced. So you are taking Belgium and the future generations of Belgians on a path that will not contribute to an integrated European Defence, when we are talking about issues that will cost our country billions of euros. Whatever the nature (air, land or sea) of the massive investments planned, the industrial interests of research and development and, above all, the use of our different regions are not your concern, since even hearing the Regions in committee is a problem for you. It must be that, Prime Minister, the embarrassment!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u19	Colleagues, I repeat, the incident is closed. Mr Wouters' question is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, the European sling is going crazy. The euro partition, of course with Verhofstadt in the lead, is even before elections take place.They will only take place in 2019 to distribute the posts. The idea is to distribute it through a system of Spitzen candidates. The European Parliament is also throwing the money through windows and doors. 73 seats have been released by the Brexit; 27 of these seats are now being redistributed among the remaining Member States. Of the remaining 46 seats, 30 wanted to be retained for a European constituency. It is already very good that the European Parliament voted away that proposal and that the system did not succeed. The question remains, however, what will we do with the 46 seats? Moreover, the political parties in the European Parliament receive an additional EUR 17 million to conduct election campaigns. The European Parliament costs us EUR 2 billion a year. Then there's Turkey. I think we all agree that Erdogan's Turkey cannot join the European Union. You yourself advocated a freeze on these accession negotiations. However, if we look at the EU budget, we find that EUR 500 million is still going to Turkey every year. We think that's money thrown away. I would have liked to have heard your views on this, Prime Minister. There is already an enlargement of the European Union to include six Balkan countries by 2025. However, these are very unstable countries, as I see it. It's a region with a lot of tension. I would just like to mention the conflict between Macedonia and Greece over the name. My question is what this enlargement will cost us, since Belgium is already the second largest contributor with EUR 533 per citizen per year. The British contribution, which was also quite large, is falling, while the Balkan states would join. In my view, this means that our citizens will have to contribute more. Mr Prime Minister, I would have liked to know in particular what position you will take on 23 February in relation to the Spitzen candidates, how you see the enlargement of Europe and whether you agree that Belgium will have to contribute more to the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are many questions. We have the opportunity in the European Affairs Committee to discuss regularly the strategy that the government is pursuing in the area of the European Union. However, very soon some answers. First point, the division of seats. There is indeed a debate on this at European level. We are active in this and we are following this discussion on a permanent basis. In Belgium, we are trying to reach a consensus on this. We agree that we should not lose seats in Belgium in this regard. On the basis of the dynamics at European level, we will determine what positions we can take in this discussion. Secondly, the transnational lists. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, a decision was taken by the European Parliament. As far as this is concerned, that case is in order. We will follow Parliament's choice. The only way not to follow them would be through a unanimous decision of the European Council. This is clearly not going to be a fact. Thirdly, Turkey. I have explained the government's position on Turkey at least ten times in this assembly. I haven't changed my mind. I stand by the view that Turkey should not enter into a process of accession to the European Union. On the contrary, strategic cooperation is needed, which involves a different approach. An accession process is not the appropriate framework for relations with Turkey. Fourth point, the Western Balkans. A report from the European Commission has become available two or three days ago. A further report is expected for April. We will take note of these reports, but at least we do not agree with the European Commission's approach to a certain timetable. The Commission has created the idea that a timetable should be respected, but that is not our vision. What matters are the criteria. That is, of course, a different approach. In any case, we will take note of the various reports and study them. The budgetary strategy is still an important question. In parallel with the Brexit negotiations, we will be following the negotiations step by step with the other European countries and the Länder in the coming months and defending our country's interests, including in the financial field.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u22	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your explanation, but I would have liked to know the position on the Spitzen candidates. You will have to give a ruling on this on 23 February. I'm looking forward to that. Our point of view is: Brexit means exit. That is why we believe that the 73 seats should simply be abolished, because that is a saving of several millions. As far as Turkey is concerned, we are following you, but we believe that this contribution of EUR 500 million per year may disappear. That is also a nice saving that no one feels. When we talk about enlargement, I follow you, Prime Minister, when you say that we should look at the criteria and not stick to timing. Europe must look at itself. We have not proved too much lately, when we look at the refugee crisis, when we look at the Greek euro problem and so on. If it is up to us, Europe must be less, more efficient and respect the sovereignty of the Länder and the regions. I think it is high time for the Member States to look at what they want to do together. That is perhaps also the time for Belgium to look at what we still want to do together, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u23	Mr Minister, I do not know if, on arriving in Parliament, you had the opportunity to go through the peristyle. You answer yes – that's very good. So you were able to see the Repair Cafés that were installed there, especially at the invitation of the Speaker of the House, and which proposed to the MPs, who were numerous – indeed, Mr.Laaouej – to come and have one or the other aircraft repaired. You know the stakes and importance of fighting organised obsolescence. Today is an opportunity to ask where you are in the decision-making process. I'm not talking about studies, because there's enough. Every year, you published one. I took a look at it. In 2014, it was the SPF Economy; in 2015, it was PwC; in 2016, it was your own grade; in 2017, it was DRC Environment that again gave you one. I hope that by answering me now, you will not announce a new study. We agree – at least, on this. More seriously, Minister – and I say in the presence of the Prime Minister that we know how to pay attention to this issue – 2018 is the year of decisions to be made. I was reading an interview you had recently given in which you announced for the summer – but it was summer 2017! – a law designed to extend the duration of the guarantee. Now, in a few months, it will be summer 2018; and we still have no text in front of us. I do not want to ask you today about VAT or guarantee. Instead, I will ask you a very simple question: do you agree to include in a piece of legislation the definition of obsolescence, its prohibition and penalties at the key? It's no more complicated than that. So don't answer me by talking about VAT or the guarantee! Answer me only about the law, the definition and the legal sanctions!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Nollet, I am well aware of the subject you have raised. My answer is that I do not want to react in this way. Why? The central question is that the planned obsolescence deceives the consumer and is, moreover, regarded as an unfair commercial practice. That's the most important thing. We have had the chance to discuss this problem in committee, not only to think about it, but above all to use certain legal instruments to combat the planned obsolescence. Within the framework of my powers, the most important and urgent decision already taken is the introduction into the Code of Economic Law of provisions giving more power to inspection services. If there is sufficient evidence, they may impose the burden of proof on the manufacturer and require the manufacturer to have his product analysed by an independent laboratory. Products may also be withdrawn from the market. In addition, within the SPF Economy, a consultation platform was organised with representatives of consumers, producers and distributors to discuss the measures proposed in the study on planned obsolescence. 2018 is the year of the action and not of the study: we actually already have a lot of analysis done on this subject. Finally, I am in favour of changing the guarantee legislation. In this context, I have already submitted to the government's partners a proposal to reform the government's rules. In the coming weeks, discussions on this subject will continue. I asked to consult, one last time, all the actors to find a suitable solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u25	Minister, you are making progress on the guarantee issue. A piece of legislation, which is currently before the government, will be presented to us. You announced it for summer 2017, it will be proposed for summer 2018. But he'll come. My question was not about the guarantee – I was very clear – but about the introduction of a definition in the law. You say that there are already mechanisms to combat what should not exist on the market. Of course, the study, which you yourself have commissioned, points to the inadequacy of the legal framework. In France, appeals are possible against Apple and Epson for printers; in fact, ink cartridges are not entirely consumed at the time they are declared obsolete. These remedies are possible through the introduction of a definition, prohibition and sanction in legislation. Without this, today, in Belgium, the ink cartridges declared obsolete will continue to be sold, flood our market, and the problems encountered in France, especially with Apple products, will not disappear. The current legislative framework is insufficient because there is no definition or reference point. I hope that we can continue to try to convince you, with the associations, with those who were in the peristyle, to show you that the current legislative framework is insufficient to combat these practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u26	Mr President, Minister, Antwerp seems to be the Colombia of Europe, Bogota on the Scheldt. The famous war-on-drug campaign of the Antwerp mayor De Wever has turned into a drug war in which rival mob gangs go to life, with shootings, with incendiary bombs. According to true wild-west tradition, there is now also a dead-or-alive list, in which all outlaws questioned by the court or those informants or informants are made public via pamphlets "Death to the informants." With all the consequences of that. It's like a comic book, but unfortunately it's not. Reality surpasses fiction in Antwerp. In September, you announced a power plan in which all services, such as parquet services, police and urban services, as well as customs and related services, would join forces to tackle this problem. It's February now. I haven't heard from that power plan. It is said that this would be made public in the course of the following months. I believe, Minister, that there is a state of urgency which we must not ignore. Waiting for yet another plan is good to ease public opinion in response to yet another shooting or other incident involving drug mob gangs in Antwerp, but that does not solve the problem. My questions are therefore obvious. When's the power plan due? What are the main lines of the power plan? What measures are you taking today? What measures have you taken since September, when you announced the power plan, to deal with the incidents of rival gangs in Antwerp and to stop the drug mafia?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u27	Mr President, Mr Dewinter, you are right, the problem is indeed urgent and requires a firm approach. You will agree with me that it will take some time to vote the violins equally. I am now telling you that on 21 February, immediately after the crocus holiday, we will announce the power plan, in which all the services involved cooperate. You say making plans isn't enough. I refer to the Channel Plan: it works on the ground. We had to make a plan first. I assume that's how you built your house. First they make a plan and then they put the stones on top of each other. We did it the same way. We have made a plan first and then we can get to work. Who's involved in all this? Anyone who matters, namely the three federal administrations concerned, namely Justice, Finance for customs and home affairs purposes, as well as the city services, the mayor and local police, the Attorney General of Antwerp, the Public Prosecutor of Antwerp, the customs officer and his services, the CEO of the Port Authority, a number of private companies and Cepa. They're all on the same page and working together on the plan. The plan will be presented on 21 February. We propose an integrated approach, in professional terms multi-agency. That is not from one point of view, but from different angles. I am convinced that in this way we can put an end to these unacceptable practices. In the meantime, Mr Dewinter, judicial investigations are under way and convictions have also been made in this area. So there has been no idleness. You will understand that I cannot provide any information about the judicial investigations myself. For that, you must address Minister Geens. Keep an eye on your agenda, because on 21 February we will present the power plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u28	Minister, we are now seven months away from the municipal elections. Bart De Wever, the mayor of Antwerp, announced five years ago that the famous war on drugs would come, the priority of priorities. You say you have to have a plan before you build a house. That is true, but five years ago the plan for the war on drugs in Antwerp was drawn up. Today we see that the mix-up on drugs has turned into a mess with rival drug mob gangs attacking each other in streets and squares in Antwerp. The problem is the boredom of your party chairman and mayor, who has focused on removing the nuisance phenomena, on picking up the small drug dealers, on cutting the branches of the tree but who doesn't want the roots, dares or can't say who? Trying to deal with this. After more than five years, Minister for the Interior, this almost looks like a failure to act. Ladies and gentlemen of the NV-A, I understand that your Minister must act today because the mayor of Antwerp is unable to deal with the problems and must therefore be placed under the authority of the government, in particular of the Minister for the Interior of his own party, which must now intervene because the urban authorities, with the mayor's head, are unable to deal with these problems any longer. It is a pity to have to say this as an Antwerpian, but it is the bitter reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I quote: 'The FANC seems weak and sensitive to political and economic influence'. I also give you another quote: 'I do not have the impression that I can do my job correctly, the agency is not demanding enough for Electrabel and Engie'. These are quotes, Mr Vice Prime Minister, from a report on our Federal Nuclear Control Agency, on our nuclear watchdog. It is not the first time we have been confronted with such a message. There has already been an audit of the Agency pointing to dysfunctions and expressing doubts about the independence of our nuclear regulator. Today, there will be a second audit. Mr Vice Prime Minister, if such an audit were to appear on the OCAD, you would immediately take action. Should such an audit be published about the federal police, Minister Jambon would immediately shoot into action. You'd do anything to get a hold of that right away. I am absolutely convinced that in that case you would act. You are Minister of Security and therefore also Minister of Nuclear Safety. After that second audit has been published and made known, I would like to call on you today to address this problem on its merits and not simply to transfer it to the FANC itself, to the agency or the board of directors, but to assume your responsibility as Minister in this matter. I questioned you about this yesterday, even before the audit appeared. Then you said that an action plan would be drawn up. Today we read that the action plan is too weak. Yesterday, you referred to the board of directors. The Ecolo Green Group, and I hope we do not just say that this is a matter for the Minister of the Interior. Your answer yesterday was insufficient, especially if we read the audit today. I would like to hear from you as Minister of Security and therefore as Minister of Nuclear Safety, what you will do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u30	Mr President, Mr Calvo, thank you for exceeding the level of the Antwerp City Council. After all, the previous questioner referred mainly to the Antwerp City Council. Mr Calvo, you know that the FANC is an independent organisation and that supervision of that independent organisation is carried out according to strict procedures. That's the way it's supposed to be. I certainly don't want to violate that independence. At the same time, contrary to what you claim, I do not let everything go. Through my government Commissioner, I am indeed watching closely the FANC's operation. The first audit to which you refer is an audit that came to my question. In 2015, we requested an audit of the FANC's communication policy. The quotes you just gave were then refuted by the hearing officer as individual quotes which were certainly not well founded. I insisted on an audit of the communication policy. It has come and conclusions have been drawn. Yesterday, in committee, I gave a comprehensive answer to your question and to Mr Nollet's question, which actions were taken as a result of that audit. My first impression of Mr Nollet's reply was that we do not entirely disagree. The Management Board has carried out an in-depth evaluation of the Executive Board. There have been a number of things that I will not cast aside here, but I can tell you that the necessary actions have been taken to adjust the directors in question. Over the last few years, we have received the FANC's trade union representatives on several occasions. The difficulties that have arisen from this were passed on to the FANC's Management Board and to the Audit Committee and are followed up. As I have said on several occasions, this has led to an action plan presented to the social inspection in September 2017, which is now validated by the social inspection and will enter into force on 1 March. We will then be able to assess whether this is too little after 1 March. My Government Commissioner will urge the Management Board to take the necessary steps in the very short term to effectively address the shortcomings identified in the audit report. Take it from me that I'm following this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u31	Mr Vice-Prime Minister, you are not entirely convincing, and I shall be very careful. Colleagues, it is about an audit of 2016. The only thing you can tell us today, Minister, is that you are now looking at when the action plan will be operationalised. I repeat my message: if this were to happen in another part of your powers, you would not allow it to take so long. You say the FANC is an independent institution. We have just read that their independence is being questioned, even by their own employees. They claim to be too submissive, too good, too sympathetic for the nuclear sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u32	This concerns one vote which was subsequently described by the Hearing Officer as not relevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u33	You're going even further now. You are now even questioning the credibility of that audit. I don't understand. I also read in De Standaard today that you say that there is no problem and that this is viewed with a magnifying glass. It is true that this is viewed with a magnifying glass. Isn't it logical that we use a magnifying glass to look at our nuclear safety? I think so, and certainly at a time when there are cracks in power stations, concrete rots in Objective 3 and nuclear emergency planning. Colleagues, we need a strong watchdog at such times. I hear the N-VA seems to be annoying about this. This brings me to my final point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u34	You have to finish, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u35	While we read all these things, while our Belgian nuclear power stations are in the foreign press every week and the whole world, including the Minister's own auditors, is questioning the independence of our regulator, there is one party, the N-VA, which is doing everything possible to extend the life of the nuclear power plants. We need a minister to shut down nuclear safety... (Mr Calvo's micro.)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u36	Mr Calvo, I have to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u37	Minister, there have been regular strikes in our prisons for years. For many years now there has been a debate on the implementation of staff frameworks and the conditions for detention in our prisons. For many years now we have been negotiating the introduction of guaranteed services with the trade unions. In 2016 it even came to a catharsis. You will remember the very large French-speaking strike wave, even with damage and aggression on your cabinet. This led to a Belgian conviction for poor living conditions for prisoners in prisons during a strike, also because there is no minimum service. That also led to a number of promises. You said at that time that the guaranteed service was included in the coalition agreement and would be implemented. You also said that you would take care of the staffing framework. You've been working, too. You did something about that. You've released cells, along with Secretary of State Francken. Strangers who had been convicted had to serve their sentence in their homeland. You have also completed the staffing framework. You have also negotiated a great deal with the trade unions about the guarantee of services. You even said that the bill would be submitted to the Chamber by the end of 2017. However, the draft law is not yet in place today and the water is still on the lips of the prison staff. Today, unfortunately, we see strikes again in different places in the country. It has consequences for the prisoners. People fall back on a minimum detention. One needs to sleep on mattresses because cells need to be closed because there is insufficient staff. That's not okay. This once again puts us at risk of being sentenced to damages. Moreover, this also has consequences for the police, because if the guards start to strike, the police must also take over. Look at the numbers. In 2016 alone, 17 000 police officers were deployed to take over. That's huge. In times of terrorism, they have better business to do. Minister, you promised additional staff and a draft law on guaranteed services. What's the status?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u38	Mr.President, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we thought we were living a peaceful 2017 year in prisons, Mr.Minister. Things went right and then suddenly, for a few days, weeks, we're talking about strike notice and wondering what's going on. By gratifying a little, one realizes that in 2016, it was assured to the unions and prison guards that their situation was taken into account, that the lack of staff was obvious. As a result, protocols have been signed. I think there were two of them: one for a frame of 7,075 officers and the other for a frame of 6 825. And you made a commitment, Minister, to recruit an additional 480 Statutory Officers, 386 Prison Officers, 105 Francophones and 140 Dutch-speaking. But today we learn that – this is the reason for the strike – this does not seem to have been possible. Why was this not possible? A promise, when it is made, engages. It engages the minister who wears it and the government that supports it. Today, however, we see that this commitment has not been fulfilled. We know the consequences of these strikes, Minister. First, the workload for prison guards. Secondly, the worsening of the already unenviable situation of our detainees, in the light of our international obligations. And we, as mayors, have an obligation to substitute with the local police forces, which goes against the current. So, Minister, it would appear that there was some clarification yesterday and that you had positive contacts. It would be interesting to tell us more about this, because it has not been discussed in the press. You're probably going to tell us about it. These contacts would therefore give us hope for a positive development in the situation. On what basis would an agreement have been reached? What protocol, that of 2016 or a new protocol? With what guarantees and above all what financial means are guaranteed by the government and the Minister of Budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u39	Minister, we are indeed faced with yet another strike by the guards. This leads to unacceptable situations. Yesterday we heard from you that 125 prisoners have to sleep on the ground, while in Bruges, for example, two wings are empty because of lack of staff. It is also difficult working conditions for those who come to work and these strikes cost a lot of money. In 2016, it amounted to EUR 9 500 000. That's not negative. We could very well use that money elsewhere for justice. Minister, this has led to a condemnation of our country by the Council of Europe's anti-fouling committee. They say that they have visited 47 Member States in the last 27 years, but they have never seen a situation like that in our country. However, Minister, more than three years ago, you committed yourself to ensuring this guaranteed service. You have repeatedly confirmed that commitment. I lost count of the seasons in which you said you would come to Parliament with a draft. In addition, today we have to establish that the staff framework has not been completed. However, you promised the trade unions additional staff. This leads to a vicious circle of strikes and staff shortages. Minister, I have a few specific questions. When are you going to break through this vicious circle? Is there enough staff now? When will this draft be about the guaranteed service? We have also tabled a bill which has been awaiting Parliament's consideration for a number of years. Can we get to work on the basis of this proposal if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u40	Minister, remember, in 2016, this great strike movement in prisons! I asked you a lot about that. You made promises. Where are they today? In terms of staffing, 30 staff are lost each month. Your promise to reach 7,075 full-time equivalents is clearly not being met. Prison officers have 537,000 days of unpaid leave, approximately three months per officer. What is the balance sheet at the investment level? You were also committed to investments to improve the situation: cameras, showers, etc. Promise not held too! What is the state of health and prison overcrowding? This overcrowding is a persistent problem, hygiene is lacking, prisons are sick, prison officers and prisoners alike suffer from it. We have diseases: tuberculosis, hepatitis, AIDS, scab... Now 125 inmates are even forced to sleep on the floor! Some colleagues refer to the need for a minimum service. But he is not respected all year round! That is the real problem! Is it normal for a minister - you, Mr Geens - to sign an agreement in 2016 and not respect it? Agents and their representatives trust you in 2016 and see in 2018 that nothing is done. We hear you have a short-term hiring plan. Will you keep this promise of 7,075 full-time equivalents? You say the government has given you a budget. Why do you only receive it two years later? What's his amount one shot? Its recurring annual amount? How many jobs will this represent? Is there also a budget for investments? When will officers be able to recover the 537,000 days of leave on reserve?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u41	Colleagues, the social conflict in prisons is ongoing and focuses on personnel-related aspects such as staff occupation and baraemic promotions. Following the long-term strikes in early 2016, a series of hirings of employees was carried out. The recruitments to which I had then committed took place, certainly with regard to prison monitors. Since the conclusion of the agreement, 851 recruitments have taken place. Mr Brotcorne, these 851 recruits far exceed the figures you mentioned. One hundred and twenty others are in progress. Eighty supplementary files have been submitted to the Treasury Inspectorate for approval. That means 1 051 recruitments have taken place or are on their way. Of course, much is a consequence of the evolution of the staff in prisons, of the age pyramid and of the natural rooms, which is, of course, enormous in the case of a shrinking labour market, i.e. in the case of increased demand for labour. This is certainly the case when we have to consider old Selor groups, which was the case at the beginning. I would like to point out that almost a thousand recruitments are not nothing in such a short period from July 2016, with the state apparatus that we know and the Selor trials that need to be taken away. In the same period, six hundred prison officers left the prisons. I think that the situation that existed in 2016 was significantly more dramatic than the one that we have been engaged in in 2016. Mr Brotcorne, you rightly pointed out that there were two protocols. The second protocol established the "other work" framework of 6,825 prison officers. I undertook, in the negotiations that took place long before Christmas - it has not been since yesterday that we are negotiating - to fill this framework and even go beyond it to have a buffer making possible irregular departures given the pyramid of ages and other circumstances due to the characteristics of our labour market today. The break from Monday to Thursday last week and the 36 hour strike from Thursday evening to Saturday morning took place after a first major negotiation last Wednesday. A second took place yesterday. I hope that a human being can only hope, even more so, I think that the present proposal will be satisfactory. Of course, the planned trade union action for Friday could no longer be cancelled. With regard to the state of the services guaranteed, a point in the coalition agreement, I can say that this has not been attempted so far in history. I am in a month-long negation with the unions of the prison staff and within the government about a design of minimum service. Because of the social conflict, this draft is not finalized today, but you can be sure it will be there soon. I'm not going to fixate on a date anymore, because I wouldn't like you to lose count of the seasons because of my mistake, Mrs. Van Cauter. So I'm not gonna fixate on a date. But it's coming soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u42	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased to hear that recruitment will take place and that a solution can be found for staffing problems and turnover. I also understand that you and Minister Jambon may call on civil security to make some adjustments. That is all well and good, and I hope that this will work, and I wish you every success in doing so. With regard to the guaranteed service, I do not hear a date anymore, I hear 'fast and soon'. You can't blame me, but I'll be worried. Last parliamentary term, Mrs Turtelboom always talked about summer, but what summer? In the meantime we are already a few summers further. I really hope you'll get to work on that soon. Minister, we can help you, because we too have a legislative proposal in place. So it doesn't take long to check that out. We can continue to do so. Then that problem is solved. If there is still a conflict, the service will certainly be guaranteed, the living conditions of the prisoners will be better and, in short, everyone will benefit from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u43	Mr President, Minister, I hear your answer, even though you have not told us much about what is currently on the table for negotiations with the unions on opening up and expanding the framework. Are there 6,825 officers remaining as a basis for work? Maybe even beyond? I see you making signs. You abandoned the use of civil protection, which was discussed at some point. In any case, this does not seem to be the consensus solution. What is important is that commitments, when made, be respected. I do not imagine for a moment that the figures announced do not take account of natural departures, such as pension payments. You have invoked the age pyramid. I imagine that all these elements are taken into account. Minister, if an agreement is reached, please respect it! Get the money from the government to do this. Minimum service is sometimes presented as a solution. Turtelboom was already talking about it when she was Minister of Justice. We had to evaluate protocols. It's always about it. But it only makes sense if the framework is sufficient. In the absence of a framework, it is also not possible to set up a minimum service.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u44	Minister, it is good that you provide sufficient staff. That is necessary. After the seasons I have now also heard a number of words that indicate a short term. After "quickly" I now get to know "quickly." There is hope, Minister. After all, I hear that you have put a draft on the government table. That's new. It is now up to us to decide on this. I assume you have a sharp knife and that you, as a good chef, will make the right decision here too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u45	Minister, you highlight the problem of the age pyramid: 650 officers have left prisons. But in 2016, when you signed the protocol, did you not doubt that this problem of the age pyramid should have been taken into account? What exactly is this pyramid of ages? Shouldn't the agents be replaced when they reach pension age? This problem seems to me to be predictable. This argument seems to me to be quite surprising. You haven't answered a series of points like, for example, the fact that 725 inmates are sleeping on the floor? Is that normal? With respect to the number of full-time equivalents (FTEs), you no longer retain your initial commitment to increase their number to 7,075. You're falling back on the 6 825! But when? We don't know! A complete framework is one thing. It is another reason to be unable to recover 537,000 days off. You still don't propose anything about how prison officers can get them back. Finally, with regard to minimum service, it seems to me that the solution is not to attack workers who are precisely subjected to very difficult situations. I repeat that the minimum service must be provided 365 days/365, which is not respected. It was only at the time when the officers went on strike that they alerted us to the deplorable situation in prisons, both for the prisoners and for themselves. Finally, you're breaking the thermometer!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u46	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, once again there is great concern for me here, hoping that there will be an initiative soon, preferably from the government, because that is the fastest way of working. It is about the increasing signs of an acute problem of radicalisation in prisons. That fact is already known to us, but it seems to be increasing head-on. I followed with great interest the previous discussion on the living conditions in prisons, which are playing into the hands of radicalism. A second element that brings me to this point is an acute challenge, since in the coming weeks and months many convicted foreign terrorist fighters, those convicted of terrorism who are still in prison today, will be released. The field isn't ready for this. It is everyone's ambition to monitor, monitor and monitor this risk group, which is perhaps the most dangerous risk group, but I regret to say that it is not ready on the ground. Coincidence or not, some renowned safety specialists and professors have published a very interesting report this week, the Egmont Paper 101, which puts the finger on the wound that our country is failing with regard to this large risk group. I will not elaborate on that report, because I suspect you can read it; at least I have a copy with me. The essence of the report has long been discussed here, namely that too little preparation is being made in prisons, that there are not enough bridges between the different levels of competence and that there is not enough cooperation with local authorities. Minister, will you take an initiative to make arrangements with regional ministers and local authorities, so that they are well prepared for the release and that the follow-up is properly coordinated in the coming days, months and perhaps years after the release of those involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u47	Mr President, Mr Bonte, the study shows that there has been clear progress in the sharing of information and cooperation between services and local authorities. There are, of course, points of improvement that we need to work on. The study also points to a significant improvement in the flow of information from prisons. In any release of a terrorist-related inmate, prisons shall inform the federal police, which shall be responsible for further communication to the local police. These flows of information complement the existing flow of information to local police, as laid down in the law on the external legal status of detainees. Mr Bonte, you know that the Extremism Coordination Cell of the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions, together with the Security of the State, plays a crucial role in this. The Extremism Coordination Cell also feeds the common database terrorist fighters with all information about the detention history and behaviour. The database is also accessible to local police. Mr Bonte, I know that this issue is a burning concern for you, and in particular for your city, and I want to convince you that it is also a burning concern for the federal government. In the National Security Council, to the extent possible, Mr De Roover, we will try to focus as much as possible on the issue, particularly on the release of people who are at the end of their sentence or who have not been detained for terrorism but who would have been radicalised in prison. They pose particular problems from a penitentiary point of view, which we will include in the National Security Council and later with local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u48	Minister, you mentioned my "burning concern" for my city, but allow me to say that in my city, compared to Antwerp, Brussels and other cities, it is a small group. When you quote the report, I am disappointed that you are pointing out some of the improvements that the authorities have already pointed out, but that you are not addressing the most crucial challenges that it poses. I won't list them, but please read the pages 34, 35 and 36 again. They indicate what police forces feel on the ground, namely that there is little coordination between social services and the prison security services, nor between the federal branch and the regional branch, and certainly not at the local level. I invite you to contact other mayors, for example from Antwerp or the Brussels area, and ask them to what extent their social services are informed about the time of release, how someone is reintegrated and how someone is being followed. Smiling about "the burning city of Vilvoorde" is misplaced, Minister. I would like you to take up the recommendations of the objective independent analysts in order to make security policy much better than it is today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u49	Mr. President, Minister, the government is about to acquire long-range drones. If I'm well informed, the decision could take place tomorrow. Our Military Purchases Commission has given a positive opinion. I have followed this positive opinion constructively. That said, this is an essential political issue that deserves public debate, since these drones are presented as finally equipment that will be used to improve our intelligence and surveillance capabilities. This is presented as such in your document "Strategic Vision" and, in the military programming law, it is equipment that is primarily presented as intelligence material. But, de facto, they're combat drones. They have that ability. This is stated in your strategic vision and, moreover, the bombs already exist in our territory, since it is this type of bombs (laser, GPS) and missiles that now equip our F-16s. So we have a combat capability, Minister! We have, as is also reflected in your strategic plan, the possibility, with the agreement of the government, of using these drones in long-range military actions. This is obviously a major strategic military development. For the first time, Belgium acquires weapons that allow it to have combat at a distance, on land far from that where the military operates. A priori, I am not opposed to such equipment, but you understand that we are entering another environment that deserves a debate on ethical and legal issues. Who will give permission? Who will authorize this? Is this parliament? Is it the government? Under what policy framework? What kind of threat? I am calling for such a public debate on this type of weaponry, on other weapons as well. This deserves you to speak out on these major political issues that commit to the way in which Belgium will wage war in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u50	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, the recognition drones - I stress the word "recognition" - are included in the Strategic Vision under the capacity dimension "intelligence, cyberinfluence". You know that we discussed the whole project in camera in committee last week. You were there. I explained two things to you. First, if bombs were to be placed on the drones envisaged, technical parts would have to be added, which are not ordered today. Secondly, I explained to you that with regard to these unarmed drones, if it were necessary to arm them by adding the bombardment capability, then we would have a new discussion and decision within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u51	Minister, I maintain that the drones we are talking about - and I have read the press, like you, today, I know what we are talking about - the Sky-Guardians, are drones that have a military capability. It will suffice to have some additional technical elements. The bombs are already there and it is stated, as you have confirmed now, that it will be sufficient for a government agreement to transform them into attack drones. So, we have de facto a few-room technology and bombs. I ask that there be a parliamentary debate on this issue because it changes the strategic picture of being able to wage a war remotely without us taking any risks. You know that this raises questions of a ethical and legal nature. I ask that this debate take place calmly, openly and publicly. I believe that the Belgian population has the right to know that this is a development, at least potential but very close to our capacity. This is indicated as such in your Strategic Vision. I believe that this deserves a debate and that you can come and speak in public in the Defence Committee on these developments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u52	Mr President, Minister, with some delay, as we are unfortunately used to doing with the NBMS, the government has now begun negotiations on the management contracts for our railway companies. These management contracts are important documents and they are the means by which politics must define its objectives in the area of rail mobility. It should not be a business as usual, as we used to know, with SNCB pushing through its internal business logic in the management contracts. For the N-VA, SNCB must make a clear commitment to improving punctuality, improving performance in the Strategic Vision of this government. These are important objectives for all of us, and concrete figures must be attached to them. These concrete figures, these objectives must be in black and white in the management contracts. That is the role of politics. Next, it is up to the railway companies themselves to meet these objectives. Every year, we give about EUR 3 billion of tax money to these companies, and we want to return to a number of objectives. How they do that is up to the companies themselves. The N-VA is for greater autonomy for our railway companies. We believe that top management should be able to pursue its own business policy and should be able to guarantee that these objectives are met. If they do not meet these objectives, they must of course feel it financially in their variable remuneration. Minister, I have a very simple question for you. How will you translate these clear objectives, which are based on the importance of the traveller and our mobility, into those management contracts?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I can understand your delay. You were born on February 8, 1954. On behalf of the Socialist Group and the colleagues in this House, I wish you a happy birthday. I'll take care of the dessert now. Here's your coffee shoot. Minister, last Friday, the government was triumphant. You're going to inject $5 billion into SNCB. Communication, above all, was triumphant. In fact, what is the situation, ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, with regard to this government's policy towards SNCB? First of all, let us remember that these investment plans arrive almost three years after your predecessor cancelled the multi-year investment plan (MIP) 2013-2025, which was otherwise more ambitious. Then, Minister, will you dare to contradict me if I tell you that your announcement last week was first and foremost confirmation of a reduction of several billions for SNCB's investments? As you read the figures in your press release, we understand that instead of a multi-year investment plan, you have mostly adopted a management plan, an austerity plan imposed on the two railway companies at the beginning of the legislature – it is not your fault, but rather the peers of this government. As for the meagre strategic plan, it demonstrates the government's lack of long-term vision for Belgian rail. The amount of EUR 1.5 billion over 13 years is in total contrast to the challenges that will be faced by our rail sector in the future. Worse, you create uncertainty, which prevents any investment planning. Yesterday, the press revealed to us the future promised to commuters. The future management contract for SNCB will provide greater tariff freedom. What we understand above all is that the SNCB will increase the fares of the so-called captive public, that is, commuters who, every day, have no alternative but to get on a train to go to work, even when it is late, even when it is crowded. Minister, can you clarify things for everyone? Yes, or no, will Infrabel's endowments be increased following the adoption of the IPP? You have announced €5 billion. Are these additional investments? Do you think that the unfortunate amount planned for the period 2018-2031 (€1.5 billion) is sufficient to meet the mobility and environmental challenges facing Belgium? How can Infrabel and SNCB prepare for the future if you deny them any prospect beyond the next two years? Do you confirm that SNCB will be able to increase its tariffs on the captive public? I will be very attentive to your answers on this very symbolic day for you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u54	Mr President, Minister, before you can continue to enjoy your birthday, I would like to ask a number of specific questions about the management agreement. First of all, there is the price differentiation. We have learned in the past in committee that there is such a thing as yield management, that prices may vary depending on the day and that there might be a price reduction during the day in order to move more passengers by public transport. However, we fear that there will also be a price increase in addition to this price reduction, especially for those who have no choice but to travel during rush hour. Those who have to take the train for their work, the hardworking Fleming, would be hit by more expensive tickets. Even the CRB says that such a price increase will mainly be borne by the workers. Is that what you're saying? Do you confirm that the hardworking Fleming, Brusselser or Waal will have to pay more for his train ticket? Secondly, there is the link of the price mechanism with criteria such as punctuality and comfort. We have read that this link is broken, that people will have to pay more for less service. Is that what you're saying, yes or no? Thirdly, the timing. We have heard in the corridors that there is a draft management agreement, but it is very unclear for society when this management agreement will be effective. What's the timing? What can Infrabel and SNCB expect from this government? What can the traveller expect?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u55	Mr. Secretary, congratulations on your birthday. Mr President, Minister, at last! Finally, all the puzzle pieces seem to fall apart. We have the new transport plan, which entered into force in December. Investment plans are coming to an end. And now the management agreements in the government are under discussion. That's a good thing, and it's about time. The previous management agreement, concluded at the time by Minister Vervotte, is now ten years old. The importance of a new management agreement cannot be underestimated either, because the year 2023 is coming very quickly, an important year in the context of the liberalisation of rail transport. Since 2012, the old management agreement has been renewed year after year. The railway companies did not really end up in a policy vacuum, but this has resulted in a lack of a long-term policy within which the railway companies had to operate. That, of course, was not only your fault, Minister. Many of your predecessors bear the responsibility for this. However, it is a basic principle of the 1991 Law that public undertakings SNCB and Infrabel are given the freedom to achieve certain objectives under a management agreement. They also get a lot of dotations, a little less than 3 billion a year. That's not nothing. The Belgian railway companies receive a large amount of money for this when comparing it with the surrounding countries. So it's okay to have something to do with that. We are looking at the objectives set out in those management agreements. We will probably discuss it at length during the discussion in committee, but I will give you two points of interest. What I miss for the time being, as far as we already know the texts, is a general objective. What is the railway company's ambition in terms of number of passengers by 2022? What is the railway company's ambition in terms of the modal shift of traffic in our country? This general objective seems to me to be a basic requirement in the policy framework within which these companies have to operate. A second element has already been mentioned here. Tariff freedom will be increased, which I believe is a good thing. I think it is right that SNCB should be able to respond to certain commercial needs and therefore to fill the empty seats better. On the other hand, however, there is also a link between price increases and improvements in quality. I also miss that aspect in the provisional texts. I'd have liked to have seen that. Mr President, so far there have been a number of reservations and questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I join you in celebrating my birthday! Thank you very much. I am delighted to have questions about the content of a SNCB management contract, as it had not happened since 2012. Indeed, since 2012, no text has ever been put on the table of the federal government's working groups. To be ready in 2012, it was necessary to start in mid-2010 or early 2011. It's the past. As I have always said, I am moving forward with the tasks of my road map, which is very busy. This new stage is proof of this. I will not discuss a document here today which is the starting point for a consultation, because it seems more relevant from a political point of view to come here and explain the government's position when the consultations have been completed. However, I can tell you the general philosophy that I propose in terms of performance because it contrasts with the past and is similar to that applied in so-called "normal" companies. In the previous management contract, the company was sanctioned when its punctuality performance was not at the expected level. Subsequently, some elements of performance influenced the variable share of management salaries. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity offered by the new management contracts to go beyond this approach and set performance criteria that directly affect the variable part of the management's salary, because it has the levers to manage the company's performance level. Thus, the shareholder and management remain within the limits of their respective prerogatives. They also assume and implement their respective responsibilities. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to start over – since you're inviting me to – to talk about the past. "One of yours is better than two you'll get it," that's my philosophy. Therefore, between the approach of making a list of projects for which we do not have the slightest euro, or approving a list of projects whose funding is guaranteed, I have chosen the second path, that of reason and, I believe, of good management. One of my predecessors had been pleased to report on the volume of investments that had been retained. I am referring to the famous plan "Saint-Nicolas" 2013-2025, which was not funded. It was a pure announcement effect, without the slightest euro to finance it. To come back to the reason, it led the government to develop a much larger rail offer than in 2014, as for the first time in decades, the number of train kilometres travelled each day was increased by 5% in December 2017. And travellers have already anticipated this happy prospect since their number increased by 3% in 2017 compared to 2016, even before the implementation of the transport plan. With regard to investments, the government committed EUR 4.3 billion in investment grants for the period 2018-2020. In addition, an additional €1 billion for works spread over the period 2018-2031 will allow the GEN to be restarted and regional priorities to be implemented outside the GEN. This is something many have talked about and others have dreamed about, but without ever achieving it. Returning to the IPP, I would like to point out that what has been approved by the Council of Ministers is coordinated plans between the two companies. While at the time it was claimed that Infrabel and SNCB were unable to work together, they produced a major document, harmonized with each other, which kept all components of the network in condition. Now the legal consultation phase begins, including the Advisory Committee of Train Passengers and Railway Undertakings, which will last for 45 days. The draft 2013-2025 of the previous government has not been able to go through this stage, which prevented the communication being converted into a legal instrument. With regard to the Multi-year Strategic Investment Plan (MIP), as the government has freed up the resources, work on the MIP can now resume and capacity development work can be initiated. I am not under short-term pressure, but I want to beat the iron while it is hot. As a result, my teams and those of my regional colleagues are working hard. In accordance with the decision of the Consultation Committee, once these cooperation agreements are finalized, all texts will be submitted to the Council of State. And for the future, the period beyond 2020, I can only hope that the following governments will have the same sense of responsibility as Charles Michel's government and that they will decide to add more virtuous billions to the one I have obtained. Indeed, the challenge of long-term mobility needs it. Long live an Infrabel-SNCB finally put back on track! All the documents are being discussed with the Regions and with my colleagues in the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u57	Minister, today is your birthday. You've been too long!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u58	It's a gift!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u59	That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u60	I would also like to congratulate you, Minister, on your birthday. It is a pity that the masks of the left-wing opposition have fallen again on this very day. After all, what have we been hearing in the Infrastructure Committee for months? All this is due to the savings of the current hard government, which are supposedly made on the passenger's hood. You have also mentioned this, Minister. We must, however, do something about this. What has the current government done? Mr Devin, we do have a long-term vision, namely the strategic plan, which is a trend break with the past. We are now finally thinking on behalf of the traveller, the company and the taxpayer. We have approved an investment plan of EUR 5 billion, which is unseen. We have put in 5 % extra trains. Those are all trends with the past. Now the management contracts are coming, the final step. Minister, you have our support for a management contract with ambitious objectives in the interests of the traveller.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u61	Minister, when you have great difficulty in taking on the present and you cannot afford to have a vision for the future, you hang on to the past. That's right, you're right to talk about the past. And for the figures of the past, Mr Flahaux, the figures of the minister of that time, your minister of the budget, MR, you will tell him about them! Olivier Chastel legitimized all these figures. Let me be clear, Mr President, I was wondering if there was a further EUR 5 billion on the Belgian rail table. Mr Minister just said: there is no euro. A great communication, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Mobility, not a euro. Confirmation of austerity. Mr Minister, Mr Flahaux, who is trying to interrupt me, your communication is smoke. The daily reality of the hundreds of thousands of commuters, thousands of railway workers, here it is: price increases, stop work RER, removal of the Walloon dorsal, constant decrease of punctuality, pressure on railway workers to the detriment of their safety. (Tumults) Mr President, even if it does not please to hear the truth, she has her rights: abandonment of the secondary network in Wallonia, prohibition of preparing for the future. This legislature is becoming more and more like that of the black years on the Belgian rail. If it is your birthday, Mr Minister, the Belgian rail is not at the party!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u62	Minister, first of all, your government started in 2014. It's now 2018. You cannot blame me for the fact that there is still no management agreement. Secondly, the people on the workplace and the passengers on the platform are asking the government for clarity. They therefore ask where the management agreement is. Thirdly, and here I agree with Mrs De Coninck, you do have a long-term vision of public transport. That is the view of a right-wing majority, who does not want a public authority to organise public transport, but rather a flat privatisation. That's your long-term vision. There is 5 billion in investment. Well, these investments take place with the own funds of the two companies, SNCB and Infrabel. Minister, you are talking about the virtual billion; well, that is 1 billion more being borrowed and the borrowing costs are partly among the companies. That is indeed virtual. That is the fundamental point on which I absolutely do not agree with your majority, in fact with your coalition partner N-VA, Minister. The savings on public transport are now being felt by passengers and workers and otherwise a show is being staged here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u63	Mr President, Minister, a lot has been said here, while our railway companies have improved in terms of performance and efficiency in recent years, while the number of train kilometres has never been so high since the December transport plan, while there is at last a realistic investment plan and the number of rail passengers has never been so high. Minister, the train is still a source of stress for many travellers, a threat to workable work, so to speak. So there's still work to be done. The average train traveler does want to pay a fair price for his train ride, but then she has to be quality and the train has to run punctually. There is work to be done and sufficient attention must be paid to this within the management agreement. We shall continue to follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u64	Minister, last week you undertook an Asian tour, specifically to China and Vietnam, in particular to support and diversify the export of Belgian meat. For our country, which is in net overproduction of beef and pork, the opportunity offered by these markets is interesting for our farmers tempted by export. The observation is as follows. On the one hand, the Belgian eats less and less meat, with consumption falling by 25% in just eight years – a general trend in the European Union. In China, however, the trend is exactly the opposite: the new generation wants to eat more meat. As a result, demand is growing year by year. The conclusion to be drawn is simple: the supply of Chinese producers does not meet the expressed demand. However, there are still some barriers to Belgian meat exports to Asia, including the Belgian beef embargo in China or the Vietnamese authorities' demand that all imported beef be born and raised in Belgium. Minister, could you take stock of this Asian tour and inform us of the progress made by our farmers? In view of its success, and in order to support our agriculture, are further trips planned to promote our agricultural exports?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u65	Mrs Galant, you have particularly focused your question on beef. You have presented the context, which is not obvious because of the decline in domestic consumption. This declining rate encourages us to turn to export. We must therefore conquer new markets. You could also have indicated that beef prices have fallen significantly – their fall between 2014 and 2017 is in the order of 15%. That is why such trips and missions are useful if certain files are to be unblocked. In terms of both pigmeat and beef, we have been able to make a number of advances. Thus, for the second, we have been able to reach an agreement to put an end to the embargo that has been on our exports for more than 20 years. Of course, it was important to achieve this. Similarly, Vietnam is going to open up to our beef, because so far we have not been exporting beef there. The situation is getting out of hand. The visit of the Vietnamese Minister of Agriculture will take place shortly, to complete the work with the Exports Unit of the AFSCA. AFSCA is also a cell that comes into contact with health authorities in other countries, so that we can meet the standards required in Asian markets. Indeed, we have made concrete progress. It will continue to work with China, which accounts for 20 per cent of the world's population. You indicated that the consumption of meat, pork and beef was increasing there. It is therefore a matter of continuing to conquer these markets. We have made progress in China and Vietnam. We will continue in this direction. Finally, and since we are talking about beef, we must not lose on one side what we gain on the other. I would therefore like to tell you that on the occasion of the European Agriculture Council on 19 February, I will repeat Belgium's entire reservation concerning the Mercosur agreement, as negotiated on beef and veal. This agreement would have an even greater impact on the future of farmers and cattle farmers in Belgium and Europe. The additional beef quota must remain reasonable. It must not be produced in excess. The additional 70,000 tonnes is our red line for this treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u66	Mr Minister, I thank you for your actions in favour of our exports and in particular for our farmers. We are confident that these actions will be followed by visible short- and medium-term effects and results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u67	Mr President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, you are responsible not only for asylum and migration, but also for administrative simplification. Administrative simplification is still a separate competence in the government today. I think it is right, because the administrative burden and the associated costs are a brake on many entrepreneurs and citizens. However, I note that it has been quiet on this front for a number of years. However, the coalition agreement was very ambitious. Administrative burdens would fall by as much as 30%. However, a report by the Federal Planning Office shows that the burden did not fall, but rather increased by 2.3 %. I'm quoting a few figures. The administrative burden is around EUR 6.8 billion. A large EUR 4 billion is due to tax regulation. We must ask ourselves who is responsible for this. In the end, it is small and medium-sized enterprises who pay the price. However, we must all be convinced that some improvement is possible in digital times. Mr Secretary of State, you are well aware of the current problems. You proposed an SME simplification plan last summer. My questions are as follows. What are the main lines of that plan? How's the execution coming? Are there any concrete results? Are you planning any additional initiatives? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u68	Mr President, the report by the Federal Planning Office does indeed mention an increase in the administrative burden on companies, but these figures represent the total amount for all enterprises. There is no increase in charges per company. The increase in total costs is a logical consequence of the attracting economy. Thanks to this government's re-launch policy, there are more companies that employ more staff and invest more in their taxation, which also increases the overall administrative burden. However, this should not conceal the fact that progress is being made. Measured by economic activity, the administrative burden decreased from 1,66 % of GDP in 2014 to 1,6 % in 2016. It is our ambition to further reduce that percentage. Special attention should be paid to SMEs. In fact, the decline is less marked than in the case of self-employed and large companies. This has several causes. First of all, as soon as it took office, the government has already undertaken a substantial reduction in the burden on the self-employed, through, inter alia, the simplification and wider exemption from VAT obligations. The lower burden on large companies is due to the introduction of various e-government and e-invoicing programmes that have been introduced in recent years by large companies, but still too little for SMEs. Colleagues, the absence of SMEs in this evolution is, of course, unacceptable. After all, they are the engine of our economy. I have therefore proposed to the government together with Minister Borsus, so now with Mr Ducarme, a simplification plan for SMEs that was adopted. This plan includes 120 measures including simplified access to the land register, a digital platform for public procurement and a whole range of other measures. You can consult this online and I'll have it delivered to you as well. The impact of this will be closely monitored by the Administrative Simplification Service. So let me be clear: the government will do everything in its power to reduce the administrative burden on companies even further in the years ahead, so that our companies can focus on their core business as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u69	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your clear answer. The figures are, of course, what they are and each figure is to be taken into account. We must be aware that the unnecessary administrative burden is costing us billions. As an enterprise-friendly government, we should never tolerate such a thing. It's really time for you to change your mind. We don't have to reinvent the hot water. Perhaps there could be consultation with Mr Van Quickenborne, who has earned his stripes in this area. He has taken numerous measures in this area for many years. We will also need the strength and determination that characterize you so much here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u70	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u71	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 February 2018, I propose to register on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill (Mrs Carina Van Cauter and Mr Sonja Becq and Mr Peter Dedecker and Mr Gilles Foret) amending the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, Nos 2913/1 to 4. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 February 2018, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill (Mrs.Carina Van Cauter and Sonja Becq and Messrs. Peter Dedecker and Gilles Foret) amending the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, Nos. 2913/1 to 4. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u72	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Gwenaëlle Grovonius, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u73	Mr President, Protocol No. 15 contains a lot of novelties. In future, the parties will no longer be able to oppose referring a case to the Grand Chamber. That's a procedural rule. The time limit for filing a petition in Strasbourg shall be reduced from six months to four months. That's also a procedural rule. However, there are also some problematic aspects. I would like to highlight two on behalf of my group. Firstly, it is a mixed treaty, which the Council of State also underlines in its opinion. The Treaty must therefore also be approved by the Communities and the Regions, simply because not only the Federal State but also the Länder are obliged to give substance to respect for human rights in the exercise of their powers. I note, however, that, despite the very clear opinion of the Council of State, the Working Party on the Joint Treaties, chaired by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and which also includes representatives of the Länder, considers that this is not a mixed treaty. So we are not just living in a Community stand-still; we are apparently living in times when the Länder voluntarily renounce some of their powers. In other words, a power is wrongly re-federalised, in short, it is uploaded by the federal government. Secondly, I note that Protocol No. 15 as regards legal protection, the way in which Protocol No 15 is to be applied. 14, which dates back to 2010. In 2010, it made it more difficult to initiate proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights by introducing a new ground of inadmissibility, namely in case of no substantial disadvantage. That immediately raised the question of what that was, essentially suffering disadvantage? In any event, even if there had been no substantial disadvantage, the application remained admissible if the case had not been properly dealt with by the national court. I was already an opponent of Protocol No. 14, but to my surprise, Protocol No. 15 even further and now deletes the last sentence, which states that a petition, even if there is no disadvantage, is admissible if the case was not properly dealt with at national level. A case therefore does not even need to be dealt with properly at national level, while it is about fundamental rights, in particular human rights. Moreover, I have never understood and will probably never understand the link between suffering damage and disregarding human rights. That's two different things. One of the human rights set out in the Treaty can be ignored without any disadvantage or damage. In such cases, the European Court of Human Rights has consistently found in the judgment that the mere finding of the breach of the Treaty is sufficient as compensation, as compensation. Now, apparently, we're getting off that. It is becoming more difficult to access the European Court of Human Rights, and I regret that. The Member States are, of course, very bored with the European Court. Since 1959, the European Court has delivered more than 19 500 judgments. In no less than 84 per cent of the cases, the Court found a breach of one of the fundamental rights or freedoms. I therefore understand that for some Member States the European Court is a fraud. Those Member States want to tighten the conditions of admissibility so that there are fewer and fewer proceedings before the Court, which I can only regret. My group will not approve the assent law for these reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question of human rights requires great caution in the face of adaptations such as those contained in Protocol No 15. We regret various aspects of the Protocol and are not the only ones. For example, various NGOs, including Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, European Human Rights Advocacy Center, etc., criticized several aspects of Protocol No. 15 in a joint statement on 24 June 2013. In particular, we share three of the criticisms made by this coalition of NGOs. The first criticism relates to the fact that the protocol provides for a reduction in the time limit for bringing an appeal to the European Court of Human Rights from six to four months. This is indeed a limitation in terms of access to justice, since the six-month period is often necessary, in particular for vulnerable groups. The second criticism concerns the amendment on admissibility, which aims to reduce the scope of application. Where an application has not been sufficiently taken into account by a national court, it is no longer automatically regarded as a significant disadvantage. In this way, the jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights is limited. The third criticism relates to the widening of the margin of appreciation that was previously not applied to all the provisions of the Convention. This is problematic in that this margin implies a logic according to which national interests are placed before human rights. These are the three reasons why we cannot support this Protocol.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u75	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u76	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2835/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2835/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u77	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u78	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Kattrin Jadin, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u79	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2852/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2852/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u80	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u81	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u82	Mr President, I would like to refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u83	Thank you for that, Mrs Capoen. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u84	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2863/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2863/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u85	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u86	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Vincent Van Peteghem, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u87	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2865/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2865/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u88	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u89	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 284: Jef Van den Bergh, Roel Deseyn, Stefaan Vercamer, Leen Dierick Jef Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u90	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Veli Yüksel, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law and the related proposals are essentially aimed at reducing the number of escape offences on our roads. I'm sure there's still a lot of work to be done today. When I look only at the newspapers of the last month, between January 6, 2018 and February 7, 2018 I already see a whole series of escape crimes, namely fifteen. The hit-and-run continues to get a lot of attention in the headlines. It confronts people with many victims in traffic. Unfortunately, the series that we have seen in the newspapers over the last few weeks is far from exceptional. Over the past few years, there have been about 12 injuries every day and the unsub fled. Almost every month there are two deaths in a hit-and-run accident. If we add to this the purely tinned accidents, we are even talking about more than 200 offenders who choose the hare path on a daily basis. These are hallucinatory figures, for which we must pay sufficient attention. These are often problem drivers, drivers who had drunk or were under the influence of drugs, who were driving without a driver's license or during a driving ban. It is those problem drivers who are targeted by the draft law before us. It is those hard-hitting drivers who repeatedly appear before the police courts, without changing anything about his or her behavior. It is often about drivers who are well aware of what they are doing. To avoid punishment, they already register their vehicle in the name of their wife, their grandmother and in some cases even in the name of children and minors. That way they hope to avoid punishment. If they are caught, they try to extend proceedings before the courts, until the crime is statute of limitations. It is therefore not clear today for police judges to grasp those drivers. They continue to appear indifferent to the courts in question, forcing the legislator to take certain initiatives, such as the initiatives that are before us today. Making punishment more efficient is an important objective. Making the penalties heavier in certain extreme cases is certainly appropriate. Hard leather drivers need to be dealt with more strictly. The right attitude in traffic starts with the traffic lesson at school. She's moving on to driving school. Sensibilisation is also important: a small penalty for minor offences, a large penalty for larger offences. But if all this turns out to have no effect, it may be time to impose courses or even prison sentences on certain drivers. Maximum prison sentences will increase thanks to this design and the maximum penalty for hard-class drivers will be doubled. This will enable police judges to act more strictly, and hopefully this message will also get through effectively. For offenders who deliberately want to avoid penalties by driving around in a car that is not in their name, registration liability is introduced through the bill. In addition to legal persons, natural persons will now be obliged to disclose the driver of their vehicle, with whom the crime was committed. That is a very important element against impunity. Specialists agree that a hit-and-run often occurs as a result of other road crimes. I have already mentioned a number of them: uninsured driving, driving without a driving licence, driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs. If we want to deal effectively with the hit-and-run, we must tackle these underlying causes strictly in order to prevent the perpetrators from choosing the hare path. Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, often also both, needs to be better dealt with. To this end, measures relating to the alcohol lock will also be included in the draft. I'm glad to hear that. I remember well: in 2005 when I first put forward the alcohol lock as a possible instrument in road safety, I was almost laughed away. Today, it has proved to be a useful tool throughout Europe that can contribute to improving road safety. I am therefore pleased that the ministers have included this in the draft law today. A ban on driving because of physical and mental disability, such as alcohol and drug addicts, can also be pronounced in different ways. Alcohol recidivists thus risk a mandatory driving ban or an alcohol lock. Another element is that drivers who repeatedly ban driving can now also be sentenced to prison. I think this is a very important signal. Unfortunately, we are regularly confronted with reports of dramatic accidents caused by drivers who have been caught many times driving without a valid driving licence. At some point that has to stop and there is no choice but to put the person in question in jail, so that he can certainly no longer enter traffic. A prison sentence will henceforth be one of the possibilities of the police judge. Drivers who repeatedly drive around without insurance will also be more severely dealt with after the adoption of this draft. In future, they will also be covered by the recidivism. A driver who commits two serious offences within three years will automatically be banned for at least three months and will have to take the driving test again, with medical and psychological tests. In addition, it will also be possible to impose a course as a punishment for these hard-class drivers. Furthermore, I believe that the limitation period is still an important element. The aim must, of course, be to ensure that penalties follow the offences in order to have sufficient effect on those drivers, but worse than late punishment is not punishment. Unfortunately, we still regularly see that these drivers continue to stretch procedures unnecessarily in order to allow the limitation period to expire. That will no longer be possible and must put an end to this impunity. After all, such a driver cannot be allowed to drive back on our roads without being punished. The trick of stalling time by making a statement in another language is another element addressed by this bill. These are all good elements that give the police judges more tools to deal effectively with the hard-hitting drivers they regularly see appearing in front of them. We are therefore pleased that the various ministers who have tabled the bill together are working on the appropriate punishment of these drivers who are at great risk in our traffic. We believe that these adjustments are necessary in order to achieve safer traffic, not to bully drivers, but to better address the severity of accidents that unfortunately have a serious impact on road safety. If we can avoid accidents involving reckless behaviour, many people, families and groups of friends can be spared from a great deal of misery. During the committee meetings, these proposals were widely supported across party boundaries. This draft law was unanimously adopted in the Committee on Infrastructure and we hope that it will be adopted here in the near future. In this way, we show that together, cross-party, we can tap into safer traffic, and that is a very important signal. Of course, we are counting on the further implementation and application of the draft, punishment is one thing, but we must also continue to focus on adequate enforcement and controls. We are also counting on the Minister of the Interior to do so. We hope that we will take another step forward towards safer traffic.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must work on this issue because people are not naturally civic, alas. The pedestrian angel is too prone to turn into a selfish devil at the wheel. The House of Representatives is therefore about to vote on a text on this subject, which is of particular interest to us. Belgium has set targets for reducing the number of people killed on its roads for the first time in the early 2000s. Between 2001 and 2005, Belgium was among the top 3 European countries with the highest number of deaths, behind France and Luxembourg. Since 2001, we have been holding regular meetings of the General States of Road Safety, which bring together representatives of public authorities, the private sector, road users in order to take stock of the actions, undertakings and still to take in order to make progress. In 2004, we created a road safety barometer to refine our data and obtain more accurate figures, by type of road user, based on the age or region of the victims. In 2010, a clear goal was set: to reduce the number of people killed on our roads by 50% by 2020. In the 2015 General States of Road Safety, to which our Minister is rightly attached, the goal of halving the number of road fatalities in 2010, to bring them down to 420 – 420 of course too – by 2020 has been confirmed. To this end, 15 measures have been proposed. To achieve this, the first lever of action is to combat driving under influence. The latter has changed sharply: before it was alcohol, today it was drugs. Over the course of three years, the number of people driving cocaine has increased by 62 per cent, which is huge. Unfortunately, these figures have only increased since then. The second lever aims to combat excessive speeds. Despite repeated road safety campaigns, which nevertheless have their effects even if they remain insufficient, much remains to be done. The third lever is to combat distraction. This can come from various elements: the use of gsm; inattention; fatigue while driving. With the fourth, the aim is to combat the non-wearing of the seat belt. Overall, today everyone understands that wearing the belt is important or even essential. However, there are still a number of people who do not wear it and, in particular, for so-called "short" trips. I therefore welcome the fact that the Committee on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises recently passed this bill, which makes important changes to road legislation. This bill, introduced by Minister François Bellot, makes it possible to be more severe with regard to high blood alcohol levels and recidivism. While driving without a driver's licence (more and more common) and the offence of escaping after an accident with injured or dead will, finally, be punished more heavily. In addition, this bill will enable measures to be taken to impose more severe penalties on drivers who do not comply with the road code. Finally, this bill more clearly combats the phenomenon of recidivism. Thus, the penalty may be doubled for serious and repeated offences such as driving intoxicated and driving without the right to drive. As you know, the press regularly reports cases of escape offences after a fatal accident, which shockes me deeply. The offence of escaping after an accident is often a problem unique to the incorrigible driver. That is why the maximum sentences for the time being will be doubled. As for driving alcohol, it has been one of the main causes of death on our roads for too many years. I congratulate the Minister on his objective of ensuring that these new sanctions raise awareness among drivers. Like Minister François Bellot, the MR group welcomes this bill, which, beyond the security issue, also affects our society as a whole and our understanding of this society.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u93	Mr Minister, I have been involved in the Committee on Infrastructure for some time and, unfortunately, we have to note that insecurity in traffic is still too great. We are still a long way from the maximum target of 420 fatalities by 2020. However, in recent years we have systematically tightened the punishments for drivers with alcohol in the blood, for young drivers and repeaters. On 31 January 2014, the Wathelet draft was discussed in plenary on a strengthening of road safety. What I said four years ago is actually still topical today: for my group, all the links in road safety policy are important. What do I mean by that? You don't have all the links in your hands, Minister. When it comes to road safety, it is primarily about tracking down offenders. That detection must be carried out through targeted checks, with a greater chance of getting caught, but that is the responsibility of Minister Jambon. If violations are detected, then prosecution must also be carried out by the public prosecutors. That must be done in the short term. It is important that a person who makes a mistake in traffic should be called to account in the short term. Given that the present draft extends the limitation period, it could in principle mean that the public prosecutors are waiting longer to bring offenders to court. I would like to bring that to your attention, because I do not think that it is intended that offenders should be called to account much later. I agree with what Mr Van den Bergh said, namely that the purpose of extending the limitation period is mainly to prevent impunity and to allow the offender to be held accountable to the court in any case. I therefore call on the prosecutors not to abuse the extension and not to assume that they have more time to bring offenders to the police court. In our opinion, it is still very important to play briefly on the ball. A third link is punishing it. If an offender is caught, prosecuted and brought to justice, it is important that effective, tailor-made penalties can be given. Minister, you will have read the criticism of the magistrates. They complain that the draft contains a number of obligations. For example, the court is obliged to impose an alcohol lock in certain cases. Magistrates prefer not to lose a piece of their discretion by forcing them to take certain measures. However, we have supported you in committee and we continue to support you. I'll go into the alcohol lock further later. The last link is not within your competence, namely the execution of the penalties. What good is it if all the previous steps have been taken, so that at the end of the journey it can be established that the sentence has been imposed by the judge, but that it does not matter whether the offender is punished or pays the fine. That does cause some frustration on the ground. Our judges today barely see if anyone with a criminal record and a number of traffic fines has paid their fines. A number of magistrates and prosecutors will first check whether the offender has previously been convicted and whether the fine has been paid before deciding whether an alternative sentence or a suspended sentence will be imposed. The execution of the sentences, the final link of the chain, is the responsibility of Minister Geens. This is very important to us, because if the punishments are not carried out successfully, it will destroy any policy. It is your credit, Minister, that this draft should speed up your drive towards greater road safety by fighting against drunk driving and the fight against road pirates, which Mr Van den Bergh has also spoken about. I would like to highlight a measure, the alcohol lock. The obligation to impose the alcohol lock in a number of cases is, however, the most obvious measure. When people talk about an alcohol lock in our country, they often hear the criticism that such a lock is easy to bypass and that it is far too expensive. Although an alcohol lock can theoretically be imposed since 2010, it is only applied in a limited way: only 67 alcohol locks have been installed in the last seven years. It is also striking that such a judgment is also highly territorially bound: it is constantly the same police judges who impose alcohol locks. On the other hand, the alcohol lock is never imposed in some areas. There is therefore a need for a change of attitude. I therefore call on you to launch an information campaign on this issue. Your services will have to explain that the alcohol lock can work and that the technology is about to work. It is not just about the alcohol lock itself, but also about the framework programme. I believe in that very strongly. One does not just place a device in the vehicle, there is also constant control and the person concerned has to have conversations with a psychologist for a while. So one can intervene if things don't go well and the offender goes wrong a few times. Many judges say they're cool lovers of the alcohol lock. The figures for the last seven years prove that too. However, that will have to change from 1 July. The alcohol lock is an expensive punishment. After all, it will soon be more than EUR 4 000 for the alcohol lock itself and the framework programme. Mr Minister, for someone with a limited income, this is very expensive or priceless. Hence some drivers who get an alcohol lock, do not install the alcohol lock, do not enter the program and do not drive the car anymore. They're just gonna dismiss the verdict. It is important that this can also be covered in the information campaign, so that the cost of the alcohol lock can be deducted from the fine. I believe that an alcohol lock can only be combined with a limited decay, because it must still be feasible and affordable. I agree that road safety needs to be increased, but it must also be feasible for those involved. The problem today is that we can only follow a framework programme in about a dozen establishments in our country and that only four centres can be used for the installation. Whoever got an alcohol lock must get to the scene. The offender must be able to follow the framework programme and have the alcohol lock installed at a shorter distance from the place of residence than is currently the case. I will conclude with an appeal, Minister. We often make adjustments to our traffic laws. Today we are talking about an important adjustment. The government agreement states that we must simplify our traffic legislation. After the adaptation of the legal texts and the proper tightening of some measures, that may be a next priority for you. The rules must also remain legible. I believe that the simplification of, inter alia, the Road Code, a commitment to the coalition agreement, should be a next priority, so that the traffic rules are understandable not only for magistrates but for everyone. Open Vld will vote unanimously on the draft law, as we did in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u94	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium is unfortunately among the worst student in the class when it comes to road safety. In 2016, Belgium had around 58 road deaths per million inhabitants. In the Netherlands there were 33. The United Kingdom and Germany also scored better with 28 and 39 deaths per million inhabitants respectively. The European average was 50 road deaths per million inhabitants. Since the turn of the century, there has been a steady decline in the number of road deaths in our country. However, there is still a very long way to go, because of course every road death is too much. In 2001, 1 486 road deaths were still to be regretted. In 2013, that figure had fallen. In 2016, this decreased further to 637. Our country endorsed the targets set by the States General of Road Safety, which aims to limit the number of road deaths to 420 by 2020. Why should we not want to be even more ambitious, Minister? Studies by the Vias Institute show that the majority of accidents are due to drivers' behaviour. Infrastructure deficiencies would only play a limited role in the total number of accidents. Alcohol, excessive speed, not wearing a belt, on the other hand, remain the three biggest killers in traffic. At 25% of the fatal accidents, the driver is drunk behind the wheel. The change in mentality has also had a positive impact on road safety. The PDO campaigns have proved their added value since 1995. Social disapproval of driving under the influence of alcohol has increased considerably since then. However, Minister, we must note that the percentage of drivers driving under the influence of alcohol remains far too high. An analysis of the results of the PDO campaigns may show that the number of drivers under the influence of alcohol falls annually, but the problem is that they drink heavily at the steering wheel. Preferably two thirds of the caught drivers have an alcohol content of more than 0.8 grams per litre of blood. A European study showed that 30% of Belgians see no problem driving with a glass. Our country scores far worse than the European average of 22%. Despite the change in mentality, Belgians seem to remain tolerant much more than other Europeans when it comes to drinking and driving together. Mr Minister, we in the sp.a Group are therefore extremely pleased that you have been inspired by our legislative proposals on the alcohol lock and on refugee offences, which we tabled in 2010 and 2016, respectively. We therefore hope that your draft law will be adopted unanimously today. Road safety, ladies and gentlemen, transcends the political groups. Drinking and driving is a global problem that we must tackle together. In committee, all the groups voted almost unisono in favour of the draft. Sp.a will be delighted to support your bill today, Minister. However, allow me to make a few small comments. We are pleased that the judges are now obliged to impose an alcohol lock on offenders with too high alcoholic strength from 1.8 permille onwards. We dare to go even further in this. According to the draft law, the court may limit the compulsory driving ban to one or several categories of driving licences, provided that a driving ban must be imposed on the category of vehicle in respect of which the infringement was committed. Colleagues, do we want someone who we believe is needed to drive an alcohol lock on a De Lijn bus? We believe that, as in Sweden, all professional vehicles should be fitted with an alcohol lock by default. In reply to a written question, Minister, you expressed your support for this principle. In that case, the exception that has now been worked out does not need to be made. After all, if a bus driver sentenced to an alcohol lock wants to do his job, there is no problem anymore when the bus is equipped with an alcohol lock. I am not just talking about De Lijn's vehicles but about all professional vehicles. Perhaps it sounds strange that we are arguing for a general demand on alcohol locks in professional vehicles. It has also been very strange for a long time that smoking, for example, was allowed everywhere. The time may not yet be ripe to get everyone along with the idea, but we hope that someday the time will come. Secondly, I would like to emphasise that raising the limitation period from one to two years is a good thing, but it should not be a free pass for the public to leave its business for longer. Even better than raising that limitation period, it would be better to do everything possible to have such facts brought to justice within the year. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, by adopting the draft law, we hope to provide a very strong response to the issue of road safety, in particular the issue of dealing with very serious facts, such as driving without a valid driving licence, uninsured driving, hit-and-run, repeated driving and driving under the influence of too much alcohol.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when reading the draft law on improving road safety, it seems that there are no spectacular changes at first sight. On the one hand, it concerns the extension of the limitation period in the event of a change in the role of language, with a referral as a result, which seems very logical. On the other hand, it is a question of imposing an obligation on the registration holder of a vehicle to pass on the identity of the driver in the event of an infringement. That too seems logical and obvious. What is less obvious, however, is the changes we are making to the regulation of the alcohol lock. It is good that this draft law strikes a balance between the discretion of the police judge and the clear signal that the legislator wants to send. The police judge can impose custom punishments, still, and retains his discretion. The maximum sentence will be increased. The minimum sentence will be retained. He may impose an alcohol lock in different scenarios, while driving under the influence, especially in the case of high alcohol intoxication and repeated, is more severely punished. Remarkable but after all these years with BOB campaigns we see that in our country people still drive the car under the influence. From now on, an alcohol lock will be imposed at +1.8 promille or repeatedly at 1.2 promille. One can't be clearer. Driving under the influence increases the risk of accidents, often with particularly sad consequences and fatalities. This is a measure that will indeed increase road safety. Perpetrators with alcohol problems are not endorsed. They don't want to do this to them. They want to be helped with recovery measures, with appropriate guidance. The alcohol lock is therefore seen as a punishment for people who think they will avoid alcohol controls. New in this bill is that the offender himself gets a say in his sentence. He will be given the choice between an alcohol lock or filing his driving licence for the duration of the alcohol lock. The legislator once again makes it clear to everyone that driving can only be done with an alcohol lock. Persons who do not want or are unable to install an alcohol lock, because they cannot do so in principle or financially, are still given the option of simply submitting the driving licence for that period. The draft law on the table today, therefore, actually refines the existing rules and is not merely an increase in the penalty. Increased punishment is a danger, in particular the risk of an increase in the number of escape offences. Today, we are just strengthening the police court's arsenal in order to be able to impose customized penalties, with the signal that driving under the influence is not possible, rather than simply weighing down the penalties. Emergency crimes are also avoided by proper training. We must already teach young people on the school benches that, after a traffic accident, they really cannot tolerate fleeing. This must also be taken into account in driving training and driving tests. Mr Minister, we also believe that there should be an urgent need for a driving licence with points. Soon you will come to Parliament with the results of a new study. We hope that the study will bring all spirits in the same direction and that we will also be convinced about the language limit that a driving licence with points must be issued urgently. Raising the chance of getting caught is a long-term work. This government is taking steps to make more use of this and to ensure that controls increase the chances of getting caught. The heavier traffic criminals we need to hit where it hurts. I am looking at Jef Van den Bergh's proposal for the confiscation of vehicles. We are still working in the Chamber to refine it, but that too is a very good proposal, which must be made urgently. All these things together will increase road safety. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what is before us for the vote is indeed a good signal. It will increase road safety. The N-VA Group will therefore fully support the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u96	Mr President, in order to shorten the debate, I shall speak from my bench. I understand that today, Mr. Bellot is celebrating his birthday, but in addition, it was his party, as he is likely to be unanimously supported by this chamber. The debate is very important. That is why, after considering this issue in committee, we are debating it again in plenary. But what matters most is the fifteen points that the general states of road safety had issued, Minister. Some of these are among the most important in terms of road safety, with the aim of halving the number of road fatalities. This is an ambitious goal. I would simply add that one of the important issues that is involved in this bill is the issue of alcohol and, therefore, driving under influence. I'm not talking to you about this Parliament and its drink! I am talking about driving and, above all, the harmful consequences. As far as the problem of alcohol is concerned, there are technical and technological means: alcolocks. However, we have referred in committee to the conduct under the influence of other substances. I don't name them here so I don't advertise them. However, a number of drugs and drugs and the mixing of these substances with alcohol are also unknown causes. Mr Minister, I do not believe that, since the debates in committee, we have more explicit figures that could give us some cause and effect. I therefore insist that we investigate this issue, because driving under influence is not limited to alcohol. Do not believe that today we have solved all the problems that arise! It is well known that most serious accidents leading to death are caused by such abuses. Minister, we often have interesting debates about autonomous cars and technologies that, thanks to the positive use of gps, will give us other means to limit both speed and dangerous situations in driving. However, work remains to be done. But that's no reason to ruin Mr. Bellot's party. I would be very angry, because I know how much he cares about it, Mr President, in the same way as Mr Gilkinet, who, I think, will apply the Bellot method. Mr Minister, today we can only welcome the fact that this draft decree is voted unanimously and, I hope, followed by other texts, with other ambitions. Indeed, the issue of mortality on our roads remains, for the families concerned, a terrible tragedy, which unfortunately must accompany them throughout their lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that all the sensitivities and points that have been raised in committee by colleagues are the translation of five of the fifteen recommendations of the states-general of road safety. I think this is an important step in the fight against drivers and inappropriate behaviour. A number of questions were asked in committee. For some, experience will see what this will give, for example, the time between the moment motorists are tested positive in very high margins and the time when people will be able to equip their vehicles with an anti-start ethylotest. This period should be as short as possible. The second element is that the cost announced today is in the range of €3 to €4,000 for a period of two years of the ethylometer. It can be assumed that there will be a volume effect since it is estimated that about 10,000 people are monitored each year, either above 1.8 or in recidivism of 1.2. As of 1 July, the date of entry into force of this provision will be determined. It will of course remain the choice between the non-start kilometres and the withdrawal of permits, knowing that the fines that are levied when the concentration rates are very high already amount to several thousand euros. So, it's comparable. Solutions may, of course, be envisaged, including not an immediate payment but a monthly payment, a rental rather than a total and immediate purchase. The last element is prevention, communication and explanations, for which the press and specialised media will play an important role. A final question remains to which I am very sensitive: when a driver uses more than one vehicle, which vehicle must be equipped? We have to leave the judge's assessment. It was the choice that was made, knowing that after one or two years of implementation, an evaluation would have to be carried out. I've already reported it to Vias. If it seemed necessary to equip several vehicles, this could be considered. For meeting people whose vehicles were equipped with ethylotests with an anti-start system, I note that it is of course more than just equipment; it is psychological support that is necessary to try to reduce alcohol and drug addiction. We will see what the results will be, but I imagine that people, whose job is to drive public transport, public transport and who would be verbalized by driving a bus or bus, should see their vehicle equipped. With regard to drugs, Mr Cheron, since our meeting in committee, I have obtained the information that it was possible, as with the ethylometers available to the police to measure the concentration of ethyl in the breath of drivers, in the event of mass effects, that equipment could be developed to measure the concentration of certain drugs in salivas on-line. We are going to go a little deeper with medical analysis companies, provided that it is possible to put such equipment in place, first in the police service, and eventually in the vehicles. In any case, Mr President, you have placed a draft on the agenda without looking at the anniversary date. But I would be happy to be able to count on unanimity. It is a project recommended by the states-general of road safety, which brings together all the actors, be it road safety specialists or the families of the victims of the road. Compared to the latter, it is a signal to be given. But, of course, everyone is free to make the choice that will be his or hers, in a few tens of minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u98	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u99	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2868/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2868/4) The draft law has 26 articles. The bill has 26 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u100	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u101	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u102	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u103	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as I said in committee, I think there is a broad consensus in this House to work towards the upgrading of the pension system for the self-employed. This consensus would certainly be even wider if they were self-employed people with the lowest pensions, those who often border the poverty line. It is true that, according to the Syndicat national des indépendants, an independent person receives an average pension of 857 euros per month. An employee receives approximately 1,200 euros. Everyone agrees that these small amounts are unacceptable after a working life. We must work together to enable these pensioners to live in dignity. In fact, we believe that all pensions and social benefits should be re-aligned to the level of the poverty line. I have stressed in committee the philosophy that we have in this area. We want greater solidarity between the self-employed and, within the self-employed population, between the different income classes. The strengthening of the first pillar could guarantee this solidarity among all the independents. The project presented here does not follow this path. The question arises: will this law allow the low- and middle-income self-employed to improve their standard of living and the amount of their pension? We don't think so. If we rank the tax levers for the self-employed, we find that the second pillar, which is proposed here, will be less advantageous than the possibilities of subsidized savings that are already available to self-employed individuals. Therefore, it will be the self-employed who benefit from the highest incomes, who already exhaust the savings faculties subsidized under the supplementary free pension for self-employed persons (PLCI), or pension savings, who will have an interest in using this new system in addition to the others. The PLCI is tax deductible at 100%, which is obviously more advantageous than the system proposed here, the deductibility of which is 30%. As I said, the Socialist Group fully associates itself with the objective of revaluing pensions. We hear the views of the middle classes and the independents who supported the measure. We are also sensitive to the argument that the difference in treatment between self-employed individuals and self-employed individuals who have chosen to form a company, the directors of a company, should be removed. On the other hand, we note that the government is holding on to the figures which are a double or even triple speech about the beneficiaries of this measure. In the press and in the Chamber, you say that "this second pillar will benefit 430,000 self-employed individuals". And you add that these figures are confirmed by the INASTI and the Plan Bureau. It's a first version. But when you go to pension organizations and insurance brokers to advertise your measure, you know that you have an informed audience in front of you and your version is more modest. This version, we know it because the insurer Degauquier & Partners, which I quoted in committee, relayed it on his website. So I quote the insurance company: "The experts in the firm estimate that there are 155,000 potential independents who could enter the system. These are self-employed persons who report income above EUR 30 000 per year, considering that below this level their income is not sufficient to enable them to contribute." In addition to this second version, the third version is the "budgetary" version, i.e. you are asking the Minister of Finance for €12 million. Following the debates in committee, I can admit that this amount is planned for half a year since the scheme would apply to 1 July next. But there are no more 430,000 independents or 155,000. We are talking about 17,000 independents, at least according to our experts and the information in our possession. The latter number of self-employed persons, in this case the 4 per cent who are the most fortunate among the 430,000 self-employed individuals originally mentioned, would therefore be around. It is therefore true that this is very different from the picture of the measure you are presenting to us. As regards the budget and the EUR 12 million entered in it, Mr Bacquelaine, in committee, you said that you are planning a monitoring mechanism to be able to adjust this amount. The Court of Auditors, in its examination of the 2018 budget, had indicated that it had not received a calculation note and that it was not in a position to verify the validity of the figure advanced. You confirmed this to us during the debates, admitting that you were not able to estimate the number of independents involved, and therefore to predict the budgetary impact. There are two things: either this budget is completely underestimated, or this measure will benefit only a very small number of self-employed people. We have a problem with how this matter is presented to the House and to public opinion. The budgetary impact is minimized and the social impact is exaggerated. We also believe that this mechanism will benefit only those who need it the least. That is why the Socialist Group will abstain from this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u104	The present draft fulfills a promise from the coalition agreement. The government has finally taken serious steps to improve the ordinary pension of the self-employed. That was high time. There is still work to be done, but we are moving in the right direction. The present design also means another step in the right direction. It is a very logical step for a lot of self-employed people, when things are starting to work out, to move from one-man business to a company, just because of the supplementary pension scheme. One could use the VAPZ and I am glad that that good element is retained, because it provides a first addition to the pension....................................................................................................................................................................................... In a company, however, a much wider supplementary pension could be built up through an IPT. That was the incentive for many self-employed people to switch to the company. This incentive is now losing its strength, because even in the case of a one-man case one can now build up a larger supplementary pension. That is a very good thing. Mr Delizée, I hope that as many self-employed people as possible will do so. It is a sign that their business is going well, that they are making a profit and that they can put some aside, so the more, the merrier. I am also very pleased with the commitment in the committee of both Minister Bacquelaine and Minister Ducarme that, when the framework is being drawn up, they will not again burden the insurance sector with all kinds of extra rules that are not necessary, which only cause nuisance, extra paperwork and costs. We must keep it as simple as possible, with good information, of course, because every self-employed person who starts it must know what it is about. There are already far too many rules in the insurance sector, and I am glad that the ministers have made a firm commitment not to go beyond what Europe is imposing, because that is a good directive. I am therefore pleased that we will stick to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u105	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this bill puts an end to discrimination against the creation of supplementary pension rights between self-employed individuals on the one hand and self-employed entrepreneurs on the other. To date, only employees and managers had access to the second pension pillar. The self-employed who subscribes to this system may, subject to the 80 % tax limit, benefit from a tax reduction of 30 % on the premiums paid. Supplementary pension benefits will also be taxed at a separate rate of 10%. The project presented today offers real freedom of choice between the various insurancial products that will be offered to subscribers. This measure is an additional step towards the generalisation of supplementary pensions and the harmonisation of schemes as provided for in the government agreement. It should be recalled that this Government has already taken many measures to improve the social status of self-employed workers and, in particular, their pensions. In fact, under this legislature, the minimum pension of an isolated self-employed person increased by 160 euros per month. The extension of the second pillar to all self-employed is an important step towards making the status even more attractive. I would like to point out here that the organisations representing the self-employed welcome this measure very positively. The desire to ensure a better level of pension for self-employed workers has been a priority for many years. Finally, the scope of this project is not insignificant: from now on, more than 400 000 self-employed individuals will have access to the second pension pillar. Therefore, for these various reasons, our group will support this project led by our ministers Daniel Bacquelaine and Denis Ducrame.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u106	Last legislative term, several efforts have rightly been made to upgrade the pension of the self-employed. I am thinking here of the equalization of the minimum pensions of self-employed workers with those of employed persons. This was an important effort to strengthen the statutory pension of the self-employed. We support the proposal that will be voted on today. After all, we see that it can be a strengthening of the supplementary pension for the self-employed. Unfortunately, the statutory pension for self-employed persons is only about 850 euros per month on average. The average pension of a self-employed person remains therefore very low compared to other schemes. Therefore, the supplementary pension scheme under the second pillar can be an important help to strengthen the pension. We have already pointed out a few years ago that the supplementary pension currently exists only for company managers and not for self-employed natural persons. This draft law finally eliminates this discrimination. We therefore wholeheartedly support it. For example, self-employed natural persons, as well as assisting spouses and helpers, can also have access to the second pension pillar. Then, hopefully, they too will be able to build up a stronger pension in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u107	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would have liked to make a few formal points before going on to make a number of substantive comments on this draft law. The bill itself was posted online on the Monday in the week of the planned committee meeting. Less than forty-eight hours later it was processed by the committee responsible. The draft law in question was not even available during its examination by the committee responsible. In addition, the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber were violated. The draft law was put to the vote and a number of amendments were tabled in plenary. If I am not mistaken, this procedure is contrary to Rule 82 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives. In other words, the draft law could not be adopted until at least 48 hours and on the basis of a draft adopted text incorporating all the amendments adopted. I would therefore like to recommend this to my fellow Members: if we expect our citizens to comply with the rules of the game of our society, then we must at least respect our own rules. I now come to my comments on the content. I can safely assume that this draft law was drafted and submitted with the best of intentions. Indeed, there are still a lot of small self-employed people who find it difficult to make ends meet and have to be careful how to spend their money. Competition is murderous and ruthless, and as a result there are many self-employed people who have a small pension. It has to be said that the statutory pension for self-employed persons is still inadequate. With the supplementary pension, the majority now hopes to eliminate some discrimination once and for all, in favour of 432 000 self-employed people. That is a very noble objective, but is it realistic and will the discriminations be eliminated? If we look at the proposed method, we must make a number of observations. The capital must be built up entirely by the self-employed. The return is obtained through the financial markets, which are currently very low. Consequently, the scheme only appears to be fiscally advantageous. The key question is, of course, whether the small self-employed who are already struggling has the financial resources to make the necessary contributions to that additional tax-subsidised product. We therefore fear that the draft law will only benefit a select club of more middle-aged self-employed people and that the real losers will remain in the cold. Instead of eliminating discrimination, new ones are being created, which will only deepen the gap between the two groups. Unfortunately, on the basis of these arguments, we cannot approve the draft law. We shall abstain in the vote. To refute the cliché that sp.a would be against the self-employed, I would like to emphasise that we are in favour of equal treatment of pensions, but on the basis of equal rights and obligations for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u108	Mr. Chairman, in addition to the discussion we had in committee on this bill, I wanted to recall some important elements in my group's view. First, everything about the social status of the self-employed is a major political concern for us. For at least two and a half years now that I have been present in the Committee on Economy, at the hearings of the representatives of the independents – be it the SNI, the UCM, the UNIZO – the social status, and in particular pensions systematically return to their concerns as the absolute priority in the improvements that must be made to the status of self-employed. This is clearly a priority for us in the political improvement of the social status of the self-employed. This bill, for us, is important because it is trying in part to respond to it. We really care about some of the elements of this text, but we also have a few comments and questions. The second point, to which this text responds in part again, is the inequality which exists today, de facto, between an employee's pension and the pension of an independent person. This has already been pointed out by other colleagues. There was also another unequal treatment between the self-employed and the self-employed. The self-employed person could benefit from schemes such as the one proposed, whereas the self-employed person could not benefit from them. To allow for the harmonisation of social protections and pensions is also a major political objective for us. The preferred method is to work with financial products, whether branch 21 or branch 23. We talked about it in committee. It's certainly not our favorite tool. We continue to call for the upgrading of the first pillar of pensions. That is what we would have done if we had been completely at the manoeuvring. This remains a key political priority. However, the existing instruments, such as the PCLI, still allow many independents to have a much more dignified pension, which corresponds to the many years of actual work before they can receive a pension. It is true that in committee we had a debate on the figures in order to know the number of independents who would benefit from them. A figure of over 400,000 people was cited. Mr Delizée has given other figures ranging from 150,000 to much less. There is, of course, a need at some point for a quantitative assessment of the impact of this measure and, above all, of the independent profile that this will affect. Indeed, we all know this here and we repeat it quite often in the Committee on the Economy: about a third of the independents of our country today live around the poverty line. This is a situation that we all want to improve. We will therefore have to have this debate on the number of beneficiaries. We also call for an evaluation, in one year for example, of how this measure will be welcomed by the independents themselves. What guy? What profile of self-employed? Will this really be the richest 3 or 4 percent or will the reception be wider as was the case with the PCLI? It will be important to have this debate. We are eager to be able to measure the effectiveness of this measure, because we share its political objective of increasing the pension of the self-employed. Again, this may not be the path we would have preferred. Because we believe that it is still moving in the right direction, because we are seeking an evaluation of the effectiveness of the measure, because it will clearly improve the situation of tens of thousands of self-employed people in this country and reduce inequalities in treatment, my group and I will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief because the debate in committee has been relatively constructive and consensual. The bill under consideration therefore relates to a matter that is dear to us, namely, the social status of the self-employed. We are very much in favour of improving this status, especially since, when we examined the bill and the interventions of the employers' or professional federations of the self-employed or representative bodies, we were able to see that they were also in favour of it. While the text, as proposed to us, puts an end to some kind of discrimination, it is mainly concerned with harmonising the status of the self-employed so that they can benefit from a better pension. This therefore puts an end to the difference in pension entitlement between self-employed persons established in a natural person and those established in a company. We are also pursuing the political objective of aligning the pension for the self-employed through this second pillar, which is proposed to us and which will be offered to the self-employed, the independent spouses and the self-employed as a complement. These are the reasons why, as we have done in committee, we will support the text before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u110	Mr President, I wanted to tell you that Messrs. Van Overtveldt, Ducrame and I are pleased to introduce a bill that improves the status of the self-employed and supports the generalization of the second pillar as well as supplementary pensions. In our view, this is essential. In this regard, I would like to recall some important points. First of all, this is the philosophy of supplementary pensions. On the semantic level, this concept implies the idea of complementarity. Otherwise, it would be called otherwise. The aim is that people who make up a supplementary pension can live their retirement in a way close to the way of life that was theirs when they worked. Of course, our intention is not to oppose the statutory pension and the supplementary pension, but rather to work on complementarity. It goes without saying that strengthening the legal pension is absolutely essential. We have done so, by raising the minimum pension – as Mr Friart reminded us. It has been increased not only for employees, but even more for the self-employed: 160 euros per month since the beginning of the legislature – for a full pension which, today, amounts to 1,220 euros, an amount above the poverty line for an isolated person. This is, moreover, one of the objectives we wanted to achieve. Secondly, whether the supplementary pensions concern employees, managers or, now, independent natural persons, they remain proportional to the wage. This is the very definition of the 80% rule, which will allow the person who receives a high wage to contribute more – that is unquestionable. The proportion is based on this rule, since it is a question of increasing the replacement rate, which is always calculated on the basis of salary. Obviously, if you have an average salary, the rate of 80% will allow you to have an average pension. If you have a low salary, the replacement rate will allow you to have a pension online with your last salary. It's a fact. If you have a high salary, the replacement rate and the 80% rule will allow you to further increase your supplementary pension and will also require you to pay a little tax. You have to call him back from time to time. Here is a reminder of the philosophy of supplementary pension. I believe that responds to Mr Delizée's argument. And I complete by saying that Mr Delizée is right to insist on the lowest pensions. I fully agree with that, but it is essentially the role of the legal pension that needs to be gradually revalued and in a way that is compatible with all State budgets. In all the pension reforms we are undertaking, we aim to move towards more equality and less discrimination, to gradually eliminate unfair situations. There are some in the current pension system. You know like me that people who have worked their whole lives as self-employed sometimes have less pensions than people who have worked much less. We want to combat all these discriminations. In this case, there was discrimination between company managers on the one hand and natural persons on the other. There was discrimination between those who were not entitled to a supplementary pension and those who were entitled to a supplementary pension. We remove this discrimination. It's important! How many people will this concern? It is again the 80% rule that determines it. And by the force of things, if people have incomes that do not allow them to go beyond the PLCI, for example, they will not participate in a supplementary pension. However, self-employed status has one particular feature: income is not fixed. Therefore, when it is said that potentially 430,000 people are affected by the measure, that is totally correct. In fact, Mr. Delizée, you cannot prejudge that any of these 430,000 people will not, one day, generate significant income through their self-employment. And since the 80% rule applies to the average of the last three years of pay, it obviously fluctuates over the course of his career. It is possible for an independent person not to contribute throughout his or her career, but to contribute when he or she can. It is the very specificity of the status of the self-employed, who does not have a fixed income and who is not necessarily involved throughout his career. This cannot be prejudged. We have to stay in correct estimates. We have therefore set up a monitoring system to monitor the budgetary and fiscal aspects of this measure. These are the few remarks I wanted to make, Mr President. In conclusion, the aim is to move towards more generalisation of the second pillar and more harmonisation between regimes. This measure contributes to this. It also ensures that the transition to society, for an independent person, is not driven primarily by pension problems, but is based on economic parameters relating to the self-employed's activity. We know that many independents decide to go into company, especially for the supplementary pension aspect. It wasn't very logical, and it wasn't good for the communes, Mr. Delizée. I know you're a municipalist, too. The revenue of the municipalities comes from natural persons and not from companies. This project is more favourable to the municipalities. It is an indirect, but real, effect that I wanted to highlight with this final remark. Thank you for your attention. Mr. Ducarme and/or Mr. Van Overtveldt may wish to provide further information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u111	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Smaers and Mr Klaps for their support here and in committee. Of course, Mr Klaps, we agree: the obligation to provide information will not be heavy or useless for the sector. This ensures that the policy holders make a correct choice. I would also like to inform Mr Casier at the outset that the draft was distributed not on Mondays, but on Fridays. It was online on Friday, 19. The amendments to which you referred were not tabled by the government but by the parliamentary majority. On some projects the divisions are out of date. This is rare enough to be stressed. I would therefore like to thank Mr Vanden Burre and Mr de Lamotte for their objectivity. He said – it is important to note – that all the organisations representing the self-employed are in favour of this project. Mr Délizée, that still means something. We can agree on a number of elements. This is the object of this government's entire action to improve the social status of the self-employed. Without going back to all the measures, I can recall what we have done with regard to the months of failure, the sickness benefits, which are no longer paid after a month but after 14 days; what we voted here, again a fortnight ago, on the new thresholds for the self-employed, the reduction of thresholds for independent starters. It is clear that these are measures that we are in a position to take today in this Parliament, which was not necessarily the case – these policies in favour of the self-employed and their social status – in the past. And I, Mr Delizée, know you, as a socialist, are opposed to discrimination. I am therefore surprised that you and the Socialist Group, as we put an end to discrimination here, indicate your intention to abstain. I do not understand this and I think that the self-employed will find it difficult to understand that you do not support a new policy that tends to put an end to discrimination between the self-employed and all other categories of workers. In this context, I would also like to go back to what my colleague, Mr Bacquelaine, has said. The life of an independent, as we know, is not a "long, quiet river". There are more flourishing moments, more difficult ones, and so one must observe the career of an independent not statically, but dynamically; what you are not doing fully, I think. Self-employed persons who, at one time, will probably not be able to save for the second pension pillar, will be able to do so at another time. Perhaps encouraged more by the fact that they will be able to contribute for the previous 10 years, retroactively, and not just for year N. This is an important element and I have the feeling that you do not fully consider it. I would also like to thank Mr Vanden Burre for his constructive work, both in committee and here in plenary. It is true that you have questions, Mr. Vanden Burre, regarding the possibilities that will be those of the self-employed to work on branch 21 or branch 23, with branch 21 guaranteeing an income, Branch 23 being a more risky product. The aim is to give the independent the widest possible choice and to give him additional freedom. It seems to me that this project, which puts an end to this discrimination, will be an advantage for the self-employed by offering them more equality at the level of their pension, even if in incomprehensible way the PS abstains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u112	Colleagues, is anyone asking for the floor for a reply? I call Mr Delizée.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u113	Mr President, I shall be brief, because I think that the subject certainly does not require controversy. I think that on the day when, collectively, we can eliminate the income of pensioners below the poverty line, we will really have eliminated very great social discrimination. As I said, for us, the first pillar is the priority. Others said so, too. It's a more supportive system. In any case, we believe that there is a need for a more cohesive system between the different income classes of the self-employed. With regard to the supplementary tax lever, it is clear that if there are 100% deductible tax levers and 30% tax levers, it is first the 100% deductibility tools that will be chosen. The potential beneficiaries of this new system will be those who have exhausted the other tools. It'll have to be the ones with the highest incomes. Discrimination is not removed by this project, except, I recognise, between natural persons and company managers. That is why we abstain. This is not the way we would have chosen to improve the pension of the self-employed in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u114	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u115	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2891/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (28914) The draft law contains 72 articles. The bill has 72 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u116	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u117	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sebastian Pirlot, Julie Fernandez Fernandez, Stéphane Crusnière, Eric Thiébaut, Jacques Chabot, Georges Dallemagne. The Committee on Defence proposes that this motion for a resolution be rejected. (2737/3) The Committee on National Defence proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (2737/3) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Mr Vandenput is the rapporteur. He's not here. Does Mr Pirlot or any other petitioner wish to speak? [[No, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u118	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u119	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Alain Top, Dirk Van der Maelen. The Committee on Defence proposes that this motion for a resolution be rejected. (2723/2) The Committee on National Defence proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (2723/2) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. The rapporteurs were Messrs. Hellings and Crusnière, who are not present. So we're going back to Mr. Top. Mr Top, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, nuclear weapons are far from finished. That turned out to be the case with President Trump's Nuclear Posture Review this week. Also before President Trump took office, the Americans announced that they wanted to modernise the nuclear arsenal, for more than USD 1 billion. If our country does not give a clear signal today or in the coming weeks, the B61 nuclear bombs on our territory will also be renewed. The world that we have in mind for our children and grandchildren is, of course, a safe world, but one without nuclear weapons. Nor should we forget that the United States is the only country in the world to plant nuclear weapons on other people's territory. We also support the American military industry by modernising the bombs on our territory. The profits go directly to American private companies. Colleagues, nuclear weapons have also been removed from Europe since 2001, including Greece, Germany and the United Kingdom. That this would not be possible because of international obligations is not a conclusive argument. Even more, since 7 July 2017, 122 countries have signed an international nuclear ban. This government wishes to buy both new fighters and to make efforts to achieve nuclear disarmament in the world. Colleagues, the logical conclusion from these two passages should be that future fighter aircraft should not carry nuclear bombs. In other words, the transport of nuclear bombs must be excluded. The resolution before us calls for a ban on the possibility of equiping the future fighter aircraft, which my group does not want to see clearly, with dual-use capacity. Colleagues from the majority, Mrs Grosemans and Mr Vandenput, during a debate organised by Pax Christi in 2016, also indicated that as far as they were concerned, new fighter planes do not need nuclear capacity. If the future fighter jets do not have that capacity, nuclear weapons in Kleine Brogel will become superfluous. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the coalition agreement and the similar opinion of some members of the majority, I expect us to be able to send a clear signal to a nuclear-free world today through this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u121	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the motion to reject the motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u122	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Carina Van Cauter, Sonja Becq, Peter Dedecker, Gilles Foret.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u123	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Özen, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u124	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2913/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2913/4) The bill has 6 articles. The bill has 6 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u125	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u126	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 February 2018 and at the request of the committee, I propose to you the proposal for a resolution (Mr Daniel Senesael, Mrs Fabienne Winckel and Mr Jean-Marc Delizée) on the implementation of a joint strategy for the banning of arthropods, No. 2856/1, to be referred to the Committee on Health, the Environment and Social Renewal in order to add it to the proposals concerning bisphenol No. 1228/1 and hormone-distorting substances No. 1367/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 February 2018 and at the request of the committee, I propose that you refer to the Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society, the motion for a resolution (Mr Daniel Senesael, Ms Fabienne Winckel and Mr Jean-Marc Delizée) to implement a concerted strategy to abolish glyphosate, No 2856/1 in order to attach it to the proposals on bisphenol No 1228/1 and endocrine disruptors No 1367/1. The proposal was sent to the Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the national scientific and cultural institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture on 11 January 2018. This proposal was referred on 11 January 2018 to the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u127	The lists of three candidates proposed by the Council of State, for the first and third vacant posts of the State Council in the French language framework, were communicated to you at the plenary session of 25 January 2018. The lists of three candidates nominated by the Council of State for the first and third vacant seats of State Councillor in the Francophone linguistic group were communicated to you during the plenary session on January 25, 2018. Since both nominations are not unanimous, the Chamber of Representatives may, in accordance with Article 70 (1), eighth paragraph, of the laws of the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, either confirm the list proposed by the Council of State or propose another list of three names within a maximum period of 30 days from the date of receipt of the nomination, whichever is the earlier. Since the presentation is not unanimous for either of the two presentations, the House of Representatives may, in accordance with Article 70, § 1, paragraph 8, of the Acts on the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, within a period not exceeding 30 days from the date of receipt of that presentation, either confirm the list submitted by the Council of State or present another list of three names which is formally motivated. After consulting the chairmen of the political groups, I propose not to propose alternative lists. After consultation with the group leaders, I propose that you do not present alternative lists. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u128	On 10 January 2018, the Law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority was published in the Belgian Official Gazette. This institution is the successor to the Commission for the Protection of Privacy. The law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority was published in the Belgian Moniteur on 10 January 2018. This institution succeeds the Privacy Commission. Article 7 of that Act provides that the Data Protection Authority shall be composed of six bodies: - a committee of directors; - a general secretariat; - a first-line service, - a centre of knowledge, - an inspection service, - a dispute chamber. Article 7 of the Act stipulates that the Data Protection Authority shall consist of six bodies: - a steering committee; - a general secretariat; - a front-line service; - a knowledge centre; - an inspection service; - a contentious room. The Chamber of Representatives should appoint the members of the Management Committee, the members of the Knowledge Centre and the members of the Dispute Chamber. They shall be appointed for a renewable six-year period. The House of Representatives shall appoint the members of the Management Committee, the members of the Knowledge Centre and the members of the Litigation Chamber. They shall be appointed for a term of six years renewable once. In the light of Article 110 of the Act, a call to candidates should be published in the Belgian Official Journal no later than one month after publication of the Act, i.e. by 10 February 2018. Pursuant to Article 110 of the Law, a call for candidates must be published in the Belgian Monitor no later than one month after the publication of the Law, therefore no later than 10 February 2018. An independent reflection board is also added to the Data Protection Authority whose composition is to be determined by the Chamber of Representatives and appointed by the members. An independent think tank is also attached to the Data Protection Authority. Its composition shall be determined by the House of Representatives and its members designated by it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u129	The Management Committee shall be composed of the Director of the General Secretariat, the Director of the First Division, the Director of the Knowledge Centre, the Inspector General and the Chairman of the Dispute Chamber. The Management Committee shall consist of the Director of the General Secretariat, the Director of the Front Line Service, the Director of the Knowledge Centre, the Inspector General and the President of the Litigation Chamber. They shall perform their duties full-time. They shall perform their duties on a full-time basis. The Management Committee has as many Dutch-speaking members as French-speaking members, with the exception of the Chairman of the Dispute Chamber. The executive committee has as many French-speaking as Dutch-speaking members, the chairman of the contentious chamber except.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u130	The knowledge centre is composed of six members and one director. The knowledge centre is composed of six members and one director. There are as many Dutch-speaking members as French-speaking members. A maximum of two thirds of the members shall be of the same sex. There are as many Francophone and Dutch-speaking members. A maximum of two thirds of the members are of the same sex.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u131	The dispute chamber shall be composed of a President and six members of whom: - two members with in-depth knowledge of the protection of personal data; - two members with in-depth knowledge of administrative dispute procedures; - two members with in-depth knowledge of information security and information and communication technologies. The litigious chamber shall consist of a chairman and six members, of whom: - two members with extensive knowledge in the field of personal data protection; - two members with extensive knowledge in the field of administrative litigation; - two members with extensive knowledge in the field of information security and information and communication technologies. The six members of the dispute chamber are appointed in an equal number per language role and at least one member must have a functional knowledge of German. The six members of the litigious chamber shall be appointed in equal number by linguistic role and at least one member shall have a functional knowledge of German. The conditions of appointment of the members of the Management Committee, the Knowledge Centre and the Dispute Chamber shall be laid down in Articles 36 and 38 of the Law of 3 December 2017. The conditions of appointment for members of the Management Committee, the Knowledge Centre and the Litigation Chamber are set out in sections 36 and 38 of the Act of 3 December 2017. In accordance with Article 50 of this Act, the Chamber of Representatives shall determine the remuneration of members of the Management Committee and the remuneration of members of the Knowledge Centre and of the Dispute Chamber. In accordance with article 50 of the Act, the House of Representatives shall determine the remuneration of the members of the Management Committee and the allowance of the members of the Knowledge Centre and the Chamber of Litigation. A bill was tabled to include the remuneration and allowances of members in the law itself. We have just discussed this and the vote will take place shortly. A bill has been tabled in order to incorporate into the law the remuneration and allowances of members. We have just examined it and the vote will take place in a few moments. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 February 2018, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal of 12 February 2018 for the mandates of a member of the Executive Committee, the Knowledge Centre and the Dispute Chamber. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 February 2018, I propose that you publish a call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor of 12 February 2018 for the terms of office of member of the Management Committee, the Knowledge Centre and the Chamber of Litigation. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. For the mandates of a member of the Management Committee, I propose that candidates who cannot provide evidence of a functional knowledge of the other national language and of English through a language certificate or an additional diploma in one of those languages be invited to a language test. For the terms of office as a member of the Management Committee, I propose that candidates who cannot provide proof of functional knowledge of the other national language and English through a language certificate or a complementary diploma in one of these languages be invited to take a language examination. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u132	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I consider it accepted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u133	Mr President, I would like to ask for urgent consideration of the legislative proposal No. 2926, tabled by Mrs Wouters and myself, which deals with the now notorious facilities story in Ronse. At the end of last year, a motion was passed in the city council of Ronse, asking for the facilities to be abolished. The motion was approved by the cartel CD&V/Green, by the Open Vld and by the N-VA, i.e. the majority. Flemish Interest supported the motion from the opposition and the sp.a abstained. We are asking for urgency for several reasons. The Ronse City Council approved the motion for a resolution with a view to the October municipal elections. So it would be very good if the Ronsenaars know where they stand and know if this is actually meant by CD&V, by Open Vld and N-VA, or if this, on the contrary, is bad Ronsian theatre, which is more appropriate for the carnival, which we in Ronse call "the bombs," so not carnival. So I want to know whether this attitude is serious or not. I would like this problem to be at least negotiable. The majority, the college of mayors and ships and the city council ask to be heard by the politicians, in order to be able to discuss this, in order to address why these facilities are particularly damaging for the city of Ronse. That is why I am asking for urgency and I certainly expect the support of my former colleagues from the N-VA. After all, I read in Knack that two of them are literally in agreement with every word of our proposal. I therefore assume that at least these two copycats will support our request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u134	I propose that you take a stand on the request for an emergency. I ask those who support the emergency to rise.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u135	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 February 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mr Marcel Cheron and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mrs Evita Willaert and Mr Georges Gilkinet) to improve access to second-line legal assistance by increasing the income ceilings in force, No. 2931/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u136	- the legislative proposal (Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Kristof Calvo) extending the right of bridging for selfemployed persons who voluntarily cease their activity, No. 2984/1. - the legislative proposal (Mr Vincent Van Peteghem) amending the law of 27 May 2014 on the language frameworks for certain members of foreign scientific staff contract of employment contracted in the federal scientific institutions, No. 2937/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u137	- the legislative proposal (Mr Roel Deseyn c.s) amending the law of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications with regard to the usage ceiling, No. 2936/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u138	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 February 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (MM. Stefaan Van Hecke, Marcel Cheron and Jean-Marc Nollet, Ms Evita Willaert and Mr Georges Gilkinet) improving access to second-line legal aid by increasing the financial thresholds for accessibility, No 2931/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u139	- the bill (MM. Gilles Vanden Burre and Kristof Calvo) to extend the right of access for self-employed persons who voluntarily cease their activity, No. 2934/1. - the bill (Mr. Vincent Van Peteghem) amending the Act of 27 May 2014 on language frameworks for certain foreign scientific collaborators engaged by contract of employment in federal scientific institutions, No. 2937/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u140	- the draft law (Mr Roel Deseyn et al.) amending the Act of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications with regard to the ceiling of use, No. 2936/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u141	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u142	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Public Health, Environment and Renewal Committee of the Society on January 31, 2018. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and the Social Renewal of 31 January 2018. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 236/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. André Frédéric; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 326/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr André Frédéric; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u143	Mr President, our colleague, Benoît Piedboeuf, is on a mission. I agreed to pair with him.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u144	Mr President, I have agreed to join Mrs Kattrin Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u145	Mr. Chairman, I have not agreed to pair with anyone, but I would like to justify the motion for recommendation that I have tabled. Colleagues, for the umpteenth time, I had the opportunity, the pleasure and the advantage of asking the Minister of Health about internship places for medical students. You will be surprised to know his answer, each time identical: "It is not my fault. It's that of Mrs. Onkelinx and her predecessors." I don't know if you realize how he's carrying out his responsibilities! But I understand that in her wanderings, it is easier to blame others than to take on the choices made on a daily basis. These choices consist of savings in health care budgets, on the backs of patients, hospital institutions and health professionals. I will therefore point out, ladies and gentlemen – and you must pay attention to this problem which affects us all from the north to the south and, in particular, in rural areas – that there is a lack of internship places. Two thousand students are announced in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation; the two cohorts are coming. There is still no efficient solution. I'm asking for it, but there isn't one. Those placed on the table are described as "absurd" by the Fédération des étudiants francophones – I dare not say so – and "scandalous" by the ABSyM. What do we recommend? I am sure that you will support this motion because it supports the Minister of Health in obtaining sufficient budgets to address this major problem. It is recommended that useful consultations continue with federated entities, university representatives, students, medical unions so that adequate responses can be found to the lack of internship places or traineeships and financial resources due to the dual cohort. Secondly, it is recommended that the necessary budgets be made available and solutions quickly put on the table to ensure the future of all medical students by guaranteeing them quality internship places. A recommendation, Mr. Chair, that is wise, thoughtful and supportive of the Minister. I have no doubt that I will meet with the support of a large majority of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u146	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u147	Yes 73 Yes No. 49 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 126 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Mr Vercamer has voted in favour. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Mr Nollet, are you asking for the floor on the order of business?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u148	Mr President, there is a doubt that the majority is not in number, despite the counting of the two pairs. I ask you to organise, as last time, the vote that will allow us to clarify the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u149	Good accounts make good friends!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u150	Mr President, I can supplement my request with what happened this week in the Conference of Presidents and which was told to us by Mr Laaouej, who is absent today. Clearly, when it comes to respecting the minimum rights of the opposition, this is not taken into account. It is a matter of keeping count, and it seems to me important that we can do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u151	Be clear, Mr. Nollet! What are you asking for? I note that the House is in number and that the vote has taken place. I can only conclude that the Chamber is in number. Mr Nollet, I give you the floor for the last time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u152	Mr President, the result of the vote is no longer shown, but the vote appears to have shown 73 votes in favour. I consider that two pairs can be added since two pairs have been announced. That's 75, which is not 76.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u153	Mr Vercamer added his vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u154	I then add Mr Vercamer that I had not counted in view of the figure that appeared there. You're just 76, I think, at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u155	Mr Nollet, the pure and simple motion was adopted in due form. The only thing that can happen now is that some members leave the hemisphere. We can then check whether or not we have 76 Members present. [[I have no choice but to proceed with the vote.]] We're still voting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u156	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 31 January 2018. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 31 January 2018. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 249/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Goedele Uyttersprot and Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 249/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms Goedele Uyttersprot and Messrs. Jean-Jacques Flahaux and Servais Verherstraeten. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? [[No]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u157	Yes [[80]] Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 126 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u158	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 123 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2835/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2835/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u159	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 125 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2852/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2852/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u160	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 124 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2863/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2863/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u161	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 122 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2865/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2865/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u162	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u163	Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2868/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2868/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u164	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 96 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 31 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2891/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2891/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u165	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u166	Mr President, I shall briefly explain my vote, since the debate has already taken place earlier. As I had the opportunity to recall, the decision on the replacement of the F-16s is scheduled for 14 February. In view of the answers that have been given to me in the last few days, the French proposal seems to be in jeopardy. We will therefore remain, on the one hand, the Brexit proposal and, on the other, the trompist – which is twice as expensive. Colleagues, on February 14th, it's tomorrow. But it's not too late. Our text calls for a reinvigoration of the procedure and, above all, to strengthen and favour military collaboration - both operationally and humanly and industrially - with the Member States of the European Union. We also call for a strong involvement of the Regions in this military programming law, which, let us recall, amounts to EUR 9.5 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, if you, like us, are interested in Defence Europe and if you feel concerned about jobs in the region, I have no doubt that you will support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u167	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[74]] Yes No. [[39]] No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 2737/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 2737/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u168	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 75 Yes No. 49 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 2723/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 2723/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u169	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 123 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2913/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2913/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-08-54-plenair-ip214x.u170	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 22 February 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, February 22, 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 22 February 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 22 February 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
