ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u1	Mr Minister, my questions have, of course, been tabled a while ago. It has also been a while since we had the opportunity to ask questions in committee. At the end of last year, you announced a package of new measures on pensions. The abolition of the exceptional measures to build up pension rights for the unemployed should generate savings of EUR 20 million in 2019. For other structural measures, the figures are still not clear. More than that, it is completely unclear what measures it will take. In the meantime, we know that the abolition of the unit of career for those who started working for their 20th birthday should bring about some EUR 74 million from 2019 to 2023, because according to the estimate received by the Treasury Inspectorate, the sentence for those who become unemployed after a full career is ten times greater than the remuneration for those who remain on the job for more than 45 years. By 2023, the cost price will increase to 8 142 120 euros, compared to a yield of as much as 80 million euros. This means a saving of EUR 74 million. On the basis of the preliminary draft law on the heavy-duty professions in the public sector, we will come back to that in a moment. We already know that many systems of early retirement for civil servants will fade out and that the envelopes for the heavy-duty professions will be very small: 40 million in 2019, 70 million in 2020. According to the figures communicated at the end of last year and also included in the Summer Agreement documents, 52 million euros and 274 million euros should be saved in 2018 and 2019. The measures you are going to take are on top of the measures people have had to take for the past three years. I have the following questions, Minister. Can you clarify what measures it is going to take and how much each measure will have to bring about in order to ensure that the budget is correct? You must be honest with the people. How deep will you cut pensions in the future to reach that 325 million? Is the measure for the purchase of years of study already included? This is not structural, because it is particularly expected to receive large one-off contributions. How do you reconcile these great savings with the claim of at least one of the coalition partners that this government is increasing pensions for everyone?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I will reply to you about the savings measures decided and actually taken during the last budgetary conclave on pensions, notwithstanding all the various figures which have been mentioned, and which do not prejudge those which will be taken in the future under other budgets. First, the rate of the Wijninckx contribution, which is due on the amount of supplementary pension premiums in excess of EUR 31 836, is increased from 1.5 % to 3 %. The annual budgetary impact is EUR 12 million from 2018. Secondly, it was decided to strengthen the monitoring of compliance with the 80 per cent supplementary pension tax limit, beyond which the premiums paid are not deductible. The return on this measure was estimated at €5 million in 2018. Thirdly, a technical correction to the return on the purchase of the academic years reform will yield EUR 2.6 million. Fourthly, the system of compensation due between the State and Proximus, provided for under the law which organises the payment of Belgacom's pensions by the State, will be reviewed. The budgetary return is 10 million euros in 2018. Fifthly, it was also decided to strengthen the control of the residency obligation of GRAPA beneficiaries. The expected return in 2018 is 2.7 million euros. Sixthly, the measure exempting from social contributions the supplementary remuneration offered to older workers who adapt their professional careers - landingsbanen acts - allows a budgetary savings in pension of 47 million euros from 2018. None of these six measures resulted in a reduction in pension amounts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u3	Mr.Minister, I had asked the question for 2019 above all, since you had communicated the figure of 274 million euros. The political stake is to show us where you want to succeed, playing cards on the table. The sum of 274 million is not negligible when it comes to savings to be made in a year. We hear you talk about heavy trades and tantèmes, but we would have preferred a more frank answer on your future plans and in the very short term. We will have the opportunity to go back to the difficult jobs, but I had hoped to have figures on the future, Minister. Thank you still for making a summary for 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u4	Minister, certain measures taken by the government, such as the tax shift and now the flexi-jobs and the start-up jobs, reduce the social contributions of employers and employees for, among other things, the first pension pillar. In this way, the financing of that pillar will be structurally undermined. This will also mean that we will all have to work longer for less pensions. Instead of addressing this problem, the government remains committed to promoting the second and third pillars. The announced reform of the second pillar, which is, in principle, individualised, fits fully into that picture. In fact, the second pillar becomes collectively individual pension savings, making a pot for all companies that do not offer a second pillar and for which employees apply individually. However, the large pension survey of 2015 showed that 65% of employees prefer a higher statutory pension rather than tax benefits as pension savings. Only 15% opt for more tax benefits, 20% have no opinion. In addition, statutory pensions are cheaper and less risky than private pensions. Legal pensions are currently up to 40% lower than those in our neighbouring countries. With the government's measures, the gap continues to grow. In 2016, we calculated that of the employees who worked exactly the same time and earned exactly the same amount in Belgium, Germany, France, Luxembourg and the Netherlands, who have the lowest pension in Belgium. The pension gap then stood at 14 % to 48 %. Instead of constantly undermining the first pillar and using it as an argument for further savings on our pensions, funding must therefore be re-insured and expanded. I quote Jozef Pacolet, one of the most well-reputed specialists in social security and social fraud, on 16 September 2017 Not long after that I submitted my question in De Standaard: "It's an illusion to think that you can reduce the wage burden at the same time and keep pensions affordable. Prime Minister, what initiatives are you taking to ensure the financing of the first pillar on the revenue side? Secondly, how much do you expect to collect with the so-called activation premium for the bridge pension 2.0? Does the full amount of this benefit from the first pension pillar? Thirdly, how do you assess the increase in precarious employment as flexi jobs and start-up wages, on which less or even no social contributions are to be paid? Will this not put further pressure on the financing of the first pillar? It's just a question, Minister. Fourthly, why do you choose to fiscally encourage the second and third pillars, while we could refinance the statutory pension pillar with private pension subsidies?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u5	Mr President, my colleague, the questions you are asking are directed more to the Minister of Social Affairs and to the Minister of Finance than to the Minister of Pensions. This being said, in general, all tax shift measures and all measures aimed at reducing social contributions and thus promoting employment have a positive effect on pension financing. That's very clear! In fact, what matters is the width of the plate. So, the most people contribute, the best thing is. And anything that allows job creation increases the number of contributors. In the long run, this is in favour of financing the first pillar. Why are pensions sometimes lower in Belgium than in some countries? This is not about 40%. Indeed, the amount of the net pension must be taken into account and the tax system in Belgium is rather favourable to pensions. However, why can there be a difference at certain times? Just because Belgian career time is the lowest in Europe, i.e. 32.6 years of career, while the European average is 35-36 years of career and in many European countries the average duration is 40 years. If you take a 40-year career and compare the pension level for a 40-year-old career, you will no longer have these differences. Therefore, in my view, there is a "sophistical" bias, I would say, in your analysis of the comparison of pension amounts. Indeed, you do not compare with equal career duration. Any comparison that is not made in this way is incorrect. As regards the financing of the second and third pillars, I would add that, in my mind, I never oppose first and second pillars because, in my view, this is a mistake. I care a lot about semantics. The second pillar deals with supplementary pensions. That means what it means: it's a complement. A complement to what? To the legal pension. The latter is the first pillar of the pension and, in addition to this, it is considered necessary to have a risk-sharing policy with both a system of allocation and a system of funding which will increase the final replacement rate for the pensioner. That is the aim pursued. However, the supplementary pension should not be applied against the statutory pension. That doesn't make any sense! All the measures we have taken are aimed at strengthening the legal pension. The average level of pensions increases each year in Belgium. I therefore think it is important to continue this type of policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u6	Minister, here are a few more points of reflection. On the one hand, at the level of the studies carried out, an analysis was carried out with equal career. The replacement rate was not used because the information was sufficiently known. Rather, the analysis was made of a worker who has an equal career in the four different countries to see how much he is affected in each country. This brings us to the figures we obtained with the study office. There, the differences are very great. That's why what you're saying seems wrong to me. On the other hand, you say that you do not object between the two, but, in terms of increasing the tax base, the Plan Office makes it clear that with all the contribution exemption measures, social security has a shortfall of sixteen billion. I can hear you when you refer to the employment rate as "jobs, jobs, jobs", but it is a fact that by paying less on these different wages, less money goes into the social security funds. But you yourself say that, given the lack of money in this sector, we have to cut social spending. You're right to say it's not just your department. I could have asked Mrs De Block the question, too. In any case, there is currently a downward spiral. This is not economically viable. Finally, in terms of risk analyses, the second pillar carries far more risks than the first. It is clear, and we have seen it in some countries. The first pillar is much safer because the risk is spread over many more people. Most models are therefore very clear. On this side, it would be better to strengthen the first pillar. That's not what's happening now. Minister, you are not going to tell me today that you are strengthening the first pillar. You won't go so far. Yes? Still? That's impressive! I think it would be in our best interest to strengthen the first pillar.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u7	Questions Nos 21075, 22213, 22235, 22644, 22214 and 22234 by Mr Hedebouw are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u8	Mr President, Minister, according to the point system you wish to introduce, employees, civil servants and self-employed persons would collect points on an annual basis. The points will then be placed on an individual account. The number of points that one builds depends on the wage that one earns and the number of years one works. If an employee has earned the same amount during a given year as the average of all employees, he gets one point. If he makes more money, he gets more. If he earns less, he gets less. You state, Minister, that there must be a stronger link between the effective performance of work and the level of pension. In other words, a number of similar periods will yield fewer points. The pension will therefore fall. One can get extra points if one pursues a heavy occupation, or if one continues working after a certain age. We have already heard from previous communications that the value of a pension point will depend on three factors: public finances, life expectancy and the evolution of labour income. You tweeted on 15 January that you will take up the issue of the point pension, now that the social partners in the National Pension Committee have given a divided opinion on this dossier. You said that you would take account of the views of the social partners and take a decision together with the government on the modalities. On 19 December last year, it was clear that there was a great deal of social dissatisfaction with the introduction of a credit pension. More and more citizens are concerned and also well aware of the terms of the point pension in other countries, such as Sweden and Germany, where pensions have been reduced following the introduction of the credit system. I come to my questions, Minister. Firstly, what is the opinion of the social partners on the point pension? Secondly, why is the government taking a decision on the modalities if there is no social support for the point pension? Thirdly, do you maintain your view that no one will lose a pension with the introduction of a credit pension? Fourthly, will the value of the point pension still be determined by the average wage, public finances and life expectancy? Fifthly, how will you ensure that point pensions will not fall dramatically in value if public finances fail or the average wage falls? In an interview with De Tijd you claimed that a point pension would never decrease in value. Sixthly, will pension points be prosperous and take into account purchasing power in the event of inflation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u9	Mr President, Minister, on the basis of the report by the Pension Commission, the government agreement also includes the point pension, particularly with a view to evolving towards simplification and greater transparency. There is also the idea of prosperity stability behind it. The coalition agreement states that no one would lose. That is why we used to point out the importance of setting a lower limit, which you have also confirmed in the media at some point. You said you'd provide a lower limit. The negotiations are under way to explore how the credit pension can be achieved, knowing that a lot of reforms have already been made. The question is how the point pension can be adapted to these reforms. There is already some transparency through mypension, which already gives citizens more clarity. However, a kind of working paper has recently been issued by the Federal Planning Office, in which the calculation was made of the winners and the losers of the point pension. In passing, my question dates back to October 2017. Winners and losers were brought forward, especially winners and less losers in the whole, as we have understood. A study has also been carried out on the self-employed. They were moderately positive. That is why I have a number of questions about the state of the point pension. First of all, what is the state of play? The other questioners also asked about the opinions on the subject. Secondly, there have been the studies of the Federal Planning Bureau and the group of self-employed people on the possible impact. Have such studies been carried out on the feasibility of such a credit system for permanent government staff or is it a global study? If so, what are the results? If not, will that study still be carried out? After all, it is important that the effects are known for the different groups that will retire today and tomorrow. Third, are there any simulations going on right now? What tools are being developed for this? Can we expect anything in this respect? Finally, what concrete steps do you intend to take? Will we actually move towards a point pension scheme or are we still waiting for it, because important reforms have already taken place and the point pension is, as it were, the doily under which many measures have been taken, much of which has already been taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u10	Mr President, Minister, I am also curious about your explanation, because it is clear that there is division, both among the social partners and among the governmental parties, about the opportunity to go further in this respect. You do not have much time left, and this is a very fundamental reform. One of the arguments put forward for the introduction of a credit pension is the affordability of the pension system. This argument saves a lot, because the level of individual pension benefits cannot be made dependent on the state of public finances for us. The statutory pension is now also calculated according to certain fractions and tantiemes. This provides certainty to the people who work. The current system is fairly transparent and clear, in that there are rules for calculating each individual pension. An individual pension amount is equal to the salary and number of career years. If it turns out that there is a problem with the financing, which is a trade-off from the government, then the government has a number of options to remedy it, for example from the general budget, or possibly through alternative funding, or even, by getting more people to work, so that the financing of our pensions is assured. For the benefit of the pension, for someone who retires, that in itself does not change anything. That man or woman knows what he can get at that moment. Minister, what is the state of play? One of the advantages of the point system is the harmonisation of pension systems. Admittedly, this may be an advantage for the point pension, but harmonisation can also be achieved without the point pension. There is no need for fundamental reform to harmonise systems. In other words, Minister, we do not see many arguments for the point pension, but arguments for the opposite, and the most important of them is uncertainty. This only increases uncertainty at a time when many people are already worried about their pension. Wouldn't it be better for the government to deal with other problems? There are still many challenges with regard to our pensions. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u11	Minister, I have also put a question on the point pension. As you know, the point pension is mentioned in the government agreement, but the most important thing is that it is also mentioned in the report of Mr Frank Vandenbroucke's pension committee. In fact, Mr Vandenbroucke, not the dumbest in the classroom with whom I did not say that he was the smartest; you know that one must be clever and clever in politics who proposed it himself. In any case, I think it is a good proposal. I am surprised that Green is against it. I find that surprising for a party that thinks it's long-term. The point pension is a good system. First of all, this system brings systems together, which is an absolute necessity in our country, given the far too great and unjust differences. Secondly, the system will also be adaptable. The system in Scandinavia has a similar strength. Depending on the evolution of life expectancy, the system evolves along with it. We don't know that today. We take the lead in saying that a person must have a career of 45 years and can retire at 65, or later 66 or 67 years. So that's fixated. If life expectancy changes, our system won't change unless it's adjusted. For example, this would lead to further discussions on the retirement age. The point pension must be drawn up in such a way that a change in society leads to a change in the system. In this sense, Minister, I think that the point pension is an interesting exercise and I can support it. There are, of course, some reservations. A first thought is next. The Vandenbroucke system, if I may call it that, means that someone who retires turns his points into euros. The amount can then be increased or reduced on the basis of three criteria: demographic trends, average wages and the economic situation. The latter, in particular, can be a problem. Assuming someone retires at the time of a crisis, the points in that period would be less valuable than before, which would reduce the pension rate for the person concerned. That could lead to problems. Questions arise about this, and I am happy to hear your response. A second thought is about security. Today we know the system of mypension. The government is not always at the best of the class, but the system of mypension, combined with itsme. read Peter Hinssen today in De Tijd... gives a very interesting picture about pension options. Because of this predictability, the system is consulted hundreds of thousands of times. Now, Minister, I believe that a pension system should be as transparent as a retirement pension, which we know today. In other words, we must avoid uncertainty about the amount of pension. Finally, and this is a delicate question, the great advantage of the point pension is that the systems are growing towards each other. Do you agree that the calculation rules of the pension should be identical for everyone in the point system, regardless of the statute?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u12	Mr President, on 15 January the members of the National Pension Committee adopted the final report on their work on point pensions. I invite you to read it - it is published on the website of the National Pension Committee - since it takes the point of view of the social partners in detail. As I have already indicated to you, we will take these different points of view into account in order to continue, with the Academic Council, the Administration of Pensions and the Federal Office of the Plan, the work to prepare for the reform. Mrs Becq, I would like to point out that the Academic Council and the Federal Pension Service have jointly drawn up a note showing that it is technically possible to introduce a system of points in the public sector system, which takes into account the particularities of the civil service system. Most of the parameters for the calculation are only known at the end of the career. That is why a mixed transition is proposed for the introduction of the point system in that system. The Federal Planning Bureau is currently preparing a simulator that will allow the impact of the system to be evaluated with points. It has already carried out an initial analysis which shows that, in particular, pensioners who receive a lower pension, those who are less educated, those who work part-time and those who benefit from the pension system with points. To answer Mr Hedebouw's questions, I can only say once again that the value of the point will not fall and that this guarantee will be included in the texts. The point pension system is not intended to save money – it is not a budget reform – even if it should ensure the long-term financial and social sustainability of our pension system. The number of points collected does not depend on the occupation, but on the remuneration received and the length of the career. Mr Van Quickenborne, today's amount of mypension is the result of a simulation based on the wage known in the consultation when the employee continues his career at that time. The same will apply to the point system. It will be an estimate based on, on the one hand, the career achieved and, on the other hand, on the value of the item known at the time of the consultation. That value will not be able to fall again. Moreover, I do not think it is necessary to set a minimum and maximum amount for each person. Then the information communicated on mypension would become too complicated. Like you, I believe that in the point system, the rules for calculating pensions should be identical for all workers, regardless of their status. However, the necessary transitional measures and rules will be developed to safeguard the acquired rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u13	Minister, do you still want to introduce this point pension in this Parliament? Are you confirming?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u14	It's in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u15	First information: you will introduce it during this legislature. I do not share your enthusiasm for seeing what has happened in other countries. In Sweden, the starting age has increased from 65 to 68 and a half years with the same pension! When you say you don't lose anything, in fact, you keep the same pension but with three and a half years of extra work! On the same career, we lose! I take note of the fact that you say that the point cannot be lowered, with automatic indexing to counter inflation. But there is still the extension of a career that will be automatic and that is more than regrettable. We believe that harmonization is necessary, but not with point pensions. The debate will continue and we will follow your initiatives closely. I guess we're close to an agreement. A week? Two weeks? We will have no more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u16	Minister, it is important that there is transparency about pensions; the workers must know where they stand. That means there's some certainty about what's being previewed. You also offer them, as you guarantee the lower limit. In doing so, you do not have any concern that the pension would fall if things were to go down economically. Indexing means that people never go backwards, but always get better, even if things are not as good as they are economically. That proves the past. Indeed, a number of measures have already been taken to bring the various systems closer together. However, this requires not only a pension system with points, a system which facilitates approximation. How will you put things into practice? Do you have any eyes on a term? How do you intend to make the system operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u17	Minister, you confirm that you are continuing to retire with points and you promise that the value of a retirement point cannot be reduced. However, we fear that the pension will be used with points to avoid increases, to contain increases in pension amounts through the automatic link to both life expectancy and the state of public finances. You say that the parameters will be known at the end of the career. Mrs Becq, you say that it is important for workers to know where they stand, but they will not know until the end of their careers. It is only when you retire that you will be told how much pension you will receive. That is completely different from the current system: in the current system that is certain. Law changes are possible, of course, but up to the pension you will know what the impact will be on your own pension amount. This is quite different from getting a letter on the bus at the end of the career with the pension amount, depending on external factors, which have nothing to do with a higher wage or longer work. The pension amount can still be corrected by a number of external factors such as the state of public finances or life expectancy. Moreover, we are prepared to debate the extent to which the increase in life expectancy should affect the rise in retirement age, but this must be done by legislative changes following a debate, not by an automatic link, which seems to be provided for in the pension system. Mr Van Quickenborne, you are referring to the Pension Committee. I am playing the ball back, the pension committee advocates alternative funding to bear the cost of ageing: "In short, whatever concrete options are taken, the search for additional funding is inevitable, both in the short term and in the longer term. The Committee considers that capital-based financing should play a role in this. If you refer to the report of the Pension Commission, do it completely, do not cherrypicking. Of course, the advice to get extra and correct funding through a load on the big assets must also be included in the exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u18	Minister, your most important statement is that you want uniformity to be achieved in the end, even after transitional measures. This is the end of the great injustice in which one system offers far more benefits than the other. I am now talking about employees and civil servants, for them the contributions are the same. It's not about self-employed people, it's about employees and civil servants. The difference in treatment there is unfairly large. Minister, you intend to resolve this, with respect for transitional measures. That is a good thing. You also confirmed that a point can never fall in value. That is also important to mention. Mr De Vriendt, in connection with your comments on the report, we can, of course, discuss modalities and contributions from wealth or not. I have already said a number of times, also in plenary, that the contribution from wealth through the withholding tax as an alternative financing of social security is not a bad thing in our country. We can discuss this later, no problem at all. The point, however, is that your party opposes the main reform proposed by the committee. It's not about modalities, it's about principles. I therefore find it very regrettable, and we note this in the report, which says that a party such as yours, Green Ecolo, who is going for the long term, is opposed to this introduction. That only makes the difference between Green and Mr Vandenbroucke greater. And you know which side I'm on when it comes to reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that a debate has now been held here. I'd rather do that than when people are asking questions here to read to me. I submitted a proposal to the President of the Chamber one and a half years ago to stop reading Mr. Owl's big reading hour. Everyone's tired of that. The Members of this House must be given the opportunity to take part in the debate. That's politics. That is what we are doing, with Mr Hedebouw, who is doing well, and with Mr De Vriendt and Mrs Becq.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u20	This is possible in the Flemish Parliament. I've said that a hundred times.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u21	You're right, and you should be able to do that here. But what do journalists do in the meantime? They say it's boring here and the chairman isn't paying attention. If people think that when they read, people all read with them, they're in kindergarten class. I note that we all agree. It is incredible that we can reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u22	Mr President, the issue has been raised several times in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u23	And what are they saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u24	It's too much trouble.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u25	No, you can never give up. If you give up, you're not doing well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u26	I want to express my great enthusiasm for your proposal. If you could get back to the Conference of Presidents. Anyway, hot dumpling. This is a good, dynamic debate. We're hot!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u27	I propose that I draw up a letter, which can then be signed by Mrs Becq, you, Mrs Temmerman, Mr De Vriendt, Mrs Fonck, myself and others who wish to do so. We will send that letter and the representatives of the Conference, Mrs Temmerman and Mrs Fonck, will be able to defend the question. I will defend that too, albeit from a distance. Question No 21085 by Mr Hedebouw is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u28	Mr. Chair, my questions have been joined by the firm, but I would like to insist on getting a precise answer about STIB. It is therefore important not to move immediately towards a general debate. I also received a lot of information from the base. Mr Minister, as the conditions for early retirement become even more stringent, there is great concern among workers employed in heavy and stressful occupational sectors. Next year the minimum required age for early retirement will be 63 years, if you have worked 42 years. Several sectors are already raising the alarm, as the working pressure combined with longer working is no longer sustainable. For example, STIB staff in Brussels raise an alarm about the tightening of access to early retirement. Drivers, conductors and maintenance staff who day in and day out with great responsibility bring people safely from point a to point b in often very stressful situations, often yearn for their retirement. I have the following questions about this. Firstly, how many STIB employees will be affected by the tightening of conditions to early retirement? Secondly, will you engage with the trade unions and STIB staff to identify their concerns? Thirdly, what is your assessment of the profession of driver, conductor or maintenance manager of STIB with regard to the claim to the status of heavy duty? Fourthly, from when could we then retire early? My second question was more generally on the subject of the heavy-duty professions. On 22 December, you submitted a preliminary draft to the Government in which you regulated the recognition of the heavy professions. I will not go into that further, but it is clear that the abolition of preferential tantiemes must be more effective than the envelope that you put at your disposal to recognize people with heavy professions in the public sector. In this context, I also have several questions. Firstly, how much do you intend to save this year and next year with this measure? Secondly, where are the contradictions with your coalition partner N-VA in this file? Apparently, it's not progressing. Can you explain which points of discussion are there? Thirdly, which professions are eligible for recognition according to the criteria? Fourthly, why did you first fix the envelope? Wouldn't it make more sense to wait for social consultation first? Fifthly, why are teachers excluded from the status of a heavy occupation, knowing that the emotional and mental burden on teachers increases the risk of burn-outs? Mr Minister, where is the dossier at the moment? Will we finally reach an agreement? How do you think the social partners will react to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u29	Mr President, Minister, since the beginning of the legislature, we have already raised, on several occasions, the important issue of access to teachers' pensions. The recognition of the "penitibility" – I do not like this term – and of the heaviness and particularly taking character of this profession appears to be obvious. Indeed, it can easily be understood that the burden of children and adolescents can be particularly heavy or difficult to bear for people who have gone beyond the age of 60. However, so far you have not taken a firm position on this. It was necessary to wait for the report of a regional representative of your party, relaying this fact, yet known to all, so that you would more clearly state your intention to take into account the tenability of the teaching profession in terms of access to and calculation of the pension. This is, where appropriate, a step in the right direction but requires confirmation and concrete action because there is an inconsistency between your statements and the text you tabled to the government at the end of December, which was not approved by the government at first reading. According to this text, the only criterion of psychological pressure is not sufficient for the recognition of the tenibility of a function. Under the terms of the note you submitted to the government, it is more of an aggravating character. It also remains the question of the coefficient of increase of the pension or of the consideration of the career which would be linked to this difficult nature of certain functions and the available budget envelope. If it is peanuts, as announced, then the corrective nature of the measure will be insufficient to compensate for other measures taken since the beginning of the legislature that violate the rights of these workers. This is a concern of teachers both in Flanders and on the French side. In addition, this also applies to other professions, including all personal assistance professions, nurses, nurses, and youth assistance and nursing workers. Minister, can you tell me whether this finding of the tenacity of the teaching function shared in the media is well supported by the whole government? I heard at least one of the partners wasn't following you. Has the National Pension Committee given an opinion on the matter? What is he? If so, how will this psychological penitibility be effectively taken into account? What will be the impact of this recognition on the conditions for teachers' access to pensions? What about the end-of-career measures that the Communities are proposing today? I am thinking, for example, of the availability for personal conveniences prior to retirement pension (DPPR) in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation? In addition to your statements in the media, have you engaged in a dialogue with the federated entities and the teachers' representatives on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u30	Mr Daerden is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u31	Mr President, Minister, my question is quite simple and concerns the discussion that is taking place today about the heavy professions and the difficult points that need to be made. We are counting on you to find a solution, taking into account the criteria agreed with the social partners, and that this can be done with common sense, taking into account the different parameters and groups. We sincerely hope so. I have always understood in the discussion on the heavy-duty professions and the retirement age associated with them, including for the public sector, that in parallel with that the preferential tantiemes would be reduced to the 1/60th. This would be inextricably linked to the outcome of the discussion on the heavy professions. Can you confirm, Minister, that the removal of preferential tantiemes and the system for the heavy professions are and remain an integral part? I also have an informative question about the bottlenecks in the heavy professions. What's the status? In what time do you see these countries in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u32	Mr President, Minister, last Thursday several colleagues questioned you about the heavy professions. Your answer contained the fact that negotiations were still under way. The Prime Minister himself convened the government that Thursday evening. Friday we could read that there was no agreement yet, but this morning we read in the newspaper that according to the N-VA there is an agreement in sight. It is of course again the N-VA that is mainly on the brakes here and demands a number of things. Instead of allowing the study on the heavy professions to be carried out and then determining how much money is needed, the N-VA has done the opposite and even thinks that fewer people should be eligible, in order to save even more. Mr Minister, I come to my questions. Is there an agreement in the meantime? Is it true there's a view of an agreement? So can we expect an agreement soon? Does stress remain a separate criterion for determining the severity of a profession or function? After all, you will no longer recognize professions but functions. Will stress, as you have said a few times, only apply in conjunction with one of the three other criteria? If that is the case, I would like to point out that teachers will fall out of the boat and will no longer be able to claim a heavy occupation. This also applies, for example, to people who work in an emergency centre and are very stressful. They too will no longer be able to claim a heavy occupation. Will the periods of incapacity for work due to accidents at work and pregnancy still be included in the calculation of the coefficient for heavy-duty occupations? That was not very clear in your reply on Thursday. After all, you have stressed a number of times that it is only about the periods that have been worked. Only the periods worked will be eligible. Quite specifically, will accidents at work and pregnancy be covered or not? During the last plenary session, several colleagues with me gave the opinion to apply a gender test to the agreement reached. Will you do that effectively? When can we expect the list of heavy-duty professions/functions? Will you adjust the budget for the heavy-duty professions/functions and make it dependent on the number of persons eligible for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u33	Mr President, Minister, there is no agreement for pensions on points or for the heavy professions. In the meantime, the retirement age was raised four years ago. The increase in the early retirement age is still ongoing. Over the last few days, the government has consulted on the heavy professions without reaching an agreement. Why can't we agree on the full inclusion of the "emotional and mental load" factor? Public statements indicate division within the government. Is the budgetary envelope for the heavy-duty professions really closed, whatever the government and the social partners decide on criteria and the functions they fulfil? It is also unclear how many people work in such a difficult profession. Nevertheless, there is already a rather limited envelope for the heavy professions. How can you defend this logic? Do you have an eye for the fact that women, more than men, work in jobs with excessive mental and emotional stress? Is there going to be a gender check on this government's pension measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u34	Mr Minister, the introduction of a system of heavy professions is, of course, not an easy matter. It's a tough job. Many governments have tried in vain to find a solution to this in the past, but they have never succeeded. Why is it so hard? Today there is a system of tantièmes and early retirement ages which has grown over many decades. There are even KBs of 1844 that stipulate that postmen receive a preferential tantième. This is just to show how complex it all is. You want to convert this into a simple system whereby a career of 45 years and 65 years of age will eventually increase to 66 and 67 years of age as the standard. You want to provide for an exception for the heavy-duty professions. That is the commitment of the reform. I do not understand Mr De Vriendt's pessimism. I believe that the government is on the right track to reach an agreement. Mr De Vriendt talks about disagreement. I have seen much more disagreement in many other cases. You will also notice that hardly any statements are made on the record. There are even parties who no longer speak for this issue because they are convinced of the delicate nature of this matter. I've got a feeling the landing's coming up. Much preparatory work has been done by the Minister and his staff. The criteria are more or less laid down, Minister. I would not refer to four criteria, but to three plus one, with stress as an aggravating factor and not as a separate factor. There's, I think, a consensus in the government's lap. There is also a budgetary envelope for the public and private sectors. Those are decisions of principle that can count. I have the following questions, Minister. What's the status of the conversations? My party considers equal treatment in the public and private sectors to be very important, because it would be inexplicable for a nurse in a public hospital to retire earlier than a nurse in a private hospital, which is the case today. In the case of heavy-duty professions, these criteria should also apply to the private sector. I would even say more, Minister: do not forget the self-employed, because it is assumed that heavy professions exist only within the public sector, but a baker who gets up at 3 a.m. and works six days on seven, I think, also has a heavy occupation. Unfortunately, for them today, the self-employed are not provided for anything. I therefore hope that a system will also be developed for the self-employed to deal with the heavy-duty professions. Finally, a heavy occupation must be objectively defined, but one must also be able to explain it. In other words, if one chooses a particular list, one should be able to explain function by function that it is effectively a heavy function or a heavy occupation. Anyone who, with all sympathy, does desk work is not comparable to someone who is operationally active. I therefore hope that within the professions there will also be a distinction between those who are truly operational, who are active at night, who are exposed to dangers, and those who are sitting at a desk. It is obvious that this is also valuable work, but it is of a different order.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u35	[[...]] Discussions on the recognition of penitibility in pension rights are currently under way. These take a little time, but it seems normal to me given the complexity and difficulty of the case. It is no coincidence that, in many countries, the case has not been completed. Recognition of penitibility should allow workers who perform functions which are recognized as painful, regardless of their scheme – both in the public and private sectors, both in the self-employed and in the employees' system – to anticipate retirement or to recover the amount of the pension provided that their profession is recognized. This reform enshrines the idea of taking into account, in the determination of pension rights, the reality of the professional functions performed with the penitence attached to them. Of course, there are special sensitivities both in the political world and with the social partners, and that is normal. But the current discussions are extremely constructive and I am confident that we will soon be able to reach agreement on all aspects of this reform. As soon as an agreement has been reached, the social dialogue on the text of the preliminary draft law may start in the A Committee and the Management Committee of the Federal Pension Service and of the self-employed. At the same time as this consultation on the text of the preliminary draft law, a list of the heavy professions will have to be drawn up. The list applicable to the public sector will be negotiated with the trade unions which are members of the A Committee. The social partners will also be invited to draw up a list which will apply in the private sector. It is only after the social dialogue on the texts and after the Council of State has given its opinion that the preliminary draft law will be submitted to the Chamber. That will in principle be mid-June. As far as the content of the draft legislation is concerned, I confirm that it is based on the four criteria defined by the National Pension Committee: tenability of working circumstances due to physical constraints related to the working environment or due to physical burdens; tenability in the organisation of work; tenability due to high safety risks; and mental and emotional penitence. It is true that there is a distinction from this fourth criterion. It is considered that it alone cannot determine penitibility because, in fact, it is the result of the application of one of the other three criteria. The existence of high physical constraints, safety risks or particularly difficult work organisation leads to emotional stressors. Stress and emotional stress are aggravating in relation to other criteria and cannot determine penitibility alone. This preliminary draft law is also based on a guidance note prepared by the secretariat of the National Pension Committee to determine the impact of recognition of hardship on pension rights. The questions on the concrete elements of this text, however, seem premature, since the debate on the preliminary draft will take place when it is discussed in committee. The same applies to issues relating to the occupational categories which will benefit from this reform. I hope that the social dialogue which will make it possible to draw up a list of arduous occupations can take place calmly. Consultation on the lists of heavy-duty professions will begin as soon as the preliminary draft law is adopted at first reading. I hope that this consultation can be concluded before the summer holidays, both for the public sector and for the private sector. Contrary to what I often hear, this reform has no budgetary focus in the first place. On the contrary, the granting of more favourable arrangements in the Regulation for pensions linked to the recognition of penitibility will entail a cost. This is why the government has already planned several envelopes, the content of which will increase as pension rights are created in relation to penitibility. The budgetary impact can only be precisely known once the difficult jobs have been identified. The government has, I repeat, already planned envelopes to be determined for each pension plan. I would like to add that contacts are frequent with Ministers of Education. Similarly, we discuss informally with representatives of workers from different branches. Of course, Mr Van Quickenborne, the independents must be taken into account – it seems obvious to me – but in a non-collective, more individual conception, in the form of a specific committee which will be responsible for recognising the painful aspects on the basis of individual dossiers. Besides, we can't do anything else. A question was asked about actual work periods. They are, of course, part of the ongoing negotiations. Not all "non-work" periods are identical in terms of impact. We'll have to discuss it again. Of course, in Committee A, the public authorities will be represented. I am thinking in particular of the federated entities. The aim is for everyone to be able to make their point of view when developing the definition of arduous occupations. That is to say, I will not enter today into the fixing of the trades that will be recognized as painful. Mr. Hedebouw's question about STIB is relevant, but my answer would not be. Social dialogue must be allowed to play its part. That is why I do not want to exercise a priori authoritarianism in this area. In reply to Mrs Becq's question, I can confirm that the abolition of preferential tantiemes and the introduction of the new system based on the gravity of the professions are inextricably linked. Moreover, these two aspects of the reform are included in the same preliminary draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u36	Mr Minister, you say that the abolition of the tyrennials is linked to reform, so it is proof that there is a budgetary aspect. You're gonna make money, so you're binding both. It is a question of money since the removal of the tantèmes will save money. Stop saying that there is no budgetary dimension on the file. In addition, you say that the "stress" criterion has been requalified, but not as such. I understand that the first three criteria create stress but, conversely, stress can also exist independently of the other three criteria. We are at the heart of the debate, which concerns teachers in particular. There is a lot of concern in the teaching community because safety is becoming increasingly problematic in many schools. Many employees also say that working with other human beings generates stress. And this stress is not necessarily related to safety, schedules or physical load. Minister, if you didn't have a category to exclude, why didn't you maintain the stress test? You could have maintained it and the debate could have taken place later. There's still an agenda behind neutralizing him! Minister, you indicated mid-June as the deadline for landing the file in Parliament. I hope it will evolve in the right direction by then!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u37	Minister, as with other questions that have been asked to you since the beginning of the sitting, such as those relating to point pension etc., you are turning around the pot. This is how you introduce uncertainty about the future of pensions. My specific question was about taking into account the length of the teaching function. You have made very engaging statements to this audience. On 12 January, following a release of Walloon MP Laurent Henquet, you said: "The message we deliver is that the teaching function must be taken into account in the context of penitibility". Today, you do not confirm this. In front of the media, it is good to say that you are with the teachers, and then you are quite committed, but when it comes to making decisions, you confirm that the criterion of psychological pressure, which is the main one at the level of education, is not sufficient to justify by itself a faster access to the pension or an increase of the pension per se. This is just one example, because one can also mention the functions of helping people, involving care; and all manual functions. In the absence of clear criteria and a sufficient and unclosed envelope, you will not be able to make a fair reform. The amounts quoted in your memo to the government at the end of December are ridiculous in relation to the stakes, i.e. the consideration of penitibility. There will therefore be no difference for the workers concerned, which is unfair and ineffective. You take us by boat by making statements in the media, which are never followed by any effects.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u38	Minister, I understand that it is not so obvious to say a lot today. It is important, however, to reach an agreement. The debate is taking so long, because we all see that the public sector is linked to what can happen in the private sector. That is also why, when it did not work out and we did not reach an agreement, other colleagues and I hoped that an agreement could be reached in the public sector, that the partners would sit around the table and sit there, so as to pave the way for the private sector. That's an important element to take with you. I would just like to stress that the discussion on a heavy occupation does not concern the valuation of a profession. We can attach great importance to a profession without it being classified as "heavy." That too is sometimes taken away: it is not because one does not call something "heavy," that one does not appreciate it. These are two important points which are different from each other. We can all list those who find it difficult or not. In the end, four criteria have been applied. There is discussion as to whether the fourth criterion is an additional or independent criterion. Working conditions can always be defined in such a way as to include a fourth criterion of stress. The most important one will be the list of professions that will eventually be maintained in order to take specific measures to meet the gravity of the profession. Even if the criteria have been formulated, it remains important to know which professions are on the list of heavy-duty professions. It was important that you, quite rightly, reiterated that the change in the tantiemes did not happen without the two being linked together. I would like to emphasise transitional arrangements. If certain groups were not to be regarded as heavy-duty professionals, although they are today, it would be necessary to provide for a sufficiently broad transitional period. Those who are not so far away from their pension on this basis, including with calculations of age, tantiemes and amounts, should not be left behind with a huge hangover. We must also take care of these people.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that you cannot say everything, but you did start by saying that it is not just a budgetary operation. It is not only a budgetary operation, but above all a budgetary one. You say that 16 million is provided for public services. The tenfold amount was originally provided for in the tantièmes. If it is not a budgetary operation, then you can also increase the 16 million. If you take into account only the police and the fire department, that 16 million has already been used up. Of course, this is essentially a budgetary operation. Then admit it. Secondly, for the periods in which no work has been carried out, it is still necessary to examine what is or is not included, you said. I do not think it is right for you to say that last Thursday you did not answer that question either, for example, that pregnancy or incapacity for work due to an accident at work does not automatically count. You remain very reluctant to take a clear position in that regard, which I find unacceptable. You just said that you still have to look at that, when I thought you would confirm today that such periods are being taken away, which you are not doing. Now I come to the stress criterion. I do not agree at all with Mrs Becq, who proposes that the list of posts and professions should be reviewed afterwards. If criteria are laid down, they must also be followed. If a particular category of profession does not appear to be covered by the criteria laid down, while the majority believes that it should be covered, will the definition be changed a little? This is how we work à la tête du client. Some professional positions, such as the teacher's profession, are not characterised by heavy physical efforts or, for example, night work and do not pose a direct safety risk, but are nevertheless extremely stressful. The stress factor is the only criterion for these professional positions. However, as a result, they will not be covered by the definition of heavy-duty professions. People who work in an emergency centre on day work, but without night work, will not be covered, although they do have a heavy occupation. As I did in plenary, I would once again advise you, Minister, to talk to those people or, rather, to take over their job for a day. Then you can decide whether or not this is a heavy occupation. You didn't answer about the gender test either. You are simply not saying anything about this, whereas my fellow Members have shown that most of the victims of your reform will be women again. We await the outcome of your negotiations. We didn't really hear a deadline. However, your wait-and-see attitude and the fact that you do not take a clear position on some of the things that are obvious to us do not immediately give me hope for what will come out of the bus.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u40	Minister, it seems that many people who are effectively engaged in a heavy occupation will fall out of the boat. It is clear that professions in which people perform physically burdensome work and night work or run safety risks must be recognised as heavy professions. The government also intends to recognise them, to a greater or lesser extent, but that is another discussion. In any case, these matters are fully taken into account, including for the self-employed. That's important. There will, of course, be a number of professions which can be objectively measured as being heavy, but which do not meet the criteria laid down. I am thinking, for example, of teaching staff. Being a teacher in front of an overcrowded class, keep it up to 67 years! I am also thinking of those who work in the care sector, such as those accompanying groups of young people with problems, in the special care of young people. All this is not physically burdensome, but it is still a heavy occupation. That can be measured objectively. Such jobs persist until one is 67 years old, that is impossible. However, if those concerned do not come up with the number of career years that enable them to retire early, they may be faced with the age of 67. Mr. Secretary, it's very simple. If you and the government do not accept the criterion of excessive mental stress as a full criterion, we will be in trouble. The workers in the heavy-duty professions will then be in trouble. I agree with Mrs Temmerman's reaction to Mrs Becq. It is a very important phase. This is where the legislative framework will be created. You will have to be particularly creative, and then, when determining the positions, you will have to ensure, for example, that the teaching staff, which does not meet any of the criteria you consider to be full-time, will still be able to enjoy one or the other regime of heavy occupation. If the legislative framework is not properly and sharply adjusted, they fall out of the boat. Mr Gilkinet's comment is very interesting. I didn't really know it, but on January 12, 2018, the MR itself stated that for the teaching staff la pénibilité du métier d'eneignant is a fact. That's very clear. That is a remark made by a Member of Parliament, which you have confirmed in your capacity as Minister. I am not speaking on behalf of your party, but I can imagine that such a statement will put you in difficult papers in the French-speaking part of the country, when, in your capacity as the competent Minister for Pensions, you come up with a regulation that will remove the teaching staff, contrary to what you stated earlier. I do not share Mr Van Quickenborne's denigrating response to people in permanent stress. Firstly, it is about excessive mental stress, which can lead to stress, which is something other than taking stress as a criterion. I have listed the professions that can be the victims of such a vision. I hope that there are enough parties in the government that are still drawing the right conclusions. I can also recommend you to read the publications of Professor Hans De Witte, one of the many experts, who clearly demonstrates that excessive mental stress is a measurable objective criterion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u41	Minister, your answer clearly shows that we are quite close to a solution. This solution has two objectives. First of all, more justice. This means equal treatment for people in a similar situation, both in the public sector and in the private sector. That is a good thing. This means leaving the system of tantiemes, which were historically built, but in which it was absolutely not clear whether they were justified. Secondly, affordability. Those who deny that pensions are affordable also, of course, deny that there is a problem. We have halved the cost of ageing thanks to the reform of this government. Ageing brings with it additional social security costs. Well, those charges are halved according to the Federal Planning Bureau. One can discuss the greatness, but at least the decline has been started. However, there remains a cost of almost 2% of GDP, and that amount needs to be found. I know some of you are proposing to get it from the rich, they're going to fix it. That is the old tune, when everyone knows that one can only solve it by continuing to reform and adapting systems. Mr Minister, anyone who has a tantième is turning it into a heavy occupation, which I do not call reform. I know that's what some people want, but that's just changing the label. That's the Muppet Show and that's not what we're here for. We want a real reform in relation to the heavy professions. Don't the teachers' people fall out of the boat with the 3+1 criteria at all? No, they do not fall out of the boat when the criteria are applied. Let me give you a concrete example. In my opinion, a kindergarten teacher or teacher is exposed to non-evident working conditions. Stand among crying children every day! Apart from the stress, I believe that this is a criterion to describe a profession as heavy. Stress can get on top of it. This government doesn't say stress is never a criterion. Stress is an aggravating factor, a factor that comes on top of it. It could be said that a kindergarten teacher meets several criteria. That seems to me to be a good reading of the system of criteria. Saying that education falls out of the boat is a deliberate wrong reading. I keep saying that a distinction must be made between different people in education. After all, someone in politics must dare to say, "Oh, that someone who teaches in ASO, for example in the fifth middle year of Latin and in a good college, has an occupation as heavy as someone who is in the BSO, is not correct. That's not fair, it's not right. So we have to make choices. That's what I said from the beginning. I hope this Minister will do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u42	Mr President, let us have a little thought for your Latin teachers who will not have an early pension. I don't know what the reactions will be to the Sint-Barbaracollege. Minister, my question is already in October. Reference is made to the second non-assimilated period for workers under 50 years of age. At the time, there were many contradictions between the various partners of the majority. The N-VA insisted that this should also apply to workers over 50 years of age. Minister, my question is simple. Will you again, in this Parliament, reconsider this decision and apply it also to workers over 50 years of age? Did the balance of power permanently reduce you on this measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u43	Mr Minister, contrary to what the dear colleague has said, the periods treated have obviously not been abolished at all, and it would still be lacking. When it comes to treated periods, Belgium has one of the broadest systems, if only because of the time-limited unemployment. The scheme for the periods treated was strengthened, both by the previous government and by the current government, in terms of the period of regular unemployment and in terms of the period of SWT, but it is still building up unlimited pension rights, on a minimum annual duty based on a fictitious gross annual income of EUR 23 841.73. That's higher than minimum wage. Thus, the periods treated were not abolished. There are also many exceptions. There is the debate on the 50+, which I will not repeat, and on the SWT system in firms in difficulty or in restructuring. The entanglement of the epochs has been a conscious choice. After all, we assume that there must be a distinction between people who work and those who do not work, not only in terms of the wages they earn while working, but also in terms of the pension structure. Minister, it seems that about 30% of the pension rights of the Belgians are still made up of similar periods. That is not surprising, since a Belgian works only for 32 years and can therefore count on a total of similar periods of 13 years. When one speaks of 30% of pension rights from treated periods, it means that at 30% of pension rights no social contributions are paid. In other words, that's getting a pension and not paying for it. When looking at the problem of financing, the problem is always placed with the rich. No, make sure that more people contribute and contribute longer, because then there is a solid basis for pensions. Mr Minister, have you made a simulation of how the 30% rate will decrease in the coming years? The figures from the Planning Bureau show that the reforms of the last seven years have increased the average retirement age by one and a half years and that the rate of activity of 55-plussers has evolved from 42% to 50% in recent years. So we see that the reforms of the last seven to eight years prove that there is longer work in the field. In other words, we must not take a fatalist view of this, because the measures are paying off. Do you have any idea how the 30% rate will decrease in the long term? I hope so, because if it were to increase, we would not be doing very well. What is the percentage of periods treated in other countries? Can you give some sort of target, expressed as a percentage, in the medium term? I realize that I am asking for a number of academics, but it is always good to know what direction we want to evolve in.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the reform of similar periods, contrary to what is sometimes said, the principle of equal periods has obviously not been removed. All that is illness, maternity leave, disability, accidents at work, all these periods are always treated as 100%, as has always been the case. Admittedly, distinctions were already introduced under the previous government with regard to unemployment and pre-pension. The differences were for those over 50 years of age and those under 50 years of age. This is, in short, the way in which the dossier was envisaged, with a very clear budgetary impact, namely 7,680,000 euros in 2019, 21 million euros in 2020, 33 million euros in 2021 and 46 million euros in 2022! These amounts take into account the exception introduced for unemployed people aged 50 and over. As regards the question of the number of persons working under temporary contracts, who cannot return to the first period of unemployment because they do not meet the conditions, I should like to inform you that these are statistics in the field of unemployment and fall within the competence of the Minister for Employment, whom I invite you to question. Mr Van Quickenborne, we do not have precise statistics concerning a simulation of the evolution of the percentage of periods assimilated as a result of the various reforms decided by the current government and the previous government. These studies are ongoing. Several figures have been cited, but they are generally subject to different interpretations. I believe that these issues need to be further refined in the future, including comparisons with the average percentage of similar periods in other European countries. That would be interesting. However, I would like to stress that the aim of the whole of the government's measures is to increase the number of effective years of work for all workers. It is now important to increase the number of periods worked, which is capable of ensuring the sustainability of pensions and social contributions to finance them. With a view to relativising, I would add that, with regard to the reform over similar periods, for an estimated budget of between 7 million in 2019 and 46 million in 2022, I would like to compare these figures with the overall pension budget, which in Belgium is equivalent to 44 billion in 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, our respective philosophies are very different. That is what distinguishes me from my colleague, Mr. Van Quickenborne. From my point of view, an unemployed person is already punished in his life because there is no job and this situation is not rewarding given the small number of people returning. Being unemployed does not make it possible to live in Belgium today. The budgetary, social and philosophical question before us is whether a person should be punished at the end of his or her life at the time of his or her pension. It is this debate that is going through our society. Indeed, as a social party, we ask ourselves why we punish people who are already victims of social choices twice. We're not gonna turn around the pot. At the time of full employment, there was no jobless! The equation is quite simple. It is not the unemployed who creates the absence of employment! It is the lack of employment that creates the unemployed! It is so obvious from an economic point of view! The political world must ensure that a world with full employment is organized so that there will no longer be a need for similar periods in relation to periods of unemployment. In this case, we are dealing with the problem here with the little bit of the lorgnette and these people will be doubly punished at the end of their careers. I didn't hear you come back to the 50-year-old question. I assume that the agreement will remain as it stands and that the N-VA will not put you back under pressure when the agreement dates back to November. I hope you can come back to these kinds of decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u46	Minister, when voting on the draft law on mixed pensions, about 1 200 teachers lost basic education on average about 200 euros a month's pension, just because previous promises included in the education cao for 2013 were not fulfilled. In 2013, the primary education teachers who initially had the status of social worker were promised that they could make the transition to an educational status. That statute would be a better pension. Moreover, pension rights built up since 2007 would count for the statutory pension. That was the deal. Due to the fact that the staff were not recognised as teaching staff until 1 January 2018, they were no longer entitled to the more favourable civil servants' pension. As a result, nothing came of the promise that the pension rights they had acquired since 2007 would count for that statutory pension. Minister, I know you didn't make those promises, they were others. Anyway, that doesn't send a message to the people involved. We then tabled an amendment to remove this injustice. However, despite statements of support from colleagues from CD&V and Open Vld for primary education teachers, this was voted out by the entire majority. Of the many primary education teachers facing this situation, I am now informed that they would receive a contribution of EUR 1 770 per year in compensation for a full-time teacher appointed. Minister, these people have not been helped by new promises. There are already enough promises that were made to them broken. What they want and deserve is a real solution. I have a few questions about this. Is it true that the teachers appointed on 1 January 2018 will receive a premium of EUR 1 770 per year for full-time employment? Secondly, is this premium paid retroactively? How far back does that go in time? Thirdly, how will this payment be settled in practice? Fourthly, will teachers who retire in the near future actually receive contributions? Fifthly, how will teachers be informed about this new scheme?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u47	Mr. Chair, Minister, my question was tabled on October 12, 2017. Having said that, my colleague has just recalled the story. It is true that at the time we had been widely solicited. But since then, a lot of water has flowed under bridges as legislative work has continued. I won't call back the background, we all know it here. But when we worked on this text, you did not want to settle the issue through an amendment. This is still a challenge to commitments that could be considered as having been pre-concrete. You justified your view by saying that this issue should not be resolved in the context of the bill, but in a different way. Minister, what about today? I have just heard that measures have been announced. Is that correct? If so, how? What about funding? Is this federal funding? If a solution is actually made by the federal government with respect to the personnel file of the basic education centres, will it be ensured that the same approach is taken with respect to any personnel other than the one in question, but who would find themselves in exactly the same situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u48	Mr President, Minister, when collective agreement III was concluded in 2013, staff in basic education were promised the transition to a statute in 2015, including retroactivity for pension calculation since 1 September 2007, when primary education was covered by Education. Meanwhile, quite a bit has happened. My first question dates back to October 2017. Apparently, the commitment to retroactivity would not be honoured. However, in the past, in the transition from a temporary to a statutory employment, all years as contractual for the pension were converted into years as an official, which is ultimately more advantageous. The same mechanism also plays in the administration outside of Education. The government wants to review this now. Education would be retained as an exception. Basic education is of course covered by Education, so it seems logical that the spirit of that exception also applies to the people in basic education. It is important for them that in the transition to statutory employment, their previous years as contracted can be converted into years as statutory. I think I know that in the meantime there has been consultation with Flemish Minister Crevits to find a solution to this problem. The question of whether there was the possibility of a permanent appointment for the staff of basic education seems to be crucial. As a result, the contractual years performed before the permanent appointment could also be included in the calculation of the statutory pension. However, it is also clear that promises were made. There are copies of it. There would now be a premium to fill the gap. I haven't heard you say anything about it yet, so I'd like to present it to you. I would like a little more explanation about a premium system rather than a change to the draft law. In any case, I would like to point out the urgency, since there are staff in basic education who have been appointed as of 1 January 2018 and are soon to reach retirement age and retire.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u49	Mr President, with regard to matters relating to the teaching staff of the centres for basic education, I refer to the discussions on this subject that took place in our Social Affairs Committee on the joint pension bill. As I indicated in committee, the joint pension bill is obviously not the cause of the problem for this staff. However, I undertook in committee to seek a solution with my colleague, Mrs Crevits. As you know, we have found a solution since the Flemish Government has announced that it will introduce a supplementary pension for this staff for the years covered by the contract. For questions relating to the practical effects of the supplementary pension, I invite you to address you to Minister Crevits, since the supplementary pension is the responsibility of the employer who sets it up, which in this case means Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u50	Minister, you have indeed promised to negotiate with Minister Crevits on this matter. That has happened now, but you have not answered a number of questions that we cannot ask Minister Crevits. What happens to people who are now retiring? Will they be able to claim this, too, or will everything be transferred to the regions? Will everything have to be solved by the Regions? The federal government doesn't make an effort on this? (...): (...) All right, thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u51	I think there will be a solution, which is a good thing. Thank you, Minister, for your efforts in this area. With our colleagues, at the committee meeting, we did what... 'Lobbyen' should not be called 'Lobbyen', Mrs Becq?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u52	Mr President, no. I think Minister Crevits has found a very good solution. Mrs Temmerman, the amount envisaged is for the nine years and is calculated proportionally if, for example, it is only eight years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u53	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Daerden's 21714 was converted into a written question. With regard to the combined questions Nos 21715 by Mr Daerden, 23603 by Mr Verherstraeten and 24227 by Mrs Temmerman, only Mrs Temmerman will ask her question. Debates of the European Parliament 22125 by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u54	Mr Minister, we have questioned you a number of times about the problem of Belgian frontier workers who have worked for a long time in the Netherlands, before their 65th unemployed, sick or disabled, and between the 65th and 67th are the result of the reform of the cross-border complement without income. In Belgium, their benefit is cancelled when they reach the statutory retirement age of 65, applicable in Belgium. Because they have worked very few years in Belgium, this pension is very low. I have examples of EUR 100, or even EUR 20. The persons concerned will then have to wait until their 67th, before they are paid their full pension from the Netherlands. So they have a problem for two years. There is still no solution. In reply to a previous question, you replied that if a specific measure adopted by one or another country would create a form of discrimination against the other workers of the countries concerned, our social security system would allow those who need to receive a benefit of the type IGO. But there are a number of conditions for the IGO. You can't have property like that. The Belgian State obliges frontier workers to sell their property, so that they are at least eligible for the IGO in order to maintain their livelihood. Do you intend, in consultation with your Dutch colleagues, to come up with a number of measures to ensure that Belgian frontier workers have a decent income in this situation? Is a Belgian-Dutch compromise still possible? Minister, I would once again like to call for a solution. I do not live in a border municipality, but I do live nearby, and I have already seen poignant situations of residents from Zelzate and Assenede who have a very small income. I am talking about 50 to 100 euros. They are obliged to apply to the OMCW. Because they have their own house, they have a problem and are actually obliged to sell their house to cover the two-year period.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u55	As far as sickness benefits are concerned, my colleague, Mrs De Block, who is competent for incapacity for work benefits, had already indicated in a reply to a parliamentary question in March 2017 that "no problem arose for a sick border worker at the end of his career. Indeed, this situation is solved by European directives." For example, a frontier worker who has worked in the Netherlands will receive a Dutch benefit in addition to his Belgian pension at the age of 65, calculated in relation to his professional career in the Netherlands. Overall, the employee will therefore receive a benefit corresponding to his full career. Another problem is legislation on unemployment benefits. I therefore invite you to address this question to the Minister for Employment. In any case, in terms of pension and disability, I do not understand what you are asking me to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u56	What you say is true if the last work was in the Netherlands. If the last job was in Belgium, then one cannot claim either unemployment benefits from the Netherlands or health insurance. If you are 65 years old and live in Belgium, you will be retired and you will no longer be able to receive sickness or unemployment benefits. Perhaps you should consult with your colleagues, Minister, because there are really poignant cases. The problem will, of course, be solved by itself, because the numbers are decreasing. The problem arises mainly among workers who have worked all the time in the Netherlands, have spent the last few years of their career in Belgium and become unemployed or ill for their 65th. They only get benefits until they're 65. They cannot claim a benefit in the Netherlands because their last job was in Belgium. I will also refer the problem to the ministers De Block and Peeters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u57	I will consult with my colleagues to provide you with a more comprehensive answer on these various aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u58	Mr President, Minister, my question on mypension dates back to 29 October. Anyone can consult mypension now. That's where calculations are made. It is reported that some people have to wait a long time for an answer, and sometimes they hear that their pension cannot be calculated yet and that they have to fill out another form. The question remains as to how and on the basis of which parameters the amounts communicated by mypension are calculated. Does indexing, the welfare envelope, take into account the family situation? What are the underlying tax assumptions? Then, how are people informed about the ground on which the calculations were made? Sometimes people are put on the wrong foot when it is not sufficiently clear what has been taken into account. I come to my five specific questions, Minister, but first I would like to say that I hear from a number of people that they have asked a question through mypension, but that they are asked to fill something out first. It would also happen that men are asked to give up their maiden name and that they have to wait a long time before getting an answer. I wanted to give you these points of interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u59	Mr President, Minister, the service of mypension is indeed a good instrument, which I think is working well. Today, however, it appears that not all Belgians can receive a correct calculation of their pension via mypension. About 300 000 Belgians, especially those with mixed careers, are unable to do so. The Federal Retirement Service confirms the problems. Through the radio program Hautekiet, of 31 January 2018, many people told what problems they experienced in calculating their pension. Let me give you the example of someone who contacted us in that connection. Very often it is about military careers, which are not included in the system. It is not just a question of military service but also of military career. In a certain battalion with six years military service, no one finds that six-year service in mypension. The missing years have been mentioned by everyone as unknown. The Federal Pension Service doesn't take it into account either. For some, that's a problem. After all, a number of those involved have an exceptionally long career. The absence of such a six-year service means that they will no longer be covered by the long-term unemployment scheme and will no longer be able to retire early. I know the example of someone who has a 47-year career, who couldn't retire early. That is why I have the following questions. Are you aware of the problems encountered by some 300 000 Belgians in calculating their pension on mypension? How can the problem be solved as quickly as possible? When could we effectively say that every Belgian gets its exact date and calculation? Can you guarantee that all pre-retirement persons who are close to their pension will have all the calculations available? After all, they have to make the choice. It is therefore very important for them to have the right information. Finally, especially for people with a military career, there is certainly still a need to improve. Have any contacts been made in that connection?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u60	Mr President, Minister, this question is parallel to Mrs Temmerman's question for this part. Minister, how will you encourage public services to provide the data quickly? Do you know how many people we're talking about? Will additional staff be recruited if necessary? When is that gonna be okay? I'm gonna ask my questions in addition. I'm not gonna go into it anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u61	Mr President, that is the order of the speakers. Mr Minister, mypension is absolutely to be welcomed. It is a good step forward in the provision of services for citizens. If the government takes good action, then we are not too bad to recognise it from the opposition. We receive messages from people for whom it is not possible to calculate their pension through the applications of mypension. In concrete terms, this would be a group of officials. For example, we have received concrete signals from military personnel, from whom part of their career in Defense does not count or is not added to a career in other government administrations. It is not just about mixed careers, but sometimes also about civil servants' careers. Those people get the message that there are errors in converting their file from the paper to the digital version. Mr. Secretary, are you aware of these problems? How many people are we talking about? What exactly is the underlying cause? What will you do about it? By what time can we solve that problem? Are there other ways than mypension in which these citizens can calculate or have their expected pension amount calculated?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u62	Mr. Chair, Minister, this is a key issue given the expectations of our fellow citizens regarding their pensions not only at the time of retirement, but also in terms of career choices, which they must be able to decide with full knowledge of in view of the impact on their pensions. I would like to highlight three points. My colleagues have already dealt with the first. This is the problem of mixed careers, which concerns almost 300,000 Belgians to estimate their future pension. The Federal Pension Service does not have a number of career data for civil servants. This is also the case for some careers abroad or for a break in military service. What steps do you intend to take to make this information available? Then, you recently announced that it would be possible to measure the impact of the graduation bonus, which we know will be variable geometry. When can this calculation be performed? What will be the different simulation capabilities of the module? For example, if someone hesitates about the possible acquisition – partial or full – of their years of study, how can the module help them make a decision? In addition, several citizens have asked me about their ability to combine pensions and wages. Their questions are addressed to the various services, which have confirmed to them that they are subject to the conditions allowing them to benefit from this cumulation. On the other hand, there is a huge difficulty in changing the tax brackets. In view of the higher incomes of the households concerned, they question how they will have to pay their taxes, the impact of which will vary. As the Service is unable to provide specific responses, they are directed to the FPS Finances and its various services, but they are also not in a position to respond. Since, in my view, there will be more and more demands in this direction, we would have to see if it would not be appropriate to provide for an articulation between MyPension (the SFP) and the FPS Finance services so that, on the basis of concrete situations, there could be modelling. Indeed, the impact may be negative in a combination of pensions and wages; this is not entirely excluded in different cases. So I think it's really important for people to have a clear idea of their situation before they even combine pension and work income.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u63	Mr President, in relation to the estimation of the statutory pension, as shown on mypension, it is important to note that this amount is always based on the data that are known at the time of accessing the website. The amount therefore does not take into account the index adjustments, wage adjustments or adjustments to the welfare envelope that could take place in the future, as such adjustments are difficult to predict. The amount shown is always the amount for a single person. The net amount is calculated on the basis of the principle that it is a single person without dependent persons, who has no other income or other pensions and who is not disabled. In other words, no account is taken of the family situation, the real tax situation or any other income. Every citizen who consults his statutory pension estimate will find on the same page the different parameters used for the pension calculation and will also find the necessary explanations regarding the net calculation. I am aware of the fact that at present some 300 000 Belgians cannot consult the estimate of the amount of their future pension via MyPension. At the time of the launch of the new version of MyPension, the Federal Pension Service had already indicated that an automatic estimate would not be possible in all cases. The problems arise mainly, as announced, in the case of a mixed civil servant-employee career. Mrs Becq asked about the number of people with mixed careers. According to the figures supplied to me by the Federal Pension Service, I can tell you that it concerns 190 000 people. The lack of automatic estimation is due in the majority of cases to the lack of some career data in the public sector. I have a table – which I can give you – that includes a number of public employers who have rates that vary between 50% and 100% of expected certificates! They're in violation of the law. If an automatic estimate is not possible, what do we do? We send a signal to the appropriate department as soon as the person in question consults his file on mypension.be. If the person visiting the site does not obtain an estimate, a signal is automatically sent to the pension department. The service then reviews the file in order to resolve the anomaly that prevents automatic estimation. If necessary, the competent service shall contact the public employer in order to obtain the missing data. As soon as the anomaly is resolved, the citizen receives an e-mail inviting him to consult the amount of his future pension. In response to the demand for the use of additional personnel for the processing of this data, I can assure you that the effectives in the Federal Pension Service are sufficient. I repeat that the problem once again arises mainly at the level of certain employers in the public sector. On the question of how I will encourage public sector employers to provide the necessary data, I inform you that I am considering imposing a sanction on public sector employers who have still not provided their career data more than two years after the deadline set by the Capelo Act. In response to Mrs Fonck's question about foreign careers, I confirm that foreign insurance periods are not currently available on MyPension, as the SFP does not have this information before starting the award procedure. In order to be able to integrate this data in the future, the Federal Pension Service participates in the European EESSI project. This European project brings together data from member countries. For the timing of this project, the SFP is largely dependent on other EU member countries. Progress has been made recently. Mr De Vriendt, the citizens for whom an automatic estimate via mypension is not possible always have the possibility to submit an application for estimation to the Federal Pension Service. I would like to make it clear that in the above cases, and when the information is missing, no amount is obviously shown. It is therefore not correct to say that these amounts are wrong, because there are no amounts. Moreover, I find it a pity that very few people are talking about the 7 million people who, thanks to MyPension, have access to an automatic estimate of the amount of their future pension. It is difficult to say when an automatic estimate will be possible for everyone, since the SFP depends on public employers for this. I hope, however, that they will take the necessary steps to resolve these problems as quickly as possible. I come to Mrs Fonck's question about the simulation of the impact of the acquisition of years of study. I confirm that the simulation module for civil servants has been available on MyPension since the beginning of this month. This module allows civil servants to see what part of their degree is still taken into account free of charge, and to simulate the impact of the purchase of the remaining years. I asked the SFP to add as soon as possible a single simulator for employees and self-employed persons. The simulation module will then be extended to other scenarios, simulating the impact of different career choices on the pension. With regard to the information given on MyPension and on pension-work cumulation, I should like to refer you to the answer I gave to Question No 22198 by Mrs Becq. The gross/net simulator on MyPension does not include income other than personal retirement pension. It's obvious. I call on citizens who have tax-related issues, in the event of pension-work cumulation, to contact the FPS Finances. This is a purely fiscal issue. This problem will never be solved on MyPension. I'm sorry, but it's impossible. As regards the changes concerning the periods treated and the unit of career, I would like to inform you that they have not yet been integrated into the calculation engine of mypension, which is also indicated on the website itself. I've asked the Federal Pension Service to integrate these changes as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which clarifies a few things. As far as the parameters are concerned, it may not always be so clear to the people, although it is described there. However, this is not always accessible. I had asked for the figures for the various sectors. I am therefore pleased that you have given figures on the places where people are not yet in order in the public sector. I also understand that you will follow this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u65	Minister, it is mostly about the public sector. A solution must be found to speed up the transmission of data. Personally, I get most complaints about the Defense Sector. Maybe you can talk to your colleague about this. I will also urge him to put these matters in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u66	Minister, we are pleased with your answer. Of course, many employees cannot remain in the dark because their employer does not do what he or she has to do. We shall certainly follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u67	Minister, public employers obviously have to be diligent about mixed careers. In the meantime, individual treatment that allows them to respond, even if delayed, is a good thing. It would also be important to proceed in the same way for those who have made a career abroad, even if this is more complex, since it is necessary to make contact with employers located abroad. But from the moment when the submission of such data is a problem for other countries, it may finally be possible to reach an agreement at European level. As far as the diploma bonus is concerned, I look forward to the civil servants. You say this will be put in place for employees and self-employed people. But when? Indeed, you know as well as I do that if decisions are to be taken taking into account the different situations envisaged to have, at first, a more favourable situation than in the case of a buy-back, in a second stage, it is necessary to...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u68	Regardless of MyPension, a service is available.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u69	Yeah, but he doesn't do simulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u70	They can turn to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u71	For their personal simulation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u72	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u73	In the meantime, can all employees and self-employed people apply to this service for a simulation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u74	Yes, from the moment they ask themselves whether or not they have to buy back their years of study.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u75	I imagine this service uses MyPension's data to make them a simulation without buyback and a simulation with buyback?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u76	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u77	In any case, this component needs to be reviewed quickly so that people can decide in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u78	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u79	As far as pension-work cumulation is concerned, it may not be MyPension's job, but I see that these people have approached – and that is logically what I had advised them when they asked me – the various services of the FPS Finances since there are still some that are relocated. The problem is not that they are being repackaged, even if they are almost, but that they are being asked to come back with their records when they are pensioned and then they will be calculated. The challenge is to allow them to decide, when they have a job, whether they take their pension or not, or if they still wait a little longer. The same level of authority is discussed here, since Finance and Pensions are the federal responsibility. Would it not be possible, in collaboration with the Minister of Finance, to give a little boost to the FPS Finances? On the basis of MyPension simulations, people (and households) know the amount of their pension. With the supplementary payroll, the FPS Finances, on the basis of a priori pension income and labour income, the current wage, must be able to give them the real impact of their taxes and ensure that a number of them do not lose more than they earn there; on the income side of the household, of course. This element seems important and interesting to me so that people can make informed decisions. Thank you for them, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u80	At the end of last year, the Constitutional Court partially destroyed the scheme whereby the age for the survivor's pension is gradually increased to 55 years by 2030. The Constitutional Court considered that it represented a significant decline for those who were not or only partially active in the labour market and could not go back there. The survivor's pension was replaced by unemployment benefit after a transitional period of one to two years. A new regulation must therefore be drawn up, Minister, or you must provide for a longer transitional period. In what way will you respond to the destruction by the Constitutional Court? What do you do for those persons who have already received a survivor's pension under the destroyed scheme before the judgment by the Constitutional Court? How many people is that about?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u81	I remember it was 55 years old! It was the previous government that introduced the principle of the transitional allowance and the gradual raising of the age of access to the survivor's pension. It had provided for the gradual raising of the age of access to the survivor's pension from 45 to 50 years by 2025. The government continued the recovery and gradually increased it to 55 years in 2030. This means that in fact no one is concerned. However, the Constitutional Court had to rule only on the rehabilitation initiated by this government. Thus, the previous measure to raise the age of access to the survivor's pension to 50 remains. I have taken note of the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which cancels the increase in the age of admission to the survivor's pension from 50 to 55 years by 2030 for certain persons, and will not take any action. At this stage, moreover, my administration should not take any special action, since these are situations that will occur at the earliest from 2025. It seems to me that it is up to the next government to comply with the judgment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u82	Minister, you seem to be a very forward-looking man, as you are moving the matter through. It was not my intention to state that a bad measure was taken in the previous legislature. It is particularly important to be alert to its consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u83	Mr. Chair, Minister, the government has decided to undertake major and necessary reforms to our pension system. We have always supported them, because they are a political and social requirement not to see our system of solidarity disappear. Only citizens wonder about their pensions. That is legitimate. The main concerns relate to the amount of the pension they will receive and the date of their retirement. Faced with this, the government made the right decision to inform the citizen with the website mypension.be However, it has been brought to our attention that Belgian citizens have relatively poor expectations of their pensions. Nearly one in two Belgians has not yet thought about planning their pension and more than 7 out of 10 admit that they do not know our pension system, according to a study carried out by Ipsos. However, in order to establish at best a fair and adequate pension, we believe that citizens need to become more aware of the opportunities and benefits available to them. In the face of these problems, we believe that this lack of information and knowledge is highly detrimental to them. It would be interesting, from a win-win perspective, to strengthen these. Minister, have you consulted the study published by Ipsos? What is your analysis of this one? What are the main reasons for this lack of information and knowledge of the Belgian citizen in relation to his pension? How do you intend to address the lack of information and knowledge about pensions? How do you think you will put more emphasis on the range of opportunities available to grow them? How can we improve the citizen's accountability so that he or she can best anticipate his or her pension?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u84	Mrs Galant, I have indeed read the results of the survey carried out by Ipsos last November. I would like to inform you that this is a survey conducted at the request of CBC Bank, in connection with the establishment of a website providing information on third-pillar products offered by CBC Bank. As you yourself point out in your question, I believe that MyPension is a very important tool, which makes it possible to inform the public well, both as regards the age at which every citizen can take his pension and as regards the amount of the pension to which he will be entitled. I would like to recall in this context that, on my proposal, the government has provided significant additional funding to the Federal Pension Service for the development of MyPension. As you may know, the development of the site will continue in 2018 and 2019 in order to offer citizens the opportunity to simulate the impact of certain career choices on the amount of their legal pension. In addition to the information on the legal pension, MyPension has also provided, since the end of 2016, an overview of the rights under a possible supplementary pension. By visiting this site, the citizen thus has a very complete view of his pension rights, both for the first and for the second pillar. In addition to MyPension, the website of the Federal Pension Service offers comprehensive general information on the Belgian pension system, including pension calculation, career conditions, etc. Although I believe that, of course, we must continue to invest in the clarity and readability of our pension system in order to inform all citizens as best as possible, I find that we have made significant strides in this area in recent years. I am convinced that the progress made in this area will bear fruit and that more information will be available to citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u85	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u86	Question No 22385 by Mrs Catherine Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u87	Minister, recently the Senate dealt with the conflict of interest on the draft law on mixed pensions in the public sector. Wonder over wonder was also found there that no consensus could be found between the Federal Chamber and the French Community Commission. The draft law can now be returned to the Chamber in the near future, where it can be dealt with further. The conflict of interest of the French Community Commission has wasted a great deal of valuable time and has delayed some of the necessary reforms. In response to a previous question in committee, you have already indicated that the delay or delay will have no impact on the construction of the second pillar of contractual officials. That is a good thing. However, there is an impact to be expected due to the delay in adjusting the modalities of financing the consolidated pension fund for local authorities. This adjustment should ensure that the necessary funds are collected more quickly. Existing legislation now leads to under-financing of the fund. The conflict of interest invoked by the French Community Commission may lead to a thesaurus problem. As a result, the pay-out of pensions in a number of municipal and urban administrations is likely to become problematic. That is why I have the following questions for you. Firstly, is the delay that has occurred such that there will indeed be a thesaurus problem? Secondly, if so, in which cities or municipalities is that the case? Thirdly, do you have any indication of the timing of the examination of the bill in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u88	The question of the consequences of the conflict of interest submitted by the French Community Commission was addressed during the Management Committee of the local and provincial authorities of 18 December 2017. It was indicated that due to the conflict of interest, monthly response contributions will only be paid to the Consolidated Pension Fund from June 2018. The administration has indicated that there will be no treasury problem if monthly payments can start in the month of June. However, the amount of the final accounts for November and December, to be paid by local authorities, will be higher than the amount initially foreseen. On the question of how the payment difficulties of the local authorities can be averted, I can say that this falls within the competence of the regional supervisory ministers. I would add that the conflict of interest is now over and that the joint pension bill will be debated in plenary on Thursday next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u89	Minister, I am glad that the thesaurus problems have been settled and I look forward to the debate on the draft law in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u90	[QNF01/v22898-v24218]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u91	Minister, with the sixth state reform, the Länder were responsible for both general career breaks and end-of-life schemes. Since 2 September 2016, the Flemish healthcare credit has replaced the staff of the Flemish public sector and the staff of the provinces and municipalities. Both contractual employees and statutory officials have been entitled to 18 months full-time healthcare credit, 36 months half-time healthcare credit or 90 months 1/5th healthcare credit since that date. There is also an interruption allowance on the other hand. The right shall be opened on condition that training is followed or a reason for care can be demonstrated. It is about caring for a child up to 12 years old, caring for a severely ill family member, providing palliative care and caring for a child with disabilities. Before the reform, the period of the career break was an equivalent period for pension building. Since 2012, equivalence has in principle been limited to 12 months. In order for the care credit to be eligible for the pension calculation, the care credit should also be included in the list in the Annex to the Act of 6 January 2014 in order to allow the Flemish healthcare credit to be considered as an equivalent period for pension building. How are we doing with the addition of the healthcare credit in the royal decree? Is this still being discussed, or has it already been dealt with? Will you ensure that the entire healthcare credit is considered equivalent for the calculation of the pension?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u92	(...) the sector and the draft royal decree for the contractual staff are ready. The Flemish government provides for the regulation of the healthcare credit that for all employees of the Flemish government the counter is set at zero on the right to healthcare credit. On the other hand, periods of career break already included are taken into account for the equalization of the pension, in consultation with the Flemish government. I intend to submit the preliminary draft law shortly to the Council of Ministers and then to the usual bodies of social dialogue. The draft royal decree should not be submitted to the Council of Ministers. It was submitted to the Management Committee of the Federal Pension Service, which gave its opinion on the text on 21 December 2016. However, the Minister for the Budget asked me for additional information on the budgetary impact of the reform. That is why I urged the Federal Pension Service to provide that information as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u93	Thank you for your answer. I have another question. Does it mean an equivalence for 18 months or 12 months, so the entire period of the Flemish healthcare credit? Or is that point still under discussion?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u94	I think it is under discussion with regard to the overall budgetary impact, but I do not have a precise answer today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u95	If you could tell me, maybe tomorrow, that would be nice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u96	You want to know if it's 18 months or 12 months?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u97	There is a possibility to withdraw 18 months of care credit, or a longer period, but half-time or one fifth.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u98	Mr President, Minister, at the end of 2015, in implementation of the agreement of the Group of Ten, we provided for the linking of the inclusion of the supplementary pension to the statutory pension. This means that it is compulsory to take up the supplementary pension at the time of retirement or early retirement. In the past this could be postponed or brought forward, but today these benefits are linked. A transitional period is provided for, but the principle is that both are linked. This has tax implications and I have tabled a legislative proposal in this area. In fact, I invite colleagues to sign this with me. In my legislative proposal, I ask that people who have a full career of 45 years but are younger than 65 years should be taken into account. At 65 one has to pay 10 % taxes and not 16 %. I do not think this is right for those who have a full career of 45 years at that time. If you support this bill, you can say the same later. I received a lot of questions from people who signaled to me that the Federal Pension Service, when one asks when one can retire, indicates that one should not say this to the employer. Apparently, pension services receive a standard communication stating the desire to retire, and apparently this should not be communicated to the employer either. Some employers find this regrettable, because if this were to be reported, they could also be informed of possible supplementary pension problems. I'm going after what I'm being spotted. Is this true? Do you know about this practice? Why is this so communicated by pension services? There are other social and/or fiscal consequences for the beneficiaries concerned. Would you like to ask the pension services to warn against any tax consequences? This does not seem to me to be a problem for the present because there are small transitional periods, but it is important for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u99	Mr President, Mrs Becq, I can tell you that the information I have at my disposal does not indicate that the FPD, as indicated by you, would inform the employees who are questioning the FPD about the possibility of taking up the early retirement pension that they should not disclose their intention or their decision to take up their pension to their employer. However, I believe that it would be better to inform employees that if they take up their pension early or not, they will also receive their supplementary pension. I am currently working with the FPD on the content of a communication on this subject which would be communicated to the employee whenever he applies for a pension, at the time of notification and on mypension. The employee will be advised to contact his pension institution. I can tell you that I will evaluate with the FPD whether it would be possible to clarify that the tax applicable to supplementary pension capitals is more advantageous if the employee remains active until the age of 65 and therefore if he does not take up his statutory pension for that age.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u100	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u101	Mr Demon is not present for his question No. 23760.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u102	Minister, the well-known solidarity contribution was introduced in our country in 1993. We're celebrating her 25th birthday. No matter how good that name sounds, it's a tax. The introduction of a new tax appears to be easier than the abolition of an existing tax. As Milton Friedman once said, "There is no such thing as temporary subsidies; they last forever." I received many messages from citizens who consider it unfair that they should pay a social contribution to their pensions. In itself, it's hard to blame them. They have spent their entire career paying social contributions on their wages, precisely to finance the pension. It is therefore difficult for them to understand that they also have to pay a social contribution during their retirement period, which is not subject to any additional social rights. Mr Minister, on 20 April 2016 and 30 May 2017, I already asked you about the calculation of the solidarity contribution to the inclusion of supplementary pension capital. You replied that you would make an analysis to see if it would be possible to reduce the fictitious interest rate of 4.74%, which, of course, no longer corresponds to the actual interest rates. In addition, the government has already decided to reduce the solidarity contribution gradually by 25% from 1 January 2019. That is, in itself, a step in the right direction. Can you tell me what's going on? Are you planning a reduction in the notional interest rate for the conversion of supplementary pension capital? If so, how much will it amount to and when will it enter? Are you planning a 2 % reduction in the rate? If yes, for which sections of the total gross pension amount? When will the reduction apply?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u103	Since the budgetary notification of the Council of Ministers of 20 October 2016 only provides for a gradual reduction of the solidarity contribution from 1 January 2019, I will only present a proposal in this respect when drawing up the initial budget for 2019. At the moment, therefore, I do not wish to comment on the content of a proposal. I will pay particular attention to the lowest pensions that are subject to the solidarity contribution. Moreover, I remain of the opinion that, as I indicated earlier, the technical interest rate of 4.75% on the conversion of capital into fictitious interest rates no longer corresponds to the reality of the interest rates currently applicable. In view of the Government's decision to gradually reduce the solidarity contribution from 1 January 2019, I cannot address the issue of a possible adjustment of the technical interest rate without considering it in the more global context of the gradual reduction of 25%. Budgetary margins were set at EUR 84 million per year. I would add that it goes without saying that, in reforming this solidarity levy, it is mainly a question of eliminating a number of anomalies and inequalities which are not acceptable. Of course, this rate of 4.75% must, in my view, be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u104	Minister, I understand that you cannot say much more at the moment, and I note that the notification has been drawn up and that you also want to eliminate the anomaly with the high interest rate in the context of the reform. We hope you can do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u105	Minister, at the end of last year we adopted the law on the abolition of the unity of careers. The intention is that people who work for more than 45 years should build up an additional pension. That is, of course, a very good reform, but there is a problem. It would appear that the principle of reform, concerning the career unit, is not applicable to minimum pensions, i.e.... The minimum pension has been increased in several steps by these and previous governments. It now amounts to 1 220 euros for single people. That's a lot more than four to five years ago. This amount applies to a full career of 45 years, in which both worked and treated periods can be held. Anyone who can show only 40 years of age will receive a minimum pension equal to 40/45 of this amount. Mr Minister, now it comes to the fact that a person who can prove 47 years will not have a minimum pension of 47/45 but will receive the same minimum pension as a person who has worked 45 years. I'm listening to the translation. It would be more logical if the abolition of the unit of career would also apply to the minimum pension. This would mean that anyone who is still working effectively after 45 years of working life would in future also build up additional allowances for the minimum pension. I come to my questions. First of all, do you share this view? Do you think that the abolition of the unit of career should also apply to the minimum pension? Secondly, do you know how much this would cost? Of course, there's a cost. Thirdly, do you intend to take an initiative in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u106	It is indeed correct that the abolition of the unit of career for the periods actually worked does not apply to the granting of the minimum pension. The rules governing the minimum guaranteed pension do not at present allow these periods to be taken into account, since the break used for the calculation is limited to the unit. However, like you, I believe that the abolition of the unity of career should also be applied in the case of the minimum pension. Since this is a reform of the minimum pension regulation, I believe that such a reform should be carried out within the framework of a more global reform of the system of minimum protection. With regard to the budgetary impact of the abolition of the unit of career for effective working periods in the case of the minimum pension, I give you the figures that were transferred to me by the FPD: EUR 36 733 for 2019, EUR 109 029 for 2020, EUR 180 825 for 2021, EUR 252 137 for 2022 and EUR 322 990 for 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u107	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u108	Minister, this is a very technical question. Anyone who builds up a supplementary pension can insure his pension capital with a death cover. In this way, the capital will not be lost and the partner, the children or potential beneficiaries will be paid a capital or interest. However, the question arises as to what happens when a person retires, for example when a person changes work and thus becomes a sleeper in the former employer's pension plan. Thanks to the reform of the Supplementary Pensions Act, which we adopted at the end of 2015, the situation in which many of the people involved in retirement lost their cover for their deaths was met. Since 1 January 2016, the sleepers have been able to take a new death cover on the dormant reserves. However, there have also previously been people who had taken death cover to ensure dormant reserves up to the age of 60, as this was the age at which the supplementary pension could take effect before the legislative amendment. The new law has strengthened the age condition. From now on, the supplementary pension can only be taken up at the start of the statutory pension. That was necessary. The result is, however, apparently that those who had a death cover up to 60 years must be extra insured for the years between the 60th and, for example, the 65th birthday. In the other case, death cover ends at 60 years and is not paid to relatives if, for example, the person dies at the age of 61 years. First of all, is it true that in those cases the death cover on the 60th anniversary ceases to exist? On the other hand, does the right to pay in life, which thus extends to 65 years, separate from death insurance? In other words, if the person dies after his 60th but before the 65th birthday, is a payment to the relatives provided for? Secondly, if the answer to the previous question is negative, do you understand those who consider it very unfair? After all, they took cover for death at the time when the rule was that the supplementary pension could start at 60 years. An additional death cover for the period between 60 and 65 years is often very expensive. It is a very technical but important question. Minister, we look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u109	I make a distinction between different situations. Firstly, the employee has left his employer and decides to leave his supplementary pension reserves with the pension institution of his former employer. If the pension commitment provides for the employee to remain covered in the event of death, although he is no longer employed, the pension commitment therefore provides for the reimbursement of the reserves in the event of death........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If, on the other hand, the pension commitment does not include such cover, the worker will no longer be covered in the event of death. He hasn't been covered since he quit, and he won't be at 60 years or later. So there's no problem with extending death support. Secondly, an employee has left his employer and decides to transfer his reserves to a reception structure, in order to be able to re-appreciate a death cover, as the supplementary pension plan of his former employer no longer provides for this. In this case, the employee may choose between different formulas with different death cover. If the final age at the reception structure is 60 years, the worker must simply request an extension of the contract with a formula whereby the supplementary pension reserve is paid upon death. This extension will not imply payment of an additional contribution, as the supplementary pension is financed by the pension institution. It does not therefore imply that the institution takes the risk, which implies that a premium is required. In this case, too, there is no problem with extending death cover. The worker would only have to pay an additional contribution under the assumption that an additional pension amount higher than the amount he would have received at the time of his pension would be paid to his beneficiaries. You will agree with me that in that case the approach of the working person is much broader than what is needed to ensure that his right holders do not lose supplementary pension capital.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-13-54-commissie-ic840x.u110	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
