ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u1	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the potential extension of the powers of the military police, as provided for in the government agreement. At a press conference to show the press the 40 new motorbikes acquired by the Defence for military police, you mentioned the beginning of negotiations with your colleagues in Mobility and Interior on the extension of the skills of military police. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Can you tell us more about the idea of extending the powers of the military police? What are your intentions about this? Have you ever submitted ideas to your colleagues in Mobility and the Interior? Have the negotiations for the extension of these powers already started? If not, when will they start?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u2	Madam President, Mr Crusnière, the government agreement provides that the jurisdiction of the military police will be extended so that it can intervene in cases of road traffic offences. It also states that it cannot result in the replacement of regular police services. In this context, the Defence Staff prepared a draft royal decree supplementing that of 1 December 1975 on the general regulation on road traffic police and the use of public roads. In the spirit of the government agreement, the proposed provisions are not intended to confer administrative or judicial police powers on MPs, nor to grant them police status, nor to make the military police a police service within the meaning of the legal provisions. The new powers which we propose to assign to MPs will be granted to them as qualified agents, according to the agreement recognised by the Royal Decree of 1975, in the framework of the road traffic regulations. In this way, MPs will be able, in the performance of their duties, to issue orders for the movement of vehicles and to ensure compliance with the provisions relating to military convoys, transports, columns, movements and escorts. In addition, in the absence of members of a regular police service, they will be given the opportunity to take precautionary measures in the event of an emergency, in the exercise of their duties. Under such circumstances, they could carry out identity checks. For the time being, this project still needs to be discussed and approved by the departments and ministers of Mobility and Security and Interior, responsible respectively for the Road Traffic Code and the police services.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer. I do hear your intentions to limit the extension of the powers of the military police to road traffic offences. We must not neglect an important fact and I assume that you have thought about it: control. We know that at the level of the police forces, Committee P is responsible for carrying out such missions. What about our military police? We must pay attention to this reflection in the context of the possible extension of their powers. It is necessary to establish who, and within what framework, will be responsible for "controlling" these new missions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u4	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the creation of a new mechanism for enhanced cooperation in defence matters. A letter of intent has indeed been signed between nine European Member States – including ours, but also the United Kingdom, which is a bit surprising – eager to go further in European cooperation in the field of European defence. This initiative, known as the European Response Initiative, should enable the Member States to develop rapid and concerted joint action in response to a disaster or crisis. This proposal therefore seems a priori to be in line with the positions taken by my group for years. Minister, can you tell us more about the purpose of this project and about the future interactions that will take place between this group, NATO and permanent structured cooperation? In concrete terms, how will this be achieved in terms of command and, above all, budget? The group currently composed of nine Member States may be joined by Italy in the coming weeks – we are talking about it. Have other States expressed interest in the project? The United Kingdom, which is one of the nine States that have signed the Letter of Intent, will therefore be able to remain in the European project despite Brexit, since it is one of the nine signatory countries. Finally, I would like to know Belgium's position on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u5	My question follows on from this, Minister. The French Minister for Defence stated in the press that on Monday 25 June nine European countries signed a declaration of intent to set up a European intervention initiative. Our country also signed this declaration of intent. Firstly, can you explain this statement of intent? What are the main obligations of this agreement for our defence policy? Secondly, were other countries invited to sign the declaration? If so, what were the reasons for not signing? Do they leave open the possibility of a future signature? Thirdly, what impact does this declaration of intent have on PESCO's military cooperation? So much for my questions. Since Mr Dallemagne is not present to put his question No. 26358, I give the floor immediately to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u6	Madam President, Mr Crusnière, the European Intervention Initiative was launched by France, which wants, in the first place, to create a common strategic security culture. As a first step, therefore, the aim is to facilitate consultation before and during crises threatening European security. The European Intervention Initiative is not linked to a particular organisation. But both NATO and the European Union will benefit from this awareness on the part of the signatory countries. Nor does the Initiative intend to create an additional operational or command structure. Therefore, there will be no budgetary impact other than on the participation of staff officers in meetings. The signatory countries are Belgium, Denmark, Estonia, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain and the United Kingdom. Italy, due to the recent change of government, was unable to reach a political agreement in time to sign the letter of intent. The accession of other countries could be considered in the future. This initiative is therefore not limited to the European framework alone. The United Kingdom, like Denmark, is participating. Moreover, Brexit will probably have no impact in this area. After Brexit, the United Kingdom will still be able to participate in the PESCO projects as a third country. Given the importance of this country to European security, all member countries, as well as the United Kingdom, wish to maintain a strong security and defence relationship, which can be considered as a secondary objective of this project. The letter of intent was signed on 25 June. We are therefore in a very early stage, in which the main objectives are defined. The implementation will now be done gradually by organising exploratory meetings at strategic level. In the autumn, the initial findings will be presented to the relevant Ministers of Defence and a founding memorandum of understanding will be drawn up as the implementation becomes clearer. Belgium sees this initiative as an opportunity to initiate a common security culture, but sees no need to develop new operational or command structures for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u7	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I do hear that we are at the stage of intentions. That's already commendable. I hope that the realization will be achieved quickly. We will also see the budget that this will require because, at some point, there will still be a budgetary impact. I hear there's no extra structure. Personally, I am quite in favour of this initiative, which, as my group has been advocating for a long time, is moving towards a future defence Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. I have no further questions now, but in the autumn, after the initial findings, I will ask a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u9	Madam President, Minister, more than a year after the implementation of your reform that created the War Heritage lnstitute - which included the Royal Army Museum in particular - it seems to me important to take stock, not without taking this opportunity to pay tribute to the work done in tribute to our forgotten heroes. I was pleased to learn that the government has finally adopted a royal decree that establishes its status as a federal scientific institution with all the human and, of course, scientific implications. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following question. What will be the consequences for the functioning of the WHI of this royal decree and for the status of its staff, collections and essential scientific missions? More specifically, Minister, the MRA used part-time experts called "mission officers". These mission managers were transferred to the WHI when it was established. At present, how many mission officers are on duty with the WHI? What are the tasks assigned to them and what is the control over them? As a result of these checks, particularly in terms of actual hours worked, are wage deductions possible? Has the legislation on these mission officers been adapted prior to their transfer to the WHI? Can you describe how these mission managers are recruited? Is it following a Selor-type competition that they are responsible for such a function? If not, on what criteria and on what description of function and competencies are they? Is effective and current scientific expertise required?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u10	Fernandez Fernandez, as soon as she was created, our ambition was to make the War Heritage Institute a federal scientific institution. The decree just published gives effect to this plan and confirms a state of affairs without making any real change in the functioning of the WHI, the status of its staff, its collections or its scientific missions. The changes that still need to be made and for which work is under way are the establishment of a new scientific council and a new scientific jury for the WHI. At the level of mission officers, the royal decree regulating their designation must now be adapted to take account of the fact that they are no longer designated to work at the MRA but at the WHI. Today, these mission officers who work for the MRA are employed by the WHI. The appointed mission officer shall be given specific tasks related to the mission for which he or she has been appointed. Mission managers are assessed on the basis of their achievement of their objectives. These assessments are not conducted in terms of hours worked. The process of appointing mission officers does not include passage to the Selor. They are people in charge of a mission, once, to the MRA and, in the future, to the WHI. Mission managers must have expertise in critical and specific areas to enable the WHI to carry out its tasks. It is therefore necessary for them to have either scientific or practical expertise, as not all the tasks requested of the mission officers are necessarily scientific in the WHI areas of action.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u11	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for his answers. I am pleased to hear him say that scientific expertise prevails in the selection of mission officers. Indeed, this constitutes the bulk of their mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u12	Madam, it is precisely a question of specific scientific or practical expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u13	Madam President, since these are two joint questions, I propose to put them after each other. Minister, following a government decision, Fedasil is closing several refugee centres, including the one at the Saint John barracks in Tournai. On 31 October, the barracks will be empty; refugee candidates will have been transferred to other structures in the country. So, could you tell me what the future of the Saint John barracks will be? What specific activities, particularly at the Defence level, will it be intended for? On 23 March, the Government approved a plan to dismantle asylum places, including those in the Red Cross centre at the Saint John barracks in Tournai. In concrete terms, the remaining 240 people in the centre of Tournai will have to be transferred and the building will have to be rehabilitated within one month. It should be recalled that Fedasil's partner, the Red Cross in the case of Tournai, is responsible for this mission. In addition, your colleague, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, indicated that the partner must meet with the owner of the premises, i.e. the Defence, to agree on the precise modalities and organization of the rehabilitation of the building. Minister, have any contacts already been made between the Defence and the Red Cross in Tournai? What are the rehabilitation work to be carried out by the Red Cross? How many are assessed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u14	Madam Chair, Mr. Delannois, Defence is currently using part of the Saint John barracks as accommodation for the military. The part currently occupied by the Red Cross will be used by the Defence once it has been rehabilitated. The Red Cross has already contacted the Defence to prepare for the delivery of the buildings in accordance with the original condition. The necessary work will be carried out by the Red Cross. The extent and cost of the work can only be determined on the basis of the final condition of the site.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u15	Minister, thank you. I understand that National Defence will continue to operate at Saint John's Barracks. I am glad to hear that this building will not be abandoned. On the other hand, I am a little surprised that you cannot give me an amount because, in a previous question to Mr Franken, he mentioned an amount of EUR 14 million. This amount is very important and I think it certainly wanted to globalise all the work. I do not know what the EUR 14 million quoted by Mr Franken is, and I would have liked clarification. I see you don't know any more. It's okay. I shall rest the question in another place.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u16	Mr President, at the beginning of the current millennium, the decision to centralise the basic military system was mainly based on savings. Since then, there is one base in the north of our country, in Leopoldsburg, and one base in the south, in Arlon. In practice, this means that candidate soldiers from their residence sometimes have to travel hundreds of kilometres in order to reach the training centre. This situation cannot, of course, benefit the problem of attrition, which you are all too familiar with. The General Directorate of Human Resources therefore proposed a more geographical spread of initial training. In May 2018, a first test case would take place in Marche-les-Ladies and then in Marche-en-Famenne. I have the following questions. Can you explain the test cases? Has the training centre been opened in Marche-les-Ladies? How many candidate soldiers are currently undergoing training? How many candidate soldiers are provided for instead? How many staff are currently working on basic training in Marche-les-Ladies? I would also like to be briefed on the nature of the staff in terms of training, supporting tasks and so on. In addition to Leopoldsburg, will there be a training centre in Flanders? In the test cases we are talking about two additional places in Wallonia. Finally, Minister, do you support the plans for further decentralisation of basic education?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u17	Mr Yüksel, the purpose of the test cases is to seek regional recruitment, training and employment for the staff of the volunteers. So we're talking about the volunteers. That is the aim because we believe that it can have a positive effect on recruitment and on education. As asked in the question, it also, of course, has an impact on the number of teachers to be appointed. They too may be able to work closer to home. So it could also be positive for them. It shouldn't always be a negative effect. On 22 May 2018, the Commando Training Centre in Marche-les-Ladies welcomed a total of 49 recruits paracommands. There were 31 Dutch and 21 French-speaking places, 29 and 20 of which were filled out respectively. Given that this training center command already functions as a training organism of Defence, only a few additional functions had to be provided. This concerns the functions of the platoon framework for the two platoons, namely two officers platoon commander, two inspectors platoon commander instructor, four petty officers instructors and four volunteer assistant instructors. A permanent framework is also provided for all pupils by a day-time educator who can accompany the candidate volunteers outside of duty hours. Two additional pilot projects will start in September, one in Brasschaat and one in Marche-en-Famenne. Further decentralisation will depend, inter alia, on the initial evaluations of these pilot projects. These are expected in the first half of 2019. I can tell you that the preliminary echoes we hear from Marche-les-Ladies are positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We will, of course, come back to this once the evaluations have taken place in early 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u19	Madam President, Minister, I have a question about a massive slaughter project on the basis of Beauvechain, in the province of Walloon Brabant. The Defence would intend to carry out a large "cleaning" - term used - of the vegetation that developed on the site of the Beauvechain base. According to reports published by the press, approximately 60 hectares are thus cut off. This project is a source of concern not only for the residents of the municipality but also for associations active in the field of environmental protection. They wonder about the landscaping impact of the announced operations, whether the disappearance of plant screens will not lead to an increase in the noise and visual nuisances of military aircraft flying over the base, but also to the preservation of nature and biodiversity in a region which is quite poor in the light of the major crops that characterize it and its extensive urbanization. The treed part of the airbase really plays a very important role as a core zone for the ecological network, notably the M zone - the former base ammunition depot - which has become a paradise for many animal and plant species over time. In this 18-hectare area, bushes would be crushed, stumps removed and trees cut at the edge of the fence. Half of the surface would be converted into grasslands. However, this area, far from the runways, does not seem to pose any safety problems. These concerns are also shared by the communal authorities, who have not been reassured by their recent contact with representatives of the Defence. Minister, can you tell me exactly what is the project for the cutting of trees on the basis of Beauvechain? What is the area concerned and for which area? What does the Defence specification consist of? To what extent is Defence prepared to take into account the remarks made by local residents, municipalities and associations regarding the impact of a massive deforestation operation? Are you ready to work with them to review this project and find a better balance between safety concerns and those of preserving the living environment? What is the Defence calendar on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u20	Madam President, Mr Gilkinet, from the information received from the staff, it appears that the project concerns the maintenance and rehabilitation of certain forested and grassy areas. This is a project carried out in close consultation and collaboration with the Department of Nature and Forests. It aims, on the one hand, to improve aviation safety and, on the other hand, to improve the safety of the fence around the base and mainly also to maintain the green areas. Most of the deforested areas will be replanted. The project is not frozen in its scope, in the areas concerned, or in the implementation deadlines. Discussions on this project are under way with the municipal authorities and I hope that they will be able to conclude positively.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u21	Mr Minister, of course I do not dispute the need to maintain and secure a military site. I note with interest that this will be done in consultation with the DNF, which, in my opinion, is a good operator/counsel. As for the scope and the areas concerned, I note that there is still an opening and a dialogue with the commune. As I noted in my question, this dialogue already exists. At this stage, he did not reassure them. I hope that at the end of the race, at the end of this dialogue, we will be able to find a balance between the legitimate concern for the security of a military site and the equally legitimate concern for the preservation of the living environment and biodiversity. I will ask you again at the beginning of this year about the status of these negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u22	Madam President, Minister, this is our last meeting before the summer recess, and I would like to take this opportunity to try to gather some more information, through about seven questions, which I have given you but which I briefly list below. Firstly, was there any discussion between representatives of Belgium and the United States on or in the margins of the NATO summit about the replacement of the F-16? Secondly, can you tell me which persons or which team or body has made the evaluation of a possible extension of the F-16? Thirdly, was the complete Rafale dossier delivered by France? If not, why not? Are the talks on the confidentiality clause................................................................................................................................................................................................ If so, when could these talks be concluded? If you get the complete file, how much time does it take for the DOD to assess it? Fourthly, and this is a hypothetical question, what happens if, on 14 October, the final date given by the Prime Minister, the dossier on the French proposal has not yet been examined and completed? Will the Rafale file expire? Is the choice then limited to the two other options, the extension of the F-16 or a choice for one of the two fighter aircraft in the RfGP procedure, or is the decision then lifted in 14 October until the three slopes have been fully investigated? Fifthly, is the information that we hear from the press, in an article in De Standaard and this morning in De Tijd, correct that the offers for the F-35 and for the Eurofighter are significantly lower than the budgeted amount of EUR 3.6 billion? Can you confirm that? If the amounts are lower, can you give us some information on what type of aircraft it is? In car terms, is it about a standard model and will it have to be imposed later on for the options? Are the operating costs or the immediate investment costs to be incurred, such as training equipment, already taken into account? Is that all included in the bid amount? Sixthly, has any consideration been given at government level to possible participation in the development of the SCAF? Finally, in the article of De Standaard to which I referred earlier, there was a legal opinion which would make the agreement on a confidentiality clause between Belgium and France legally very dangerous or even impossible. Can you explain this legal advice? So far, Madam President, Minister, my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u23	Madam President, Minister, I come back once again to you concerning the replacement of the Belgian F-16s decided by the government and the government's follow-up of this dossier and all the options on the table, as the Prime Minister, on 4 July last, who assured us that all the options would be explored. In our last exchange of views prior to the NATO summit in Brussels, the Prime Minister told us, in particular, that, in the context of the French offer, France had asked Belgium, before providing further information on its proposal, to conclude confidentiality agreements – one can understand this – notably with the Rafale manufacturer, the Dassault Aviation Group. In his view, a legal analysis was under way on that subject. Minister, what is the status of these confidentiality agreements? Have you reached an agreement? Did France provide you with documents for signature? Did you analyze them? What about the government's analysis of the whole issue and the various options? Have further analyses of the various options been conducted since then by your department? What is the status of the legal analysis of the French offer?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u24	Many of your questions were answered by the Prime Minister two weeks ago. I will therefore focus on the issues that have been new since then. During the NATO summit, the US did not mention the replacement of the F-16. No member of the American delegation has spoken to me about this either informally, but I can only speak for myself, of course. As the Prime Minister has already said, I will submit all the elements of the dossier to the government. This includes all the elements that have been addressed over the past few months, including the alleged lifetime extension. We asked France to explain the proposal for strategic partnership, which France made by letter in September 2017. In May of this year there was an explanation from a delegation of Minister Parly's cabinet. The so-called non-disclosure agreements that France has offered us and asked us to sign are specifically about the purchase of Rafale aircraft. However, the purchase of Rafale combat aircraft is only an aspect of the story. Specifically with regard to the project of the next generation SCAF fighter aircraft, it is the government's wish to know what the conditions of accession are. As already mentioned, the government will make its decision on the basis of all aspects of the case, taking into account, of course, the legal opinions that have been issued. Mr van der Maelen, you will understand that I cannot go into the two best and final sacrifices. I'm not legally allowed to do that. As long as there is no award decision, no elements can be released on the evaluation dossier. The RfGP, which is publicly available on the website, describes the other costs to be charged for the evaluation of the tenders. The evaluation criteria are known. For example, the total cost of ownership is an evaluation criterion. For the total cost of ownership, I refer to the 84-page report of a hearing of the committee with Colonel Van Pee, in which he explained completely what the total cost of ownership includes. This includes operating costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u25	Minister, I have not received an answer to my question as to which body will carry out the evaluation of the extension of the F-16. I conclude from this that there is either no other evaluation or that it will be done by the same people who have misinformed the Chamber and Belgian public opinion in the past on the file on the extension of the F-16. At the very least, I would have expected to have had the foresight to re-examine the slope of the extension of the F-16 and preferably not by the same people who have dealt with that part of the dossier in the past. Minister, you have not even answered the question whether France has submitted a complete Rafale file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u26	Mr van der Maelen, I am not going to discuss this, but I would like to point out that in my reply I clearly underlined that I would explain the changes that were still taking place after the Prime Minister's statements two weeks ago. The fact is that we have not received any additional information from the French in those two weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u27	Another question is whether there has already been a shared conclusion between France and Belgium on the confidentiality clause or not? Is that problem still pending? Is that still being discussed, or is there a final agreement? Is it established by both parties whether or not a confidentiality clause can be given? We do not have that answer. We note that this is the subject of speculation in the press. I also recall the Prime Minister's promise that he would closely involve the Chamber and provide all the useful information in order to keep up with the file. That seems to me to be an obvious question to which you can answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u28	As I indicated in my reply, I explained what changes were made to the Prime Minister's statements two weeks ago. The Prime Minister mentioned the non-disclosure agreements (NDAs) two weeks ago, and I indicated today that they were being examined further. They're about buying the Rafale. It is not possible to enter into negotiations with other parties in an ongoing procedure on the same subject. That's just not allowed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u29	That is, I suppose, the conclusion of the legal study, which, if I remember correctly, has existed for a long time. Then I do not understand why the Prime Minister, in your presence fourteen days ago, suddenly came up with the new information for us that a confidentiality clause was being discussed with the French. If the legal advice, which I have the impression you are referring to now and which has existed for some time, came to the conclusion that you could not speak to the French, I do not understand why the Prime Minister suddenly came up with that new story about a confidentiality clause fourteen days ago. Either the Prime Minister does not know his file, or the Prime Minister was not informed, or for whatever reason there has been a political manoeuvre of the government, of the Prime Minister, or of yourself, I leave that in the middle. I think it is right for Parliament to ask questions. Fourteen days ago, the Prime Minister said they were talking about a confidentiality clause. I read in the press that this confidentiality clause is a dead end, because an old legal advice doesn't allow it. What's the government doing? That's kind of chaotic, I must say.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u30	Mr van der Maelen, you often use this technique: you put words in people's mouths that they have not said. I would urge you to read from time to time the report of the committee meetings containing the statements made there. In the past I have been put in the mouths of all kinds of words, and they have even tried to support this with false e-mails. Again, that's not what the Prime Minister said. The Prime Minister did not say that we are negotiating NDAs. The Prime Minister said that this could raise legal problems. I do not remember the exact words he used, but he made it clear that there is a legal problem with signing documents relating to negotiations on the same subject, which is already under procedure. That is also what I indicated in my reply. Mr van der Maelen, you always say that you have been here for a long time and have a great deal of experience. I have every respect for that, but it wouldn't be bad to look at the facts from time to time instead of what you think you're hearing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u31	As has been the case several times, we clearly have a difference of opinion on information, which we judge differently. I think that will continue to be the case, Minister. I'm sticking with my ruling. Fourteen days ago, the Prime Minister spoke here for the first time about a confidentiality clause. I think most of my colleagues have interpreted this so much that they are investigating the Rafale dossier. The Prime Minister had previously promised that the three slopes would be fully explored. Today I see that you give me evasive answers to my questions. I don't think we'll convince each other, Minister, you won't convince me and I won't convince you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u32	It would be good to speak the truth, Mr van der Maelen. Just the facts and the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u33	Please don't blame each other for not telling the truth. I didn't do that to you today either.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u34	Up to and including bringing in false witnesses and false e-mails. You have heard 27 or 28 people on the committee, 27 of whom sounded unisono. Apparently they all lied, they're all incompetent, they're all not good enough. Only the one you staged would tell the truth. I've been told a lot, a lot, but I've been abstaining from that kind of reaction. It seems to me that it is time for you to confine yourself to what has been said effectively in the Chamber and, in principle, to what is also to be found in the reports that the services deliver here in an excellent way, in all the national languages you want. I shall confine myself to that. If you want to interpret it, you can do it, because there are still people who do it. The facts, however, remain the facts, and you cannot ignore them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u35	I repeat that the Prime Minister was the first 14 days ago to speak of a confidentiality clause. Between then and now I read in De Standaard, a generally reliable newspaper, that that is a dead end, because an old, existing legal advice would make that impossible. I ask you whether you confirm that or not, but I note that I am not getting an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u36	How many times do I have to repeat it? I have several legal opinions, all of which go in the same direction. We cannot enter into negotiations on a subject which is subject to official procedures. How many times do I have to repeat that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u37	Then why did the Prime Minister mention that 14 days ago? It is the Prime Minister who quoted it. Why didn't you tell the Prime Minister before the Prime Minister came to our committee, or why didn't you say at the meeting that that was a dead end?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u38	Mr van der Maelen, again, read what has been said, read what is in the report. That in every sense you find only what you like, you do but, for God's sake, read what is in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u39	As in the past, Minister, I will question the Prime Minister on this matter. My fourth question was the following. Is the Prime Minister's promise that the three slopes will all be fully investigated? Do I understand your answer that we must forget the Rafale slope and that it cannot and will not be investigated, that the government will take a decision in the next few days or weeks and make a choice between extending the life of the F-16s and a new fighter plane, with the choice of a new fighter plane limited to the F-35 and the Eurofighter? I think that is an obvious question for a Member of Parliament who follows the dossier. So I'm asking you that question. I note, however, that I did not receive an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u40	Mr Van der Maelen, I would like to quote my answers. I wonder why I'm giving you answers here. The least courtesy you could show is to listen when I say something. I've said it several times. The Council of Ministers will examine all the relevant elements in the dossier, including the story of the past few months. After that, I specifically repeated it in French. Once the committee's report has been drawn up, read the report again and please stop putting words in my mouth. Interpretations are for yourself, you can do that for yourself. But once I've given them answers, I've given them. The least you can do is listen to the answers I give.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u41	I'm getting to my last point. If one of the days or weeks in which a decision is taken is taken, in the period of receipt, then I would like to ask the President and the Minister for Foreign Affairs to commit themselves to bringing the committee together as soon as possible after the decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u42	Mr van der Maelen, everyone who was invited from the outset had access to the open and transparent procedure. Furthermore, other elements will also form part of the decision of the Council of Ministers if a decision is taken by the Council of Ministers. I have always said that I want to work with Parliament in maximum transparency. I'm sticking to that, too. I've done that every time. I have done so at the time when I received the audit and internal investigation reports, and I will continue to do so. We need to see to what extent this can be done and whether the organisation of the Chamber's work will be able to do so in an open meeting. For economic reasons, for example, it is often difficult to answer many deeper questions. On the other hand, we can also do this in the committee that the Chamber has specifically set up for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u43	Minister, I do not know if I am misinterpreting it again, but if I sum up, you want to give transparency to the Committee on Army Procurement, which is meeting behind closed doors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u44	Mr van der Maelen, I shall rephrase the report. If you're gonna keep saying that kind of plagiarism around here, go ahead. I say to you that I want to offer maximum transparency and that I am open to any accountability to Parliament. I have merely made the point whether you can imagine that I am bound by a number of agreements made with the bidders, and by a number of practices and legal arrangements relating to public purchases. It is up to the Chamber itself to decide in what form it organises. If you'd like to see me on the defense committee, I'll come to the committee. If the Chamber says that it would like to see me on the Committee on Army Procurement, because it is possible to have access to documents which cannot be seen by the public, then I am prepared to do so. I am in favour of maximum transparency, Mr Van der Maelen, from the beginning to the end. I have not left any questions unanswered; I have come every time I am asked and I will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u45	Madam President, Minister, it is unnecessary, but I shall take up the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure provide that, during the summer recess, a committee, for example the National Defence Commission, may meet only if the President of the Chamber, the chairman of the committee and the Minister agree. That happens to be three members of the N-VA. I'll end up with a positive note. I have established today that you, the Secretary of Defense, have already promised to come to the Defence Committee if there are any new developments. I hope and assume that our committee chair has no objection to that either. In that case, we could realize your commitment to transparency, which you said earlier. That's the positive note I'm gonna end with. Indeed, we may see each other even faster than 1 September 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u46	Mr van der Maelen, I would like to interpret your positive note. I repeat that I have stated that if a decision is taken, I am ready to come to the committee immediately. You make it "in every development" or something like that. I really will not agree to come to the committee and let the MPs come almost to nothing, if it is only to comment on this or that blog about all kinds of supposed statements. I'm very clear. If we are making substantial progress in the matter, I will come to the committee if I am asked to do so. That's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u47	Minister, I am quite convinced of the clarity and transparency of your procedure. The rest is less so. That is where the real malaise lies in this case. I would like to read back to you what the Prime Minister said - it is not a false e-mail but the real report of the commission. He said that everything would be studied, that confidentiality options were on the table: "It is on this subject that a legal point is currently being analysed because we would not like that, because we might have validated confidentiality agreements that would not be properly drafted legally, we could be blamed for legal errors in the RfGP procedure. It is a point that must be meticulously and serenely analysed, to see how much information we can have in relation to the French proposal." That is for the three points raised. And I'm on it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u48	I have clearly asked the French to send me all the information possible and available, signed or not, without having to enter into a negotiation when the project is already launched in a formal procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u49	I hear what you're saying and I don't want to argue because your procedure is clear, but what's next is wrong! The Prime Minister is here to tell us that all options will be explored. But you come with a flat saying that an option may not be able to be studied because there are reasons for confidentiality that may lead us too far from the current procedure and that the French do not give us the information if we do not sign it. In Liège it is called "se tickle to get laughed". We must have the honesty to say that we will not study the French offer because we do not want to commit too much and compromise other things. But then, let the Prime Minister not tell us that all options are being explored when you admit that one of the three options cannot be explored. I do not think you are in bad faith, but we cannot say everything and its opposite, as is the case with committee after committee. I feel like we're playing the watch on this case. As has been said, a political choice must be made. After what we heard two weeks ago, and given the development we have today, I do not feel that the political choice is as impartial as your procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u50	For good reason, the French would have had the opportunity to have all the NDA (Non-Disclosure Agreements) and all the signatures on 7 September, the day of the deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u51	Minister, I agree. There is no need to repeat the whole debate that has taken place over the last few months, even if it was exciting and we have all become specialists in hunting aircraft! Otherwise, we can also go back to the question of why there are only two out of the five candidates who originally came in. Don't start the debate again! What you are saying is true, but as to why only two of the five candidates submitted an offer, the question has also been debated here and we can also question ourselves. Madam President, I would like to conclude on a real positive note, if I may. As this is my last question before the holidays, I would like to thank our colleagues, the minister's staff and the services of the House for the work done throughout the year. I wish everyone a well-deserved rest, even if I am willing to return, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u52	Madam President, Minister, in the joint co-mission for Foreign Relations and Defence, on 4 July, I asked how the three Cs relate, Commitments and Capabilities towards Cash, as was shown in the passage of the US President, Donald Trump, to the NATO summit in Brussels last week. Belgium scores below par in terms of investment in Defence, but scores well in terms of deployment and operations. One of the things our military forces are involved in is the Enhanced Forward Presence of NATO troops in the Balticum. In an interview with Knack, the Belgian chief of staff, General Marc Compernol, made the following remark. I quote: 'The few battalions we have now stationed in the Baltic States will not be able to stop the Russian war machine. Above all, they have a symbolic function: deterrent. It is a kind of warning to Russia: do not get anything in your head, because then you will have to deal with NATO. But our strategic depth in the Baltic States is so small that it will be a huge challenge to get to the ground in time with reinforcements." The general continues: "If Russia suddenly attacks out of nowhere this week, we are in deep trouble." Mr Minister, can you explain what was discussed last week in the framework of the NATO summit on increased military mobility of NATO troops and equipment? What is the state of affairs for Belgium? Are initiatives being taken? If so, which one? Will the government behave differently in the light of the recent meeting between the US President, Donald Trump, and his Russian colleague, Vladimir Putin? Can you explain the Belgian participation in the NATO Enhanced Forward Presence operation? How many troops are we talking about? Is there a turn? How long will our troops be stationed there? How many other NATO troops are there too? Finally, can you give me a response to the statements of the ChoD, General Marc Compernol?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u53	Madam President, Mr Yüksel, that is quite a sandwich. The subject of military mobility is very topical, both within NATO and within the European Union. There are contacts at staff level between the two organisations in order to ensure consistency between the work. At the last NATO summit, the conditions were discussed to move rapidly and effectively reinforcements from North America to Europe and to possible crisis areas at the alliance's borders in case of conflict. This is very important in the context of the Enhanced Forward Presence in the Baltic States and in Poland, where the Allies have only a very limited presence and are therefore very dependent on the rapid development of reinforcement. Specific command and coordination elements, effective procedures and adapted logistics and infrastructure are needed to facilitate the passage of troops. NATO is primarily addressing the EU to take measures to improve military mobility across Europe. The improvement of military mobility in Europe is subject to two conditions. First and foremost, the simplification of customs and border crossing facilities and, second, mobility infrastructures such as roads, ports and airports. Work is under way in the European Union on both aspects. Among other things, the Netherlands is leading a project on military mobility in the framework of permanent structured cooperation, abbreviated PESCO. Belgium is one of the participating countries in this project. As far as the alliance's attitude towards Russia is concerned, it is unchanged. For the answer to the question of whether this government will behave differently in the light of President Trump's meeting with President Putin, I refer to the opinion of the Foreign Minister, who determines the policy in this regard. Specifically about the Enhanced Forward Presence, the following. This NATO activity was approved at the NATO Defence Ministers' meeting on 14-15 June 2016. It was then decided to step up the military deterrent of the Eastern Alliance from 2017 by stationing four robust multinational battlegroups in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. For each battlegroup there is a framework nation, Canada, Germany, Great Britain and the United States respectively. They are in charge of these multinational battlegroups, which are reinforced with contributions from other partners on a rotational basis. The duration of a rotation varies and is determined after an opportunity analysis and in consultation with the strategic partners. As part of the EFP, a total of 4 551 NATO soldiers were deployed in June 2018, from 18 countries of the alliance. In 2018, Belgium will contribute 237 military personnel to this NATO activity. The Belgian main effort is to provide one maneuvering company of 230 soldiers for the German battlegroup in Lithuania from the end of August to the end of December 2018. At the level of the brigade there is also a limited number of soldiers, including in the form of a contribution in the field of strategic communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u54	Minister, tracking and sharing sports performance on social media via the smartphone is popular. In such apps, protecting personal data is important. It becomes worrying when military personnel use these apps in or around strategically sensitive locations such as military bases or embassies and thereby expose their location and other sensitive data. Military bases can be mapped, but it can also be traced who is on what basis or where one trains when one sits at home. After investigative journalists managed to retrieve personal information from military personnel via the Finnish app Polar, the Dutch Ministry of Defence took action. The U.S. military has already taken such measures. Given the incidents and attacks in Belgium and abroad in recent years, you will agree with me that this is very undesirable, Minister. It now appears that there was also access to Belgian user profiles. The American embassy in Brussels, the NATO headquarters in Evere, the Air Base of Kleine Brogel and the nuclear power station of Doel came into focus. Did you know about this problem, Minister? Have you been contacted or informed about this? What's your reaction to this? In the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence decided to restrict such trackers and apps for the time being. Do you plan measures related to such sports apps, specifically, and, more generally, with regard to the use of social media? Can you explain the current rules? Do you think they're sufficient? Do you believe that the sensitisation of military and civilian personnel working in the Defense Department is sufficient? Are there any other rules when military personnel are on mission? Last week there was also a reference to a situation in which Belgian soldiers in Afghanistan were spotted via this app.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u55	Madam President, Mr Yüksel, I am well aware of this problem, which we have already discussed in this committee in connection with the specific Strava app. We have already taken a number of measures at that time. Of course, it is impossible to ignore the hundreds of multinationals and start-ups that offer smart devices and mobile apps whose end-users may or may not turn on or off tracking functionality. It's not just about sports tracking apps, other apps also use the user's localization. A strict ban on the installation of such apps on service phones may be feasible, but a ban on their use on personal phones in military quarters is difficult to enforce and certainly not verifiable. That's why the Department of Defense is focusing on raising awareness of the personnel. The specific media attention for these applications at the time you drew up your question was used to disseminate an internal note for additional awareness raising. Each military is made aware of the general risks, both personal, family and operational security, associated with the use of such devices and applications. Awareness courses and briefings are organized each year and every time they are developed. Last but not least, a new directive is currently being developed within the Defence Department by the various stakeholders in connection with the use of smart devices, including activity trackers, at different locations, i.e. domestic and foreign during operations. The problem you raised and we know will certainly also be addressed in this new directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u56	Madam President, Minister, I have one comment to make. It's a good thing the DOD is dealing with this problem. There are two guidelines, one around sensitisation and another more recent on the use of smartphones in domestic barracks, but also abroad during operations. It should contain clear points about not using apps of this kind, as this would bring out very sensitive information. You will forward that directive to the staff so that they know how to deal with it. I think we need to be very alert and careful about this in order to prevent sensitive information from coming out via apps like this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic953x.u57	In turn, I would like to wish everyone a good vacation. I hope that we will see each other very relaxed again whether it is very soon or in a few months' time.
