ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u1	Madam President, Minister, before this question I think it is important to inform you that the ombudsmen have contacted me several times in the meantime, apparently with the intention of having a certain deterrent effect so that I would not ask this question. The result is that I can do nothing but ask them. Minister, the ruling of the court at the end of May following the proceedings of several Noordrand municipalities led to a number of questions in this committee. It is not clear whether you have already made an assessment of the substance of this ruling. We note, however, that in the meantime the airport Ombudsman is giving interviews to criticise the ruling. Everyone can of course think their own way, but the question is whether it is the Ombudsman's job to give his opinion on this matter, on behalf of the federal government, and what the problems are in terms of the separation of powers. In my opinion, there is a legal framework for the exercise of that task. I have the impression that Mr Tuwai's statements are not appropriate. That leads to a number of questions. What is the Ombudsman's role in legal proceedings? In your opinion, is it the Ombudsman's job to evaluate and assess these procedures? What steps will you take to prevent the Ombudsman from going too far? Do you agree that the statements make your job much more difficult rather than easier? In the meantime, what did you learn from the court's ruling? How will you deal with this? You know that there was a call for the organisation of a State General on 17 September. What is the state of play on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u2	The Royal Decree of 15 March 2002 lays down the tasks entrusted to the ombudsdienst. According to Article 5 of that Royal Decree, these orders include the collection, recording and analysis of all information relevant to the treatment and identification of the cause of the local residents' complaints. The ombudsdienst must carry out its tasks in full independence and is functionally independent. I have no authority over this service. If I had been discouraged by any statement made in the context of this dossier, that would have been the case a long time ago. I have the courage to do everything in my power to deal with this issue in accordance with the right working methods, which was lacking in the past. As I said in this committee, I have always been in favour of a broad consultation of stakeholders. This consultation will therefore be organised but will only be effective on the basis of a content and with steadfast interlocutors. That is why I am waiting, on the one hand, for the first conclusions of phase 1 of the environmental impact study, and, on the other hand, for the renewal of the municipal and provincial councils, to carry out the consultation without the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u3	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. In order to find out the state of play and the appropriate steps to be taken in the context of the court's ruling, we will therefore have to submit a new question. Indeed, the 2002 decision states that there must be independence of the Ombudsman and that he must not be associated with certain local and action committees. However, a number of action committees have the impression that it is not being heard because of a lack of independence. Perhaps that is only a problem of perception, but if that continues, then of course the question is whether the Ombudsman will still be listening to all these complaints in his current position and in the way he is currently handling it. A number of committees that address him feel that this is no longer the case, and then there is a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u4	Minister, RTBF found that at the Midi station, a highly sensitive area had become accessible to all due to the failure of a security portal. This portico leads to the premises where customs, securail and police officers meet. This problem seems to have existed for a few weeks and in the report, the SNCB agents say they have reported it several times to their hierarchy, without there being any reaction on his part. Previously, access to this area was controlled by a Securail agent. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions: how do you explain that it was necessary to wait for a television report to be made available to this area again? Why has access to this area not been controlled as long as repairs begin?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u5	SNCB tells me that it deplores the incident of 21 September and assures me that everything has been put in place to eliminate any risk of intrusion via access filmed by RTBF. SNCB acknowledges that the security of this access was not optimal but specified that the risk was limited as it was impossible to enter the sterile area of the terminal channel via this access. The door to this access has been repaired in the meantime. In addition, SNCB intensified its surveillance by camera in the area as soon as it was made aware of the problem. For this reason, the persons who entered the area were immediately arrested by Sécurail.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u6	I thank the minister for his response.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u7	Madam President, Minister, fifteen projects have just been selected under the first Smart Mobility Call for which a budget of more than four million euros has been released. It seems that a very large number of projects have been introduced, which clearly demonstrates the need to consider mobility solutions differently. Minister, since Belgium is a small country with many neighbours, is it possible to envisage a cross-border standardisation of Smart Mobility initiatives? Is it possible to work with neighbouring governments in this area? It is well known that cross-border mobility, particularly in southern Luxembourg, is increasingly problematic. Have you ever discussed Smart Mobility with your cross-border counterparts? If so, what has emerged from your discussions on this subject? If not, is it possible to consider it? The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg wishes to invest in such tools, opening a door in this area. Are you considering developing travel planning applications – also known as "Mobility as a Service" (MaaS) applications – that would integrate all modes of transport specific to metropolitan or cross-border areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u8	Colleagues, support for initiatives in the field of Smart Mobility is managed at European level through, inter alia, cross-border ITS corridor projects. This type of initiative does not conflict with the stimulation of projects at the local, regional or national level. Especially as they use standardised data whose formats are set at European and global level. The vision shared with neighbouring countries, notably through high-level meetings between European countries on autonomous and connected driving in which Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg take part, is the principle of learning by doing. Also, the current trend is not to standardise Smart Mobility initiatives, but to test, through pilot projects, which are the most effective. As an information provider, SNCB makes available free of charge, in open data, its planned train schedule data in real time to anyone who requests it. With more than 652 members to date and more than 170 contracts signed, it also participates in various Belgian associations - federal, regional and private - to encourage the use of data. These are thus widely shared with third parties outside Belgium. If the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg wishes to invest in this type of tool, as Belgium does with the Smart Mobility Call, it is therefore possible to do so via the open data already available in our country. Finally, concerning the creation of MaaS applications, projects often carried out by the private sector in partnership with public transport operators are being developed at the level of metropolitan areas but I am not aware of a similar specific project for the cross-border area with the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u9	Minister, thank you for this information. I had the opportunity, two weeks ago, to attend a meeting where Luxembourgers discussed the possibility of having contacts with Belgium to conduct a global reflection on cross-border problems. Know that the hand is stretched out!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u10	I would like to congratulate Mrs Goffinet on her first intervention in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u11	Minister, it seems that in recent weeks there has been a resurgence of assaults by train attendants. In any case, some have aroused the emotion and reaction of the attendants, through the "post-it" action that you have been able to observe on social networks. Their difficult situation must be taken into account. They play an essential role in the punctuality of trains, the conviviality of journeys, the safety of commuters and the rest of SNCB staff. So I wanted to take stock with you - you have already done so with other colleagues - of this issue. Minister, in order to be objective, can you tell me how many assaults by train attendants have changed over the last five years? What solutions are envisaged or implemented by SNCB in view of this worrying situation? Should support services not be strengthened at certain times and on certain lines? They believe that evening trips are more problematic and conducive to this type of act. What psychosocial support is provided for abused attendants?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, please refer to the answer to a question concerning the figures given to Mr Van Hees. You will find that the peak of attacks was observed in 2011 with a decrease almost constant until 2016, a rise in 2017 and a slight upturn in the first half of 2018 compared to the first half of 2017. SNCB informs me that it developed, several years ago, an anti-aggression masterplan comprising about 50 measures. This plan involves not only all occupied partners, but also measures at all levels of the security chain (proactive, preventive, reactive, repressive and curative). These measures are discussed in a joint group with the employer and staff representatives. SNCB informs me that it constantly adapts its plan. Recent measures include, for example, the new train departure procedure introduced a few weeks ago, in order to increase safety and limit conflicts with late travellers who tended to enter through the last open door. SNCB has also strengthened the presence of Securail teams and TiCo teams (Ticket Control Teams). An awareness-raising campaign for the general public is planned for mid-November. Soon, the system of administrative fines will be a major instrument in the fight against impunity in public transport. It will allow SNCB to no longer have to go to court for certain offences. It is therefore also an essential element in SNCB's security policy. Train attendants, who are victims of an attack, can benefit from three types of assistance: firstly, accompanying a buddy, i.e. a colleague or a member of the voluntary train support service, trained to receive a victim of a critical incident. This intervention is made immediately after the facts. As a result, the victim's attendant has both emotional and administrative support for the preparation of the required documents, for accompanying the patient to the hospital, to the doctor, to his home, to the police services to help him to file a complaint. The second type of assistance consists of the support of a psychologist from the company POBOS with which SNCB concluded a contract this year. Contact with the psychologist takes place within 24 hours of the occurrence. The third type of assistance consists of accompanying it by a psychologist at the CPS, an in-house service at the SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u13	Minister, I take note of all this information and the slight increase in the number of attacks in the first half of 2018. You have cited the case of travellers who arrive late on the dock, but I do not have the impression that they represent the majority of the problems of aggression towards train attendants. I think that their main concern is that the most problematic routes should be taken into account in terms of timetables or lines. In the context of the answers that you have given and which seem to me to be valid, I have not heard an answer in the sense of accompaniment, perhaps a doubling of the presence of train controllers and attendants on certain lines and at certain hours. In my view, being alone in charge of monitoring can be problematic and maintaining a human presence and accompanying service on all trains must be a priority in order to preserve a quality rail service.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u14	Madam President, Minister, I will first address the context and continue with the three themes. As has just been mentioned, going to or from the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has become a real hell for a few years, but even more so since the start of work on the E411-E25 rehabilitation project between Arlon and Sterpenich. This work is necessary and welcome to improve traffic to and from Luxembourg in the long term, but traffic jams have become the daily lot of users of this route. Some try to find escape routes by using secondary roads, causing problems in villages, especially for children on their way to school or on their way to nearby towns. Some have decided to turn to the train. However, the rail traffic between Arlon and Luxembourg was totally suspended for two months, the trains being replaced by buses, the time to make voltage changes on the Grand-Ducal network. The resumption of traffic was not easy on 17 September. However, work on E411 had been delayed. Since then, train traffic has been interrupted on numerous occasions, with some trains being completely abolished, even during the weekend. Technical incidents involving the transition from 3,000 volts to 25,000 volts were reported, as well as the failure of heating and door closures. The old equipment used in the case of troubleshooting should have been used pending the arrival of the new M7 trainsets adapted to the 25,000 volts. Faced with this problematic situation on the E411, the Walloon Minister of Public Works announced that he had written to you requesting that SNCB set up additional trains during the duration of the construction site. The implementation of the Viville Park & Ride project to reduce road traffic is very close, since the municipal development plan known as "Stockem-Viville", as proposed by the City of Arlon in collaboration with SNCB, was approved by the Minister on July 26, 2018. This project seems to be a real solution, as Luxembourg Minister François Bausch has made clear recently. It asks SNCB to expedite this matter and states that the Grand Duchy is prepared to extend trains to Viville-Stockem. It also states that CFLs (the Luxembourg Railways) are willing to invest there. Minister, is SNCB really going to put in place additional trains for the duration of the E411-E25 site? How did you respond to the Walloon Minister of Public Works? What other measures could SNCB put in place to reduce road traffic? What is the official status of negotiations with the Luxembourg government on the Park & Ride project in Viville-Stockem? What are the elements that block or could block this project, and what solutions could be provided? Why have many trains been suspended in recent days between Arlon and Luxembourg? When will the M7 trainsets adapted to the 25,000 volts be put into circulation? Faced with this chaos, travellers are obviously angry. I was able to read in the press that SNCB's top management would go to several stations (Arlon, Libramont and Jemelle) to listen to staff members. Have these meetings taken place? What was the content of the exchanges? What improvements have been proposed? Are further interviews planned? Finally, another problem is added to the existing ones since several commuters told me that, on the "belgianrail" site, it was difficult to have the right information at all times. In fact, sometimes on this site, it was indicated that there was no disturbance on the Belgian network, no train deleted, no delay. However, on CFL.lu's website, it was quite different. As a result, the passengers were completely disturbed. This joins my previous question on the issue of cross-border Smart Mobility. Are you aware of these facts? Do you confirm them? What can be done to overcome these discrepancies in information on this train line?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u15	Madam President, Minister, it is not nothing to be the minister responsible for such difficult organizations as SNCB and Infrabel! Don't take my questions for incriminations! The least we can say is that the current situation of rail mobility between Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg is catastrophic – as my colleague has just pointed out – for both users and staff, for the image of SNCB and cross-border cooperation. We are clearly faced with a lack of coordination and foresight since electrification work in the Grand Duchy was long planned, but also a lack of correct information for travellers during the "crisis". Mr Minister, can you tell us what are the bodies for consultation and coordination relating to the technical level at work between the Belgian and Grand-Ducal railway companies? What are their operating procedures? Do you consider them to be working properly? What improvements can you propose to both SNCB and CFLs, so that the current situation cannot be repeated? Secondly, I asked the CFL's Director General, Marc Wengler, for clear explanations of the reasons for the chaos experienced, in particular, on Monday, 17 September. He answered me in detail on the 20th of the same month. I have already given you his answer and I will not go back here. In his management report of 15 October, on the other hand, addressed to the Board of Directors, he states that: "On the SNCB side, there are mainly technical problems in handling SNCB drivers in various situations (manipulations imposed by the new voltage change at the border, head change, start-up, etc.). and, on the other hand, a lack of equipment. While the first cause can only improve, notably through training, habits and reminders of procedures, the lack of equipment remains a more structural problem." In his reply, Mr Wengler therefore made it clear that SNCB drivers needed to be accompanied and trained. Minister, are we also aware of this pressing need on this side of the border, particularly in the head of operators? What is envisaged in practice to respond to them in a short period of time?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me that the current frequency and occupancy of trains between Arlon and Luxembourg does not justify the introduction of additional trains. I will provide you with all the details that are useful in this regard. SNCB's supply between Arlon and Luxembourg is already significant, especially during peak hours. In fact, on weekdays, between 6 a.m. and 9 a.m., twelve trains depart from Arlon to Luxembourg. SNCB states that in the context of the modernisation of line 162 and the Arlon railway station, it does not intend to increase the supply between these two cities in the short term. Other rail links also exist between the province of Luxembourg and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, notably to Rodange from Athus and Virton, and via Gouvy, which are much less frequented. According to SNCB, the abolitions of trains between Arlon and Luxembourg – indeed quite numerous before an improvement of this situation since last Thursday – are mainly justified by two reasons. First of all, damage to the equipment. Since 17 September, some of the trains IC Brussels-Luxembourg have been provided with equipment authorised to operate to Luxembourg, namely the only T13 locomotives and international cars of type I6, I10 and I11. The old suitable equipment was therefore recalled, towed by the only locomotives still able to travel to the Grand Duchy, the M6 and AM 96 being unable to do so. Since the availability of this equipment was limited, it was impossible to provide the entire IC service with it. Previously, this liaison was with AM 96s, but these are not compatible with the new catenary tension in Upper Luxembourg. SNCB explained that it had experienced many of the damage that caused train deletions. Since the beginning of October, as a result of targeted actions, performance has improved significantly, especially in the last 15 days. Removals due to damage to rolling stock have decreased sharply. SNCB officials went to stations in Jemelle, Libramont and Arlon, I believe, last Thursday. As soon as the GSM-R is put into service on the Grand-Ducal network, scheduled for December 2018, an M6 car train will also run to Luxembourg. By the end of 2019, the T13 locomotives will be equipped with ETCS so that they can continue to operate until Luxembourg. The other ICs are provided by M6 and AM 96 equipment and are limited to Arlon. An Arlon-Luxembourg connection service is provided by Dosto equipment or SNCB trainsets. This situation will continue until the approval and entry into service of M7 cars on the Brussels-Luxembourg axis. The second reason for the abolition, for trains coming from Brussels, relates to the fact that Infrabel is currently carrying out work on this line, in particular between Lavaux and Habay, with a single-track service of more than 15 km. This single-track approach is binding and partly explains the punctuality problems on this axis. Since October 8, the addition of a few minutes in the journey times has led to a slight improvement in punctuality. In addition, since Friday, 19 October, the distance from the construction slowdown notice (ART) has been reduced from 7 to 1 km, which has had the direct effect of increasing the punctuality and reliability of the line. SNCB has since observed a punctuality of more than 80% on line 162. The SNCB drivers at the Arlon depot have also recently been driving CFL Dosto equipment. On the one hand, this equipment seems to present some reliability problems. On the other hand, SNCB drivers lack experience especially in the troubleshooting of this Luxembourg equipment. With the help of the CFLs, the SNCB will clarify various points concerning the use of this material vis-à-vis its drivers. The possibility for Belgian drivers to contact a Luxembourg hardware hotline in case of need is also envisaged, but does not yet exist. With regard to the M7 equipment, SNCB informs me that the M7 trainsets adapted to the 25,000 volts will be put into circulation at the earliest in 2022. As for the certification of AM 08 Desiro, Siemens was responsible for the certification of AM 08 on the Grand-Ducal network. The schedule is scheduled for registration in the third quarter of 2019. As regards the two car parks in Arlon, they are, in fact, saturated following the success of the free restoration in the SNCB car parks of the border area in order to promote the use of the train by the borderers, but also the disappearance of the border effect tariff. A 160-seat extension has already been carried out by SNCB, but this was not enough. This is why an agreement was reached between SNCB, the city authorities and the province of Luxembourg for the regulated use of the Maison de la culture car park located a few hundred metres from the station by SNCB commuters. Since Monday, this use is effective. Apart from a reflection on the work, the implementation of a Park & Ride is the subject of a discussion as part of the follow-up to the letter of intent I signed with my Luxembourg counterpart, Mr Bausch. This solution only makes sense if the railway undertakings have the technical capacity (25 000 volts and one ETCS) to implement a sufficient supply. In this connection, contacts between Belgium and the Grand-Dchy of Luxembourg for mobility problems have existed for decades. The Gaichel meetings are joint meetings of the Belgian and Luxembourg governments. They are often prepared by Belgian-Luxembourg administrative commissions. This committee is the permanent body of the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union, which ensures cooperation between the two administrations. It follows the economic situation of the Belgian-Luxembourg Union, cooperation in international relations and bilateral issues. It cannot be extended to the practical details of each specific theme. Therefore, as I have just indicated, I signed a letter of intent with my colleague Mr François Bausch a little less than a year ago on the strengthening of rail cooperation between the two countries. In practical terms, in this framework, two working groups are set up - one dealing with the aspects of rail safety and the other involving the administrations, infrastructure managers and railway undertakings of the two countries. The purpose of these meetings is to assess the status of each file and the issues to be resolved. The working group met twice on 19 February and 6 June. A third meeting is scheduled for 21 November in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Among the topics discussed will be the question of the consequences of a choice by the Luxembourg Parliament to move ETCS equipment on its network by more than 18 months following the Bettembourg accident. However, the network management companies, rolling stock managers and the companies that have to transplant ETCS into rolling stock and infrastructure have not, to date, been able to reduce their deadline for implementation by 18 months, as this is almost impossible. It is a political choice that has not been prepared by a technical choice. We will therefore be confronted with a problem which goes beyond the problem of tension: that of the implementation of the accompanying measures necessary for the transplantation of the generalised ETCS in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. This will be in addition to the difficulties already known from the other country's equipment approvals in our respective countries. The working group has work to do and the pace of its meetings will need to be speeded up. With regard to passenger information, SNCB states that it is responsible for information on Belgian territory and CFLs on Luxembourg networks, in accordance with the principle of territoriality. SNCB is aware that the information currently available on the two route planners is not always consistent. This is why a short-term initiative is planned both within the SNCB and in a targeted way among CFL staff to examine how the flow of information can be improved so that travellers receive the same correct information via all channels across the border. SNCB adds that the CFLs have informed it that they will soon begin to exchange in real time with a number of European partners, including SNCB, information on network disruptions and delays, as we have been doing for some time with the open data on the Belgian side. CFLs already have access to our data but we do not have access to theirs. The open data will be opened in the Grand Duchy. This technological innovation will certainly contribute to improving the quality of hourly information across the border.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u17	Minister, this is a complicated matter, especially when there are different levels of power and legislation. This is a real problem and a source of anxiety for all cross-border workers. I understand that SNCB does not intend to increase frequencies from Arlon since this is not necessary. It's somewhere the snake bites its tail because you don't come on the train because it's late or you're not sure you have it. It's already a stress. Stress is also related to the fact that there is no parking space for the car. And again, you have to get to the train station from the highway. The road is completely blocked, from Habay to the border post. It is even impossible to use Exit 31 to reach Arlon and head to the station. I think there is an opportunity to work quickly and resume discussions with Luxembourg, especially since the government is not going to change. We need to set up Stockem Park & Ride and have trains starting from Stockem rather than the Arlon hyper-centre. Indeed, SNCB has land available to install a parking lot, even without making any adjustments. I will follow this file carefully. You have a lot of work to do in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u18	Minister, you are not responsible for this, but obviously there was a way to do better in this case. I'll meet with the CFL president on November 5. It will be an opportunity to go around the issue with him again to discuss a whole series of aspects and try to make sure that it doesn't happen again. It is true that the main concern is the approval of rolling stock. This will obviously make the situation worse. You know, as I do, that politics is the art of the possible, so I hope that with your colleague Bausch, who will be renewed in his office, you will be able to move forward with the mechanics of this really catastrophic issue. Let us remember that the Grand Duchy is the largest employer in the province of Luxembourg. We really need to fix this line.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u19	Minister, I no longer count the number of times I have questioned you about the cleanliness of the railways at the station in Tournai. As a reminder, the cleaning of tracks at the station is the responsibility of the SNCB, but can only be done at the moment in the presence of Infrabel agents who ensure the safety of the operation. So, minister, let me ask you what is the status of the bill to allow the SNCB to clean the tracks without the help of Infrabel, which would save a significant amount of time? In addition, it is now possible for SNCB to directly detect and punish certain incivious facts. This includes defilement, destruction or damage in any way to railway infrastructure or to railway vehicles. Could you tell me how many observations have been made for the dumping of waste on the railways in the country? What kind of fine would the wrongdoer face?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u20	Dear colleague, following the 2013 reform of the structures of the railway group, the problem of cleaning the railways, also known as "tracking", has been launched. As I informed you in a previous question, this subject has already been the subject of several proposals by the SPF to entrust to one or the other of the two companies the task of cleaning the tracks at unguarded stations and stop points, excluding weeds – this is already settled, the latter being the responsibility of Infrabel. At this stage, no agreement could be reached between the SPF and the two companies. Work to find a balanced and proportionate solution to the means, rights and obligations of both entities must therefore continue. Furthermore, the Railway Police Act of 27 April 2018 will allow SNCB to impose an administrative fine on persons abandoning waste on the track. I cannot yet tell you the number of observations made, because this law will only come into force on 1 November. A fine of EUR 300 could be imposed if the prosecutor does not wish to prosecute the person criminally. The legislator considered this type of incivility to be a category 4 offence, most severely sanctioned. But whether it is a criminal or an administrative offence, the problem will always be linked to the evidence of the offence, as perpetrators are rarely caught in flagrante delicto. It is not enough to say that Infrabel must do this or SNCB, that. Behind all this, there is the whole system of staff protection, of staff protection license, of who does what, of the responsibility between the walls of docks (today, it is the responsibility of Infrabel). Behind the scenes, there is an armada of arrangements to be made in terms of authorisation, licences, approval by the safety authority which, independently, must analyse whether all safety-related elements are guaranteed for persons involved in the lanes. At this level, the solution could not yet be reached between the SPF and the two companies, in particular because, in the presence of operators external to SNCB who also act along the tracks, there is another difficulty, namely who, from SNCB, Infrabel or the other operator, will have to intervene. Today, therefore, the balance solution has not yet been found with all jurisdictions in compliance with railway rules and licences.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u21	Minister, you have no doubt that your answer does not convince me. I don't blame you personally. Of course, this is a legal imbroglio which it is quite difficult to resolve. However, I really feel that there is only one thing missing to solve the problem, and since we are in Belgium, the country of surrealism, this is common sense. When you try to explain that it is not possible to pick up a can that drags on the tracks without eventually finding a whole series of other waste, I have the impression that with every problem, one never brings a solution but five problems. This phenomenon is truly staggering and tiring and gives a bad image, an image linked to insecurity, because it is the feeling that the dirt inspires. As for ignoring the number of people who have been caught in default, I also think that common sense should be shown. It may be possible to join the municipalities which already apply a whole series of administrative fines. More and more docks are equipped with cameras. Therefore, telling me that you can't find the person who throws that kind of crap is, in my opinion, an excuse. I assure you that I don't blame you and I'm not threatening to make you a little song either, but if we could find a common sense solution everywhere, it would really be a good thing, and I don't despair that we can find one.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u22	The central problem is the safety of people coming down the tracks. Remember that Infrabel was instructed to weed, because the train has to pass, etc. In the sense of the Railway Safety and Interoperability Service (CISCF), today, SNCB personnel are not allowed to descend on track. This means that security measures must be shared between Infrabel and SNCB staff. Today, they are discussing the status of the person who will protect the person who is on the way. People's common sense wants us to pick up the can. But the risk of accidents must also be prevented: possibly changing the orientation of trains in the tracks or working at night when there is no traffic. In this respect, there is no simple solution. The problem may be simple, but the solution is not. But this must be done, because the condition of the tracks in some stations is unacceptable. So we gave instructions saying, "You must find a solution within a reasonable time."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u23	Mr.Minister, I remain convinced that this can be done by running his meninges a little bit and simply by showing common sense. On Tournai, for example, there are five access routes. "It's enough, there's only"... are expressions that, usually, I don't like to hear. It is necessary to ensure that, for two hours, there are no trains running on these tracks. All you have to do is divert them to track 5 instead of track 1. It must be easy. Indeed, when I take the train to the Central Station, I hear, every ten minutes, that there is a change of track. There must be, in my opinion, a way to do it. It is good will and common sense that are lacking in this matter. Minister, I'm not accusing you, because I know it's not easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Mr.Minister, on February 16, 2017, the newspaper L的Echo devoted a detailed article to malfunctions and irregularities within the CPS (Corporate Prevention Services, the Prevention and Protection Service) of the SNCB, which is responsible for medical examinations of railway personnel and issues certificates to railway safety personnel. These malfunctions highlighted, in addition to a violation of the medical secrecy of the agents, truncated figures in terms of reports, data on the number of SNCB agents capable or unfit for work, as well as ineffective computer software. A significant turnover of physicians in the CPS is also noted, which hardly contributes to the reliability of the service. Without prejudging the importance of the SPC within the SNCB structure, however, it appears that it must be able to be efficient and efficient because it has a key role to play in ensuring upstream safety. As a result, Minister: what is the current status of the service? Has an investigation been conducted by you since then? If so, what are the conclusions to be drawn? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u25	Dear colleague, HR Rail informs me that the CPS is approved as an external service for the prevention and protection of work by the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation (ETCS). CPS is recognized as a sui generis entity within HR Rail. As an external service, CPS complies with all the legislation applicable to external services for the prevention and protection of work, i.e., which is reflected in the Code of Welfare. Any external prevention service is required to introduce a new accreditation file with the ETCS FPS every five years. In accordance with the legislation, a new file for the extension of the licence was filed at the end of 2016. In this context, on 3 May 2017, the Controller carried out an audit which led to the renewal of the approval at the end of the year until the end of 2022 by ministerial order of 19 January. As an external service, CPS must also have an ISO 9001 certification, the quality label of which it holds. An external office conducts an annual audit. In early September 2016, in addition to a monitoring audit, Vinçotte SA also conducted an audit of the transition to a new version of ISO 9001:2015. During this audit, the new GDPR regulations were also evaluated. This audit went well. HR Rail added that the medical department of CPS must also be approved by the Communities. In accordance with the legislation, a new dossier for the extension of the authorisation was introduced last May. After submitting the three files on September 3, CPS recently received confirmation of its approval until the end of 2023. In addition, CPS is also licensed as a psychomedical centre by the Mobility FPS. It issues the necessary medical and psychological certificates. Under the Railway Code, CPS is subject to an annual audit carried out by SSICF (Railway Safety and Interoperability Service). Here too, it is checked whether CPS works in accordance with the legislation. Comments were made for improvement. The last audit on this subject was carried out on 7 June and was also carried out successfully. The organisation, operation and financial resources of CPS are monitored not only by the above-mentioned independent external bodies, but also by the internal opinion committee of CPS. In this body of legal consultation, which meets every three months, there are not only representatives of employers and workers, but also a representative of the ETCS SPF. With regard to the turnover of occupational physicians, CPS refers to the statistics of the asbl COPREV, which reveals their shortage at the national level. The result is very close competition. CPS also refers to the age distribution by which it finds the retirement of a large number of doctors. That's what I could tell you, Mrs. Caprasse.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u26	Minister, everything seems to be in the best of the worlds when you describe all the audits etc. However, when I read the substance of the problem, there were reports of irregularities. Some people have even been dismissed. I think there's some kind of cover around all of this to make it look like everything's okay, but basically there are real problems that undermine the safety of workers. I think I'll come back to the problem later. I will be attentive to what is being said or in the press or in some echoes of the environment itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u27	Joined Questions Nos 27111 and 27169 as well as Question No 27168 by Mr Raskin, Question No 27136 by Mrs De Coninck, Question No 27219 by Mr Hellings and Question No 27273 by Mr Flahaux are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u28	Mr Minister, last week we held a topical debate on the use of bicycles on trains. I heard your answers. What is the status of the situation? Have there been any other developments in the meantime?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u29	Madam President, Minister, I know that the subject was raised last Thursday during Question Time, but I would like to place it in a slightly broader context. You replied that you were going to contact SNCB to see what problems there were. Have you received an answer to this? What are the problems for SNCB? What were their reasons for reaching a general ban? Will SNCB change its position in the light of the reply you gave, but also in the light of the reactions from the various political parties to it? In the past it was stated that by 2025 there will be fifty thousand bicycle sheds more. There would be substantial investment, including in sub-systems. On the other hand, we see that this is being phased out. Some of the sub-system has moved to De Lijn, but are any initiatives planned? There are now only sixty places where there are Blue-bikes at stations. Are there no initiatives aimed at achieving networked mobility at SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u30	Of course, I agree with the questions that were asked last Thursday and which are now being asked again. I was also rather remodelled by the announcement by SNCB that a ban would simply be introduced on taking the bike on the train during rush hour. I understand that this is not obvious: during rush hour it can be quite busy in the main stations. Getting on and off the train must be a priority. At that time that is not so obvious, but it must be possible that someone wants to bring a bike. We are also asking questions about SNCB's cycling policy. A number of years ago, we adopted a resolution in the Chamber with a number of clear ambitions to give the train-cycle combination more opportunities and growth opportunities. In the Netherlands, 200,000 additional users of a public transport bike have been added in one year. SNCB seems to be losing opportunities in terms of the combination of bike and train compared to this increase. There are ambitions, but for the time being it is regrettable that most attention is paid to the negative signals. In my questions, I have asked for a number of figures in order to be able to assess the problem. I do not think that many train passengers feel that there are so many people who want to get on the train by bike during rush hour. Minister, how many bicycles are we talking about? How many bike bills were sold? Is it possible to split it up according to peak and valley hours? I would like to get to know the problem and to be able to objectify the question put by SNCB, which seems to be there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u31	It is clear that the decision to refuse non-foldable bicycles in rush hours has aroused the anger and misunderstanding of users and many elected officials who see them as a risky initiative in counter-sense of ever more active deployment of intermodality. Nor did the appropriate minister fail to react dryly. He stated that he did not share either the strategy or the method, requiring in-depth line-by-line analysis. It is the responsibility of SNCB to formulate proposals where difficulties will be identified. This announcement is all the more inopportune as the long-awaited arrival of the SNCB's new management contract is emerging six years after the expiry of the last contract. Therefore, can the Minister inform me of the objectives he intends to set in the future management contract for SNCB in terms of intermodality and the hierarchy of his priorities in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, over the last two years, I have continuously deployed energy to promote the development of each link in the mobility chain and, in particular, to strengthen the interfaces between modes of travel, particularly between private and public modes. The case of bicycles is illustrative because the government has approved the SNCB investment plan, which focuses on the reception of bicycles at the station, with an increase in parking spaces for bicycles that is in line with the target of 50,000 additional places for bicycles by 2025. The investment plan also provides for the acquisition of new M7 trainsets, which, like Désiero and M6, will have multifunctional compartments in which it is easier to carry your bike. With regard to the policy of bicycles on board trains, I do not share the proposed strategy for peak hours aimed at generalizing the ban on conventional bicycles on all trains, nor the method of achieving it – the SNCB having stated that the proposed measure did not concern folding bicycles. SNCB informs me that it has received the various reactions to its proposal not to carry ordinary bicycles on trains. SNCB also lets me know that since April 2018, she has consulted her usual stakeholders. As you learned from my speech in plenary, before taking a decision, I instructed SNCB to document the problems it faces, to carry out a detailed line-by-line analysis, to propose possible measures where difficulties exist, and to consult the associations of bicycle and shuttle users. Only after these four steps can a strategy be defined, communicated and implemented. SNCB has informed me that she is currently preparing her answers. It is therefore premature to answer your specific questions in detail now. In any case, I will not accept that a general solution applied to all trains in peak hours and on all lines be put in place if problems arise only in some high-speed trains with a high occupancy rate. SNCB sold its majority share of 51,83 % in Blue Mobility, the company behind the Blue-bike bicycle system, to De Lijn. In the context of the sale of SNCB's share in Blue Mobility, the operator of Blue-bike, a cooperation agreement with clear commitments is foreseen. SNCB is committed to providing more than 3 700 Blue Bikes parking spaces in the coming years. There is currently room for 1 300 Blue bikes in the stations and bicycle parkings. Notwithstanding the sale of this participation, SNCB continues to place significant emphasis on cycling as part of intermodality, notably through an extension of the number of bicycle pitches (an increase of 50%, or 50,000 new places by 2025), better infrastructure, including comfort and access control, collaboration with municipalities and the possibility of storing more expensive bicycles such as electric bicycles. Of course, SNCB systematically gives priority to passenger bicycles, but as part of an extension of the pitches, shared bicycles will also be taken into account, for example. For the management and maintenance of bicycles, SNCB relies primarily on partnerships through cooperation agreements with specialised partners such as cycling points and Blue Mobility. For example, in the case of Blue-bike, the cycling sites will continue to exist at the stations and Blue Mobility can continue to develop the network in the domain of SNCB, where there is space. So far, SNCB has not received an application from another actor in the bicycle part system. SNCB is particularly in favour of the provision of so-called intermodal solutions for rail passengers. The combination of train traffic with shared bikes, buses, subways, trams or shared cars, for what is known as the first and the last mile, meets a clear wish of the customers I want to wear.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u33	Mr Minister, what is surprising in this story is that this information is being disclosed in this way when the SNCB itself is not in a position to give us today all the elements and information that would lead to such a decision. I must confess that your answer leaves me pantoise.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u34	You've got to get over it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u35	This isn't the first or last time this happens, it's gonna be okay! We're not to a surprise! Anyway, after the next episodes! But you will have understood that for us and for all the Members who have spoken on this point, this is a decision – especially given the way it was taken – that is not acceptable if we are to continue to make progress in the development of inter- and multi-modality and respond to environmental issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Last week, I thought I didn't see so many people getting off in the morning on a regular bike at the Brussels-Central railway station. That's illegal, too. However, I have not seen this in other busy stations either. Also in Heist-op-den-Berg I rarely see people with a heavily loaded bicycle getting on the train. A folding bike is more common, because its users go to places that are not accessible, for example due to a lack of bikes. That is why I did not understand correctly that such a ban last week was the most pertinent question for SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and also for your response to SNCB. After all, it is important for politics or policy to make it clear that we need to use the combination of train and bicycle. It is therefore particularly regrettable that since we adopted the resolution here in the Chamber, there have been two major incidents: firstly, the rejection of Blue-bike, where it was suggested that room was given to other bicycle part systems and that Blue-bike would still be given full space and, secondly, the ban on bicycles on the train. These are two negative signals, while everything should be put on everything to continue to encourage and support the combination of train-bikes. I am also looking forward to the drafts of the management agreement. After all, it is important to include certain objectives relating to the combination of train and bicycle. I assume, therefore, that we will receive news about this in one of the weeks to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u38	Minister, I will go along the same lines as my colleagues. We want concrete solutions to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u39	Madam Chair, Minister, until June 30, the auto-schools issued a certificate to candidates who had taken at least 20 hours of driving lessons. This certificate gave access to the provisional permit to drive alone. Since 1 July, the certificate has been replaced in Wallonia by the mandatory passing of the test of technical driving abilities in an examination centre independent of the car school. The test costs 60 euros, compared to 36 for the usual practical examination. Contrary to the previous situation, candidates in the free stream can present it if they have driven three months with a guide. While the conditions for driving training depend on the Regions, licensing remains a federal jurisdiction because it is an internationally recognized document. However, it seems that your department did not send the circular validating the test to the communes, which prevents those communes from actually issuing the certificate. Minister, can you confirm this information? What solutions are envisaged to enable Walloon municipalities to issue this certificate and according to what timetable?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u40	Madam President, dear colleague, the Walloon Region has changed the system with regard to it by the decrees of 20 July 2017 and 24 May 2018. In this reform, the Walloon Region has made two major changes that have an impact on the issuance of the interim M18 driving licence without a guide. First, the certificate of fitness issued by the driving schools is now issued by the examination centres. Second, the certificate can be issued to candidates who have not attended 20 hours of driving school. The federal regulations governing the issuance of provisional driving licences M18 require, inter alia, that 20 hours of training be taken and that the applicant submit a certificate of fitness issued by an approved driving school. The problem arises when these two federal conditions are no longer met as part of the reform. The first is not completed by candidates who pass the test after three months of probation and who have not completed the 20 hours of training. The second is not completed by any candidate since in the Walloon Region, only the examination centres can now issue this certificate of fitness. Upon becoming aware of this reform in September 2017, the Mobility and Transport FPS prepared a royal amending decree to solve this problem, which was expected on 1 January 2018, but for which the Region had already mentioned an implicit postponement to 1 July of this aspect of its reform. In concrete terms, the Walloon Region wanted to do something and, as it is a federal jurisdiction, I acted in a royal order at the request of the Walloon Region. The Regions were consulted. In December 2017, the Flemish Region submitted a negative opinion challenging federal jurisdiction. As you are aware, such an opinion triggers the specific procedure which requires the consultation committee. The Walloon Region delivered its positive opinion on 9 April 2018. As a result, the text was presented to the next consultation committee, which met on 30 May 2018. Although the Walloon Region learned that the text had not obtained the agreement of the Flemish Region and that the procedure had been initiated, it published its decree on 24 May - i.e. before the consultation committee - with a communication in the press indicating that the reform would enter into force on 1 July 2018. At the consultation committee, it was decided to seek the opinion of the Council of State and, following that opinion, to discuss the project as an inter-federal group. In the absence of agreement, the consultation committee would be responsible. The text was the subject of a notice from the Council of State, received on August 8, 2018, which fully confirms federal jurisdiction. As a result, the Walloon Region made a proposal to amend the draft royal decree. Since the Flemish Region – despite the opinion of the Council of State and the amendment proposed by Wallonia – opposes the draft royal decree, it was necessary to refer the text to the concertation committee, in accordance with the decision taken by the latter. The text will therefore be referred to the committee on 7 November. Until it is published, the regulations require the competent authorities to refuse the validity of certificates of fitness issued by the Walloon examination centres since there is still no royal decree. The communication sent by the SPF Mobility and Transport to the municipalities facing this problem since 1 July 2018 aims to remind them of the Belgian rule in force. The solution has therefore already been under development since September 2017. I have demonstrated my goodwill in responding to the requests addressed to me. But to meet with opposition from the Flemish Region, I cannot assume that the outcome of the debate in the concertation committee, in which all the parties are represented, will be the outcome. If the November 2018 committee accepts the text as it stands, it may be submitted to the King for signature and published immediately. In the meantime, it would have been more prudent for the Walloon Region not to implement the problematic aspect of its reform and not to communicate about it until the known obstacles of all were removed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u41	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for this comprehensive response that sheds light on the various issues on this issue. I have only a small supplementary question to ask you, Minister: what will happen in the absence of agreement on the text?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u42	I hope that everyone will respect the decisions of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u43	So the federal government can't move forward if there's no agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u44	It was agreed that whatever the opinion of the Council of State, it should go back to the concertation committee. The Regions will then be able to make their views known. For my part, I would like to state that the Council of State has won the case to recognize federal jurisdiction. As a result, I hope that the Regions will explain to each other. I can only see that. And, in my opinion, this is not the first time or the last!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u46	Madam Chair, Minister, in an interview in the press, SNCB's Director General Transport explained that 445 double-storey cars had been ordered in 2015. We are almost at the end of 2018 and still nothing. This equipment would be in the testing and certification phase and the firm would have announced a six-month delay. When will these 445 double-storey cars be put into service? How to explain the delay of this order? On which lines will these cars be distributed? Why will these cars be used on the line between Arlon and Luxembourg only in 2022? What will be the benefits of these cars once they are put into service?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u47	Dear colleague, the SNCB informs me that these 445 double-deck cars will gradually be put into service in May-June 2019, in preseries with four cars of each type; then, in September 2019, with about ten cars delivered each month. In September 2018, the Bombardier-Alstom consortium informed SNCB that the preseries commercial service of a minimum duration of two months would only take place in May-June 2019 instead of December 2018. This implies a delay of six months. Manufacturers also indicated that series production itself would also start with a delay of six months. This implies a monthly delivery of about ten cars from September 2019, at the earliest. SNCB advises that it is currently discussing its action plan with manufacturers on the various problems it faces and offers assistance where necessary. SNCB assures me that it is following the situation closely and is trying to minimize the potential impact on travellers. SNCB states that new M7 cars will be distributed mainly on IC lines that cross the junction and have high occupancy. The use of M7 cars between Arlon and Luxembourg will not be possible until 2022 since the block trains will run on this line. The four types of cars will be approved simultaneously. In view of the latest indicative planning provided by the manufacturers, SNCB expects the approval in Belgium of the last mixed type B at the earliest in 2021. Why 2022? There will first be Belgian certification followed by that in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg in 2022 at the earliest, after which SNCB will be able to put its cars into service on the line to Luxembourg. In concrete terms, the first step is that of certification in Belgium. Once acquired, the approval shall be deposited in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Once the latter has been acquired, it is necessary to wait another six months for the first cars to be put into service - a legal provision. The new M7 double-storey cars will provide more comfort for travellers thanks to a new modern design with indirect ceiling lighting, creating a pleasant atmosphere; thanks to a new passenger information system with four colour screens on each floor; and thanks to a screen with a quality finish at each platform, both in the first class and second, while ensuring sufficient differentiation between the first and second. In addition, cars will comply with the latest EU directives on persons with reduced mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u48	Minister, thank you for these answers. I hope that, in the order form, there will be late delivery fines and that the company in question will pay well. We can certainly try to reduce the impact on travellers, but we could have saved six months. I understand that there are legal deadlines in terms of cross-border licensing, but I hope that they can be kept to a minimum without wasting too much time on users. Finally, I hope that all these new vehicles will incorporate the "velo" dimension.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u49	The ICN (Institute of National Accounts) decided that Infrabel's debt would be consolidated with that of the State. The press explains that this is the result of a royal decree passed by yourself under which the royalty paid to Infrabel by the users of the network was capped and thus became fixed whereas previously it was conditioned by the use by the operators of the network of Infrabel. Since it is no longer a question of own revenue but of an indirect form of allocation, this has therefore led to the consolidation of Infrabel within the Federal State. I therefore have several questions to ask you on this subject and the consequences of this decision. Do you confirm that Infrabel's debt is taken into account in the public debt of 2 billion? This is the case. Is Infrabel's decision to consolidate irreversible? Have you followed the discussions between Eurostat and ICN? Has the impact on public debt been taken into account in Belgium's draft budget plan, most recently sent to the European Commission? Have you been able to measure the impact of your Royal Order on the public debt of Infrabel? Have you been aware of Opinion 16/03 of the Advisory Committee for Railway Travellers, which prevented the risk of consolidating this debt? If you knew about it, why didn't you follow him? Did your colleagues the Finance and Budget Ministers approve this royal order or have they made any remarks? What are the implications of this decision for Infrabel's financial management of its cash flow, borrowing capacity, asset management, investments? How will you react to this decision of the NIC? Is it possible to change the recalculation of the user charge or is it possible to continue to follow the notice and put this debt of Infrabel in the accounts of the State? As we know, Infrabel is under severe financial pressure and is carrying out maintenance carry-overs to the point where it is no longer possible to operate all the lines of the network by 2021 without substantial refinancing. What solution do you therefore recommend to ensure the future financing of SNCB and infrabel and the continuation of the operation of all railway lines? Finally, is SNCB's debt also likely to be consolidated with the state's debt? If so, what would be the impact?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u50	Dear colleague, first of all, I would like to correct false information about the causes of the consolidation of Infrabel. Some want to believe that this is the result of the royal decree adopted in December 2016, after deliberation by the Council of Ministers, concerning the allocations of SNCB and Infrabel companies for the years 2017 to 2020. That's not the case. In August, my firm was informed of the questions asked by Eurostat and the ICN during their two-year visit, but without any mention of the scenario of consolidation. Having discovered, by press channels, that Infrabel's consolidation was highly likely on the basis of Infrabel's responses to the ICN, my firm invited ICN, Infrabel and other relevant firms – Budget, Finance, Mobility – to several meetings. I can only base my answer on what has been said, because neither Infrabel nor I have received any formal information from the NCI to date. It emerged from these meetings that due to the methodology for calculating the consolidation ratio requested by the ICN for the years 2014 to 2016, Infrabel's consolidation ratio is less than 50% as of 2014, two years before the Royal Decree. This should lead to the consolidation of Infrabel, with retroactive effect, from 2014 to 2016. The State accounts should be amended with retroactive effect for those years concerned. In view of this conclusion, according to my information, the ICN has not requested a recalculation of the consolidation ratio taking into account the effects of the Royal Decree in question. Therefore, whether royal or not: in 2014, following the new rules for the calculation of depreciation, the ICN considers that it was necessary to consolidate as early as 2014. I would like to point out that Belgium is no exception since 19 networks are already consolidated, according to my information received at the meeting. For example, the French network was consolidated in early September, shortly after Spain. In terms of liquidity implications, it is expected that, by default, consolidated companies will have to transfer their cash-management to bpost, which is responsible for this management on behalf of the Belgian Treasury. However, the law provides that other arrangements may be granted. This has been done regularly in the past vis-à-vis other consolidated entities. In view of a series of specific needs inherent in Infrabel's missions that cannot be met through the standard approach, the infrastructure manager has also applied to the Minister of Finance for an exemption. In terms of borrowing capacity, there is, in principle, no impact. There is no reason to suspect that the financial markets consider the consolidation of Infrabel as negative. On the contrary, since Infrabel is closer to the Belgian State in financial terms, consolidation could rather be an opportunity for the infrastructure manager himself. Infrabel's financing cost on the financial markets is indeed higher than that of the Belgian State. This is why it is currently being examined to what extent it is still worthwhile for Infrabel to present itself in financial markets or if intervention by the Federal Debt Agency does not prove to be more advantageous. Infrabel asked the Federal Debt Agency this question. The consolidation decision has no impact on the management of Infrabel's assets. As far as investments are concerned, Infrabel will be subject, first, to the Act of 22 May 2003 on the organisation of the budget and the accounting of the Federal State, as amended by the Act of 25 December 2016, which implies, inter alia, that it will have to carry out a budget each year according to the budgetary cycles of the State which differ from the current budget cycle, which should be approved by the appropriate minister who will forward it to the Minister of the Budget. Secondly, it will be subject to specific monthly and annual reporting obligations on this budget. Currently, an analysis has been undertaken to reconcile the functioning of the infrastructure manager with these budgetary rules of the Belgian State. SNCB provided the Institute of National Accounts with an answer to the questions asked by the Institute. SNCB is not included in the October 2018 version of the consolidated entity list on the ICN website.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u51	We'll try to respect the speaking times.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u52	First of all, I am surprised that you learned this through the press and that you have no official information, especially since there was a two-year visit. I understand that, in your opinion, there would be no impact, no impact, both on Infrabel's investments and on Infrabel's cash flow. I hope that this is the case and that there is no risk to carry out all the investments that Infrabel has to make. If I understand correctly, no specific action will be taken in relation to the Royal Decree. We do not change anything and we only analyse the fact that Infrabel's debt is actually reflected in the state's accounts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u53	The royal decree is not the cause of consolidation, it has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u54	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u55	Mrs Grovonuis, I suggest that you ask your two questions one after the other. I will then give the floor to the other authors of the attached questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u56	Madam Chair, I will begin by asking the most general question about the management contract. Minister, the press – again! Always her! – echoed an interim version of the future management contract for SNCB to which it would have had access. The very announcement of the arrival of a management contract is already an information in itself as long as it has been waiting "since, since", as it is said in Africa. However, the elements mentioned in the press raise questions and even raise questions. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u57	Yes, it's an expression. We say "since, ever since" to say it's been a long time. However, the elements mentioned in the press raise questions and even raise – I said – serious concerns, even unbelief among commuters and railway workers. It is a question of trains without controllers, which, of course, poses many problems. There are already many reactions to the possible abolition of train attendants. Indeed, we know the important role that they play in the trains in terms of social control, but also in giving information to commuters, ensuring safety at the start of trains, but also in trains. There is also a question of the possible abolition of stations. This is the subject of one of my next questions. In particular, we have heard about the possible closure of Tamines station. The press still reports on tariff differentiation, from Eurostar to Antwerp three years after the abolition of the Thalys Wallon, the abolition of windows, the abolition of compensation for small delays. In short, more than a management contract, it is a real catalogue of horrors that journalists have had access to. It was to such an extent that SNCB's CEO itself had to deny on social networks the will, in particular, to remove train attendants. In addition, such a management contract would be approved in the Council of Ministers, I quote: "as early as next week". This procedure would then be contrary to the law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain economic public enterprises, since - I would recall - Article 5, § 2/1 of that law requires that "not later than one month after receipt of the draft new management contract proposed by the board of directors of the public undertaking, the minister shall report to the Legislative Chambers". The aim of this provision is, of course, to include Parliament directly in the discussion of the management contract, before it can be finally approved by the Council of Ministers. Therefore, Minister, I have many questions. Most of all, I need you to clarify the situation. What is the status of the process of adopting management contracts for SNCB and Infrabel? That is, of course, the question we all ask ourselves. What are your intentions with regard to the elements that I have identified in the question, namely, unaccompanied trains, the abolition of stations, tariff differentiation, the creation of a Eurostar stop in Antwerp, the abolition of additional windows in stations or the abolition of compensation for certain delays? We need to hear your answers and to know your positions on these points. Finally, minister, who wrote this provisional version, which, obviously, journalists had access to? Is this the management committee of the SNCB, as provided by law?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u58	Madam President, Minister, of course the subject is the same. I have responded in the press to the proposals I have read, but their status is unclear to me. That is why I am referring here in this House only to the legislation that we have adopted, in particular the new article in the law of 21 March 1991 which provides that Parliament must be informed by the Management Committee not later than one month after receipt of the draft management agreement. It concerns Article 5 (2), first paragraph. My question is very brief. Will that article be respected? Where are we? What timing do you have in mind so that we in the Chamber can conduct the debate on the basis of correct documents and not on the basis of newspaper articles?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u59	Madam President, Minister, the future management contract for SNCB must be submitted to the Council of Ministers. It could have been expected to address the crucial issues of mobility and the environment. But, according to the leaks published in the newspaper De Morgen, on 20 October 2018, it seems to contain exactly the opposite: reduction of the supply (closing of stations and stops, removal of windows), deterioration of the service and safety (trains without attendants), increase of the rates (differentiating prices at peak times, increase of rates even in case of a decrease in punctuality),... All this is not very happy. Therefore, you will understand, Mr.Minister, that we are concerned and that we want to ask you a number of questions. Do you confirm the possibility of introducing the One Man Car? If so, what motivates you to open up this possibility? Have you studied the negative consequences for quality of service and safety, not to mention employment? Do you confirm the possibility of introducing price flexibility according to the time of travel? Is the fall in prices in off-peak hours not a flattering way of moving prices up at rush hours? Do you confirm the removal of a link between punctuality performance and price increases? With the rise in peak-hour tariffs, this would be a second factor in tariffs. Don't you fear that you might push more passengers to the car? Do you have a study on the relationship between price (up or down) and demand? Do you confirm the possibility of removing stations, stops and counters? Isn't this supply reduction logic a dangerous vicious circle? Indeed, the more the offer is reduced, the less people take the train. The less they take the train, the higher the costs and the higher the costs, the lower the supply, etc. And so we fit into a negative spiral. Does this management plan contain quantified prospects for increasing the share of the train in modes of transport? Are not all of the rebuffing measures contained in the plan a glaring irresponsibility in view of the increasingly long queues, the 11,000 people who die from pollution each year, and the global warming and disasters that result therefrom? Minister, aren't you in a "train" to break the wonderful tool that the SNCB could be?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u60	Minister, I will not go back to what my colleagues have said. My question will therefore be limited to a single sentence: can you confirm all the information disseminated by the press? Fake news or not fake news?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u61	Madam President, Minister, a great deal has already been said here. My question is specifically about the reports according to which SNCB would abolish the conductors. It was stated that in the future certain trains would run without a train guide. Through the so-called one-man-car principle there would only be a driver on board. Mrs Dutordoir, CEO of SNCB, very quickly denied the rumours that were going around. I quote, "As long as I'm here, that won't happen." Just as the new management agreement with SNCB is on the table with the government, all this is very inconvenient. I also have major questions about the abolition of train attendants in the near future or in the near future. First of all... Has the option of removing train escorts on certain trains been studied? Where appropriate, can you share the results with this committee? Which train lines and/or trains were provided for such a scenario? What would the arguments be for that? Does the Minister know about examples abroad? If so, please explain. Points 2, 3 and 4 are about retirement and dismissal. Can I have the answers in writing? Fifth. To what extent do you believe that the removal of the role of train attendant can lead to effective savings for SNCB? I'd like an explanation. Sixth. Do you believe that removing the train coach function will have a positive or negative effect on the customer-friendliness of SNCB? This remains an important point of reference. Seventh. How do you think safety on board trains can be guaranteed if there is no train attendant on board? I myself have repeatedly asked questions about aggression on board, but I am also thinking, for example, of becoming unwell for a passenger or an accident by train.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u62	Madam President, Minister, I shall be brief. As we have been waiting quite a long time for management contracts and we have heard all kinds of media coverage about them, I would like to ask you about a state of affairs. So, Minister, what is the state of play with regard to the management contracts of SNCB and Infrabel? What is the state of play with regard to multi-annual investment plans, i.e. the ordinary multi-annual investment plan and the multi-annual strategic investment plan? This would have been the subject of an opinion from the Advisory Committee of the Train Passengers. Is there any clarity on these opinions? What is the timing of the investment plans? Cooperation agreements with the regions will also have to be ratified. Have any steps been taken in this regard? How's that going? So what is the state of play with regard to all these future plans at SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u63	Minister, allow me to make a small point as President. For the past two years, we have been telling you that we must respect the law. We hope that you intend to apply it and that the management contract will not be reviewed in intercabinets until it is communicated to the House. This would also avoid such questions. A one-day exchange of views around a management contract is preferable to oral questions about its content. The current method is not a way of working. On behalf of this committee, I would therefore like you to provide very precise answers as to the status of this management contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to questions relating to information which has been disclosed in the press about the future management contract, I can only deplore the attitude of those who have tried and will probably continue to try to undermine the background work in the future, by launching test balloons by interposed press. A management contract links two parties: autonomous public companies and the State. In recent years, a sound reporting process to Parliament has been developed. However, since my predecessors since 2012 have never considered it useful to start work, this procedure could never be applied. This will happen for the future contract under discussion. In view of the state of play, I will not comment here on issues that have been leaked. This would give the impression that I confirm the information published in the press. In such a negotiation process, as long as there is no agreement on everything, there is no agreement on anything, as a former Prime Minister once said. Compared to the other questions, I can confirm that on 15 June 2018, the Council of Ministers approved the multi-annual investment plans (MIPs) 2018-2020 and the multi-annual strategic plans (MSPs) 2018-2031 of SNCB and Infrabel for publication in the form of a royal decree and subject to the conclusions of the political discussions still to be conducted on certain aspects of management contracts. In accordance with the Law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises, the Advisory Committee on Train Passengers and the Rail Investment Cell was consulted. The Travel Advisory Committee forwarded its opinion 18/1 to the Minister on April 5, 2018. In its opinion, the Committee considered that the priorities outlined in its own-initiative opinion No 1604 on the preparation of multiannual investment plans were largely followed. In particular, he stressed the priority given by SNCB to improving the reliability of rolling stock and to moving towards standardisation of equipment at stations and stop points. Putting the traveller at the heart of the concerns, the committee appreciates Infrabel's priority to renew and maintain the capacity of the network to ensure structurally improved punctuality. He also stressed a few points of attention. The Railway Investment Cell submitted its opinion to the Minister on 30 March 2018. The Rail Investment Cell notes that SNCB's MIP 2018-2020 continues to place the customer at the heart of its investments in rolling stock, workshops and reception, while respecting operational safety. The MIP 2018-2020 focuses on investments in operational safety and in the maintenance of the rail network. The Investment Cell calls for particular attention to continue to be paid to investments of a specific nature. On May 18, 2018, Infrabel forwarded to the Minister the result of its consultation with the public undertakings that it conducted from February 21. The questions and comments transmitted by the railway undertakings which responded were not such as to call into question the content of Infrabel's PPI and PSPI. The Strategic Environmental Assessment Advisory Committee was asked to give an opinion on the need for an environmental impact assessment on the draft multiannual strategic plans of SNCB and Infrabel. After thorough analysis, the SEA Advisory Committee stated in its unanimous opinion of 18 April 2018 that these draft multi-annual strategic investment plans do not require a strategic assessment of the environmental impact. Mr Yüksel, yesterday you sent me the question of how many train escorts have retired over the last five years, how many have voluntarily left SNCB and how many have been recruited in all these years. SNCB informs me that I will be getting all these figures in the near future, together with the explanations you are asking for.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u65	Minister, we are again facing a particular situation. A document is circulating and has not been validated by any official authority. I agree with the message that our President has given you: the law requires you to pass through Parliament before any decision is taken at the Council of Ministers. I hope I do not learn in the press on Friday or this weekend that this management contract has been agreed in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u66	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u67	Perfect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u68	You can see the agenda of tomorrow's government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u69	Madam President, Minister, for the record, we are not the ones organizing these leaks. We are only contacted to respond to leaks. So I do not feel addressed when you speak of those who cause the leaks. I also note the following. I am aware of the legislation to which I referred, because we had to reach a compromise in extreme terms when the text was adopted. This legislation can only refer to the current legislature. This is about your predecessor in this legislature, because this text was drawn up at the end of the previous legislature. So your predecessors could not have been consulted on the new modalities in the 1991 law because Parliament amended them at the end of the previous legislature. A number of people feared things. It was said that one should avoid the gongfler la poitrine. Parliament has just shown a great sense of responsibility for discussing the issue openly and transparently. I think this is a good piece of legislation. I think it is better to debate on the basis of actual texts than on the basis of newspaper articles. I therefore hope that once the text has been given to the Management Committee, to whatever extent, it can be delivered to Parliament as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u70	Minister, you are not answering anything on the substance. I'm at least waiting for you to answer about the procedure. You say you should not undermine the work by throwing test balloons in the press, but avoid it too. You are referring to a process of reporting to Parliament. Talk about it. What's your calendar? What is to be expected? The only thing we know is that it will not be discussed tomorrow in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u71	It's a work that's quite slow.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u72	You talked about the past. What should be expected for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u73	Remember that it is a management contract that will be pre-opening. I've had management contracts that have been extended by an amendment for seven years. This is a very important background work on market opening.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u74	Okay, but where are we?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u75	Mr Van Hees, I will ask the minister to inform the secretariat when he has a timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u76	Is that how you interpret his answer? Minister, is that what we need to understand? You won't give us anything about the process? If you do not answer either on the substance or on the procedure, what more can I say?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u77	I'm not asking you!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u78	Of which act! What do you want us to do?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u79	Minister, I think it would be good if you came out with a management contract as soon as possible. This provides a framework within which SNCB must work. We are currently working with an outdated 2012 framework. When are you going to land with this management contract? You don't answer the questions about the one-man-car principle. Apart from whether this is or will be in the management contract, I asked for your personal appreciation. You are hiding behind the fact that the negotiations are still ongoing. We'll keep following up on this. I am, of course, very interested in the figures you will give me through SNCB. However, there is no doubt that there is a need to make haste. SNCB needs a modern, updated framework within which it can work both for its customers and for the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u80	I have little to add to this. I asked about a state of affairs regarding the various plans. Thank you, Minister, for your answers. We are, of course, looking forward to the lyrics.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u81	You will understand, minister, we are waiting for news and a timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u82	Minister, there is a rumor about the closure of Tamines station. What about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u83	Mrs Grovonius, as far as Tamines station is concerned, the SNCB confirms to me that the closure of the windows is not on the agenda but that adjustments to the opening hours are still possible. We did it at thirty stations last year. I do not know when or how or where SNCB intends to make schedule adjustments. At the Jemelle-Rochefort station, schedule adjustments were made. That happened last year. I had heard the news the day before the adaptation! It is not my responsibility, as a minister, to be aware of these things. SNCB is an autonomous undertaking whose previous management contract granted it the option to adapt the timetables. The SNCB confirms to me and I reply that the closure of the counters as rumored does in Tamines is not on the agenda but that adjustments to the opening hours are still possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u84	I understand your answer and have no problem with the distribution of competences. I am reassured that a window closure is not planned. Is it still possible, as a parliamentarian, as a minister, to request full information? The answer still suggests that there will be scheduling adjustments. Could we have specific information on what is planned for this station?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u85	Remember the previous wave. In two or three stations the timetables of the windows have been changed. There was a parliamentary question and they announced adaptations in sixteen plus twelve stations within the framework of the freedom given to them in the management contract. The SCNB, which I interviewed following questions asked to me, confirms to me that the closure of the windows is not on the agenda but that adjustments to the opening hours are still possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u86	That is the minister's firm and definitive response.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u87	Minister, soon, the attendants will have to wear a badge indicating their name and the initial of their first name. This obligation stems from a decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union which considers that it must be possible to identify those whose work is to find infringements which are subsequently punished. Nevertheless, identification could take place in different ways. Accompaniers could, for example, use a pseudonym or identification number. This is what is required by the unions and train attendants. Minister, do you understand the fears of the attendants who feel threatened by this measure today? Are the proposed alternatives or have they been examined? If no alternatives could be considered, could you tell us why?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u88	Mr Minister, my question is actually a copy-paste of Mr Grovonius' oral statement. Article 25 provides that determining officials must also make themselves known and be able to be identified by name at any time. However, the privacy aspect in case of conflict or disagreement is of concern to the staff and they propose an identification number as an alternative method so that the staff member can identify himself with the train traveller. Why has the law chosen this way of identifying where the name has to be displayed explicitly and at all times? What are the advantages and disadvantages of that system? Are you aware of the feedback from the staff that revealing their identity in conflict situations is a risk to them and that they fear even being approached privately afterwards?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u89	Colleagues, the Railway Police Act of 27 April 2018 is both the result of a government agreement and a vote in this Parliament. The identification of train attendants which is planned does not fall from nowhere but is an obligation which stems from Belgian and European case law. The aim of this measure is to protect citizens from possible abuses by allowing them to easily identify monitoring agents. This is also the case for communal, STIB or other monitoring agents. As regards the choice of method of identification, it should be recalled that the determining officers acting under other laws, such as Securail, the police or the municipality, must wear a name badge. The law on the police of the railways does nothing but impose a rule that already applies to several thousand people within a similar framework. I have met with the unions who have informed me of the attendants' fears for their safety following the implementation of this measure. I have insisted that there should be no confusion between attacks on escorts - which I strongly condemn and which must be fought against - with the wearing of the badge. Combining the two debates could lead to bad answers. The debate on aggression must be managed as part of an anti-aggression plan as it exists at SNCB. Finally, of course, the implementation of the measure will have to give rise to a follow-up by SNCB. If, after an evaluation, it appears that new phenomena are developing with regard to the train escorts, the identification will have to be questioned again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u90	Minister, thank you for your answers. In your opinion, we must not link the debates on the assaults of the attendants and on the wearing of the badge. Unfortunately, for the attendants, in the current situation, with severe deterioration in working conditions and an increase in attacks, the wearing of the badge gives rise to further concern. In a desire to appease minds and make everyone feel good about their work, it seems to me that alternatives are quite simple to implement. You can have something other than a first name and a first name from the moment you can clearly identify the person: a pseudonym or an identification number. I don't understand this blockage of authority. The alternative can be easily implemented and could provide train attendants, workers and railway workers with a positive element in a landscape that sometimes seems a bit morose in recent times.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u91	Minister, I assume that any adjustments will be made in the context of the social dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u92	Madam President, Minister, this morning I asked the same questions to the Minister with your powers and to the Minister of Telecom a few years after the same date. This morning, I asked Minister De Croo my questions about the impact of the exit plan. Newspaper reports and the reality of only one working nuclear power plant and the fact that no alternatives have been provided, are likely to ensure that we are dealing effectively with the switch-off plan in the short term. SNCB is one of the largest pantographs in the country. Without power, therefore, has a huge impact on the organisation of its core activities. Indeed, signalling systems, train changes, will not work and such will not work. The companies are well aware of the problem. Hopefully they have worked out a plan together with Elijah and other agencies. My question remains today, four years after date, the next one. Where are we now? Four years ago, we weren't far. It was said that one would see what was happening, but it was feared that nothing could be done except to reduce the lighting outside and in the offices. On the substance, however, I did not receive an answer at the time. Four years later, the question is once again where we stand. Is both SNCB and Infrabel better prepared? What measures have been taken? Will there be an impact at the shutdown? If so, which one? What safety risk is associated with the shutdown?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u93	Madam President, Minister, I agree with Mr Geerts' questions. The same day but four years ago, I asked those questions. The problems with the supply of electricity are well known. This morning the news came that every Thursday the risk of a possible shutdown will be announced or decided on the following week. As part of the train service, of course, the question arises as to what the possible impact of the railway switch-off plan could be. Let's hope it doesn't happen, but it's important to think about that. Mr Minister, what is the possible impact of the switch-off plan on SNCB services? What is the impact of switching off different drives? One starts with a first disc, but possibly a second disc comes with it, and so on. In what scenarios can trains still run, with a full or limited timetable? Can you give me a picture of that? What would happen to the freight trains? What is the potential budgetary impact for SNCB and Infrabel? Is it true that the barriers would remain close to a power cut in the municipalities belonging to a particular disk? How will safety and flow be guaranteed? What energy-saving measures will SNCB take as part of the switch-off plan? What energy-saving measures will Infrabel take as part of the switch-off plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, the cooperation between Infrabel, the network operators and the government has greatly improved. Every year, Infrabel receives data from the distribution system operators relating to the cabs of the system operator and the associated switching disc. On this basis, Infrabel can check on a map which switch disc is applicable to which connection. In this way, Infrabel knows which installations are likely to be affected by a power failure. As regards the current winter, On Friday 12 October, Infrabel received the data relating to the system operators. Infrabel is currently carrying out an analysis of the impact on the installations. The results are expected by the end of this month. Infrabel and SNCB have promised the federal government to reduce electricity consumption in times of scarcity, by driving with a limited supply of trains, on the one hand, and by reducing heating, on the other. In this way, it should be avoided that the Minister should effectively give a mandate to Elijah to proceed to closure. In addition, Infrabel examines which consideration is affected by a shutdown. This information is transmitted to the crisis centre, which in turn informs the provinces and the municipalities. In this way, the municipalities can identify the priority consideration, which should remain open in the event of a switch-off so that road traffic remains possible. The exit plans as laid down by Ministerial Decree were not amended. In concrete terms, this means that the connections of Infrabel are part of the shutdown plan. Since Infrabel has 1,500 connections across the country, this means that Infrabel is affected by every shutdown. Since these connections are used for the supply of signalling and alternating heating, the consideration and lighting in station buildings, a switch-off has an effect on train traffic. For these reasons, Infrabel and SNCB, in consultation with the federal government, decided that in the event that the Minister gives a mandate to Elia to take out disc 8, there will be no train traffic in the affected area throughout the day D. A limited train service is offered outside the affected areas. As soon as the Minister gives Elijah a mandate to switch off one or more other drives, that day will not run a passenger train on the whole network. This measure has been taken to avoid chaos on the track and to enable Infrabel to secure the priority consideration so that road traffic is not hindered. The options for the operation of freight trains will be viewed in real time on the day of the cut-off.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u95	Mr. Secretary, to be honest, you gave a rather uneasy answer. With regard to the organisation of train traffic, I can conclude from your answer that there will simply be no trains in some areas. After all, when I look at the map of the various zones with train traffic, I notice that it is always about zones where a switch-off plan will be in force. You are talking about avoiding chaos, but I do not think that will amount to traffic. We regret the fact that mispolicy in another department must lead to these consequences for commuters, students and occasional train users.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u96	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. It is a good thing that certain elements are mentioned, because if it is ever necessary, let us hope that it will not be necessary, good communication with the municipal authorities and the rail passengers will be essential. Hopefully, the administration of municipalities with transitory train traffic and consideration will be informed in good time about the possible consequences of a possible shutdown. I understand that Infrabel has only just been informed of any possible interventions. The translation of possible interventions into consideration and the like is thus still being mapped out. In the meantime, the procedure relating to the shutdown plan has been initiated. I hope, therefore, that this will lead to rapid action and good communication with the local authorities. As far as train traffic is concerned, if one disc is switched off, there is a limited train supply and there is no train supply from two discs. I'd like to present you with another scenario. If I understand correctly, Elia decides with the minister on day D-1 at about 5 p.m. whether there will be a shutdown the next day. However, in case of an emergency, Elia may decide to switch off an additional disk on the day. This could lead to a situation in which SNCB could transport commuters in the morning, for example to work, but not in the evening. This seems to me to be a particularly undesirable scenario which must be avoided. If I've understood correctly, I'm not entirely at home in those shutdown plans....................................................................................................................................... That would be a dramatic scenario, and that requires attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u97	Mr Minister, after a long afternoon on very important matters, perhaps a slightly lighter question. It is about an adaptation that may be necessary to the legislation around the school streets, but I think there are other examples as well. It is about the difference between the types of bikes, there are two-wheeled bikes and three-wheeled baking bikes and apparently a distinction is made between these bikes that is crucial. In a school street a bike with two wheels is allowed but one with three wheels apparently not. Is it possible to amend the royal decree in that sense? In the wider sense, can the Road Code also address this problem in all other cases where one makes a distinction between bikes with two wheels and three wheels? Can you adjust this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u98	Mr Minister, I agree with the questions put by Mr Dumery. We have seen a storm in a glass of water over the last few days with regard to the baking bikes in the school streets. The problem is not new. The problem also does not date from the introduction of the school streets, which already applied to play streets, which have been included in the Road Code for a long time. About a year ago I presented to you the problem of the definition of bicycle in the Road Code. That is actually a definition which is not found in the Road Code and which is therefore perhaps based on conventions. Where is the provision that a bike is a two-wheeled vehicle? I have not yet found that definition, but I assume that this is international regulation. Perhaps you could clarify that a little bit. In any case, bicycles are defined in the Road Code. There are two-, three- or four-wheeled vehicles, but not bicycles. Those definitions are therefore quite confusing. It is not entirely clear what is meant by bicycles and what is meant by bicycles. Are bicycles bicycles or his bicycles? Get out of it. We assumed that this would be resolved in the new Road Code and that the confusion would be eliminated. There is an artificial distinction between bicycles and bicycles. In particular, it is important to apply a certain width, whereby vehicles of less than one metre, for example, would be assimilated to the classic bicycles and would be subject to separate rules for wider vehicles. We all know that the Road Code was sent back to square one by the advice of the Flemish government. As a result, the confusion with regard to the play streets and the school streets comes back to the surface. Mr. Secretary, how are we going to solve this? I read in the newspaper: MEPs have to solve it themselves, because they have created the problem. That seems to me to be a bit short. I think this is a problem that has been in the Road Code for a long time. Of course, we want to deal with this and work together to find a solution. What article today stipulates that a bike can only have two wheels? Is it desirable to allow tricycles and quadricycles in play and school streets? That is certainly the case for us. If so, how can this best be arranged? By adding to the definition of play and school street that tricycles and quadricycles are allowed, by introducing a definition of bike or by aligning tricycles and quadricycles of more than one metre wide with bicycles? Those are just a few proposals. We are happy to discuss this with you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u99	If it was Parliament's intention to allow three-wheeled baking bikes in school streets, it is regrettable that the bill in which this is introduced refers to bicycles instead of bicycles. The traffic rules do not define what a bicycle is, but systematically make the difference between cyclists and drivers of bicycles. This is particularly important because of the different widths of these vehicles. Under the term "cyclists', the traffic rules always refer to drivers of two-wheeled bicycles, while the term "drivers of bicycles' is used to refer to drivers of bicycles in general and independently of the number of wheels. There's no reason, to my mind, to deny bicycles access to play and school streets. In the draft revision of the Road Code, this has also been included in this way. The explanatory statement of your legislative proposals and the report do not mention bicycles at all. This seems to indicate that specific cyclists were targeted. As I understand from your questions that this is not the intention, I suggest that you table a legislative proposal to correct this. To this end, it is sufficient to replace the word "cyclists" with the words "cyclists of bicycles."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u100	Mr. Secretary, I know you weren't here as a Member of Parliament before you became Minister. Maybe I should explain to you how this place works. We also have our legislative work and we look to each other, within the majority, to work together. It's not like we're sitting here putting the plumes on each other's hat. We had taken a legislative initiative, but you seem to see us as a competitor. You have a road code that we've been waiting for for a very long time. In the end, there was one bill that had to be voted on so that it would go forward. An adjustment must be made now. So it would be an ideal time to make adjustments to your road code, but I hear from you now that we have to table a modified legislative proposal ourselves. I think that is a very strange reasoning. We reach out to you, we work with you, but you do not take our outstretched hand. Did I get that right? That is at least how I interpret your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u101	Minister, the most important thing is that we work together to find a solution. I think your suggestion will help. We will then, of course, draw up a new bill to adapt the KB. It would have been even easier if you had done so immediately, including for the play streets. We had based our scheme for the school streets on the existing arrangement of the play streets in which the confusion also emerged. Now saying that this is clumsy work seems to me to be a bit short, but we should have anticipated it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u102	The answer lies in a new road code. We are awaiting a positive opinion on the new road code.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u103	Can I get into that for a second? Indeed, it was expected that the problem of bicycles and bicycles would be resolved in the new road code and that a clear width would be defined. But unfortunately, if I understand correctly, that new road code will not be for tomorrow, and I regret that very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u104	Mr. Van den Bergh, you have the floor for your next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u105	Madam President, I will translate my last two questions into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic989x.u106	You heard the minister. Questions Nos 27384 and 27385 by Mr Jef Van den Bergh are transformed into written questions. I thank everyone.
