ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic815x.u1	Mr President, Mr Minister, according to the revelations on the defence-aerospace.com site, in the perspective of the shutdown which precipitated an unexpected announcement made by the American Agency for Security and Military Cooperation (DSCA) dependent on the Pentagon, the Pentagon was forced to notify Congress of the sales of American military equipment according to the FMS (Foreign Military Sales) procedure. On 18 January, the DSCA notified the possibility of selling 34 F-35 Lightning II bombers from the Lockheed Martin group to Belgium for a potential amount of 6.53 billion dollars (about 5.35 billion euros). To this amount, it would add €1.2 billion in operating costs in the first years. The American manufacturer would have hoped to silence the price of the F-35 until February 14, when the best and final offer was handed over to the Belgian Defense, but this was not possible for internal political circumstances in the United States. Mr Minister, at his hearing, on 26 April 2016 in the Defence Committee, Colonel Van Pee announced that this market represented a basic public investment estimated at more or less EUR 3.5 billion in purchase and an invoice for a total amount (including maintenance) of EUR 15 billion for a 40-year programme, which you later confirmed, on numerous occasions, here or in the press. Lockheed Martin's $6.6 billion in highly official U.S. documents represents an immensely larger amount than the Defence and government plans. How do you envisage, in the upcoming procurement, containing the costs of purchase and maintenance? Secondly, these unfortunate and involuntary revelations are likely to further compromise a public market which has experienced a great deal of confusion, knowing that this leak occurs well before the deadline of 14 February and the date of submission of the offer by the two remaining competitors in the proceedings. Have Defence legal services analyzed the impact that this announcement may have on the ongoing market? What are their conclusions? Finally, when will the government finally decide on the regularity of the French offer of your colleague and Minister of Defence with regard to the current public procurement procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic815x.u2	Colleagues, Minister, good morning. Minister, the date of February 14 is fast approaching. As a reminder, as part of the procedure launched by the government for the replacement of F-16s, it is on that date that the best offers from the government agencies representing the aircraft manufacturers still in the running take place. The French application, outside this procedure, is still pending. In early November, I asked the Prime Minister about this. He replied: "For the time being, the government has considered that we need to continue the legal analysis in order to make the clarity clear, so as not to commit any legal fault in this extremely delicate process. We will probably need a little more time to make the legal clarity, since there are separate legal opinions on the subject. I want to be quite clear: in the context of a case of this nature, we will not escape, when the time comes, political appreciation." A few days from the date of February 14, what is the status of the government and your department in the procedure? What is the status of the new legal analysis that the Prime Minister was talking about in his response to the French offer? When will the government take a position in this context and more specifically on the follow-up to the letter from the French Minister of Armies?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic815x.u3	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what I call the most expensive option, in particular replacing the current F-16 with the most expensive aircraft in the world, the F-35, or two other possible fighter planes. I myself would like to come back to a slope that was launched earlier by the sp.a, a slope that is much cheaper. On 29 June 2016, I asked you in committee whether studies were not carried out on behalf of the European partners with F-16s to extend the structural life of these European F-16s beyond the intended lifetime of 8 000 hours. I actually asked that question in the slipstream of a question by Mr Grosemans, whom you first asked a written question and then an oral one. You replied that the airworthiness of the Belgian F-16s is not certified after 8 000 hours. There's been about a year and a half between that question and this day. That is why I ask you whether the file on the extension of that life span has evolved in the meantime? I also ask you whether there has been any research and study work by Lockheed Martin to see if the Block 15 version we have in Belgium can still be used after 8 000 hours. I have two questions about this. First of all, was the Defense Department ever asked Lockheed Martin to analyse whether the lifetime of our type F-16 could be extended after the 8 000 hours provided? Secondly, has the Defense Department ever made a proposal to check, on the basis of the actual flight hours of our F-16s, their usage profile and their wear factor, and to see if they can be used longer than these 8,000 hours?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic815x.u4	Since Mr. Dallemagne and Mr. Van Hees is not here, I propose to give the floor to the minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic815x.u5	Madam and gentlemen, first of all, I invite you to read out the answers I provided on 25 January to the questions raised by Mrs Grosemans and Mr Top in plenary session. However, I will help you understand the American context. The notification to which you refer is part of an administrative process, similar to those we know at home, to be followed by the U.S. state agency in order to issue, on February 14, a best and final offer (BAFO), as required by the Request for Government Proposal. The amount referred to therein includes the acquisition of equipment, spare parts and equipment, training, etc. It is therefore not at all comparable to the €3.5 billion contained in the military programming law. That said, the best and final offer amounts will have to be taken into account during the evaluation in order to make a reasoned recommendation to the government. It is therefore premature to seek conclusions. The same applies to any other aspect of this competition. With regard to the French approach, I have already informed you of my position on several occasions. She hasn't changed. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, I have still not received a legal opinion contradicting the other two that have been communicated to me before. Mr Van der Maelen, I have repeatedly answered questions about the extension of the lifetime of the current F-16. Too bad, but I can only continue to give you the same answer. In the framework of the lifetime monitoring of the Belgian F-16, Block 15, the Defence Staff, in collaboration with Lockheed Martin and under the management of the US Air Force, succeeds the structural ageing from day to day. Analyses have been and are still being carried out to determine which structural maintenance programmes, inspections and any repairs are to be carried out in order to achieve the certified lifespan of 8 000 hours of flight. The structural life of an aeroplane can always be extended if sufficient resources are provided. The question to be asked is whether our F-16 will continue to be relevant and operational. After all, we are talking about technology from the early seventies. As has already been mentioned several times in my reply to previous questions on the same subject, it is clear that this is not the case and that I am implementing the decision of the government last March.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic815x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answers. I was present at the exchange you had with Mrs Grosemans and Mr Top in plenary. I'll come back. The market has grown from five competitors to two. French political pressure is unrivalled and extremely important. They're huge. Your colleague, Minister Jambon, said that Belgium had asked for an opinion from the European Commission on compliance with the 2009 directive to prevent economic compensation. You have confirmed to my colleague De Vriendt that, in fact, this is not the case. The current market's favourite, Lockheed Martin, announces an extremely expensive purchase and maintenance price. We're talking about the double. I understand that the figures shown visibly in the U.S. official documents do not concern the best and final offer that will be made in a few days' time, on February 14, 2018. That is, however, extremely worrying.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic815x.u7	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic815x.u8	That's what you're saying. We'll see. This is in any case a figure both very far from the 15 billion compared to the amount advanced for the entire program and much closer to the potential 3.5 billion that competitors will probably advance on February 14, 2018. One thing is certain is that Defence must make sure that this market is not SNCB's Fyra, as it was at the time. I conclude by referring to Mrs Grosemans' conclusion in the debates you had, about ten days ago in plenary. Being a reliable and respected partner, underpinned by the United States, is not enough reason to weigh such a huge market over two generations of Belgians.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic815x.u9	Minister, I thank you for these answers, although they do not reassure me very much. I also called on Minister Peeters on the same subject. I'm worried about the answers of one person added to the answers of the other. The attitude that the government has decided to take is clearly premature. We are absolutely not part of a European defence. As you have already told me, and this was confirmed yesterday by Mr Peeters, there is no question of being concerned about societal benefits, when these are important markets that can create jobs for our different regions. You decided not to worry about it. I find this extremely serious in view of the amounts. As far as the French offer is concerned, I understand between the lines that it is out of the field. We therefore have on the table today the offer of one Brexit candidate and another, which will cost twice as much, when we know that these markets will have repercussions for decades, years during which we will not contribute to European defence. I deeply regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic815x.u10	Mr Minister, I am sorry to say that no analysis has been requested of Lockheed regarding the extension of life. I regret this. This would have been an additional option that guaranteed our air combat capacity for several years to come. In addition, we would have acquired air combat capacity at a budget far lower price, something which cannot be said to be insignificant in these times of budgetary cutback. I repeat that I have already referred to Taiwan in my previous question. However, there would also be other studies by Lockheed that prove that our F-16 aeroplanes can actually fly more than 8 000 hours. I regret that this study is not being used to draw the conclusion that fighting capacity could be maintained at a much lower budget price. That seems to me to be the most sensible option. Minister, I regret that you, following the majority, do not choose that slope.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic815x.u11	Minister, I should like to ask you about the report that was recently published on the United Nations peacekeeping forces. Following the heavy loss of life suffered by peacekeepers since 2013 (195 dead in four years, 57 in 2017 alone), a report aimed at radically changing the UN approach to the five most dangerous theatres was published. The report casts light on the leadership deficit and recommends a radical change of mind. Among the recommendations of Carlos Alberto dos Santos Cruz is the need to allow a state to become aware of the risks it faces and to take initiatives to thwart the attacks because, according to the Brazilian general, the troops are more often attacked for their inaction rather than for their action. The report also points to an intractable problem: the fact that national contributions are made on a voluntary basis. Each contingent therefore has combativeness and contrasting material. Some States have resources but do not have the will to take risks and others have less resources but the will to take those risks. The report concludes that "the UN flag no longer offers natural protection". It is therefore necessary, according to the author of the report, to improve training and equipment, to strengthen the responsibility of the contingent chiefs. Mr Minister, what is Belgium's position with regard to the conclusions of this report and what is the reflection on this subject, when we know that the number of Belgian soldiers involved in UN missions is very low? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic815x.u12	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, as far as the Department of Defence is concerned, he agrees with the conclusions of this report, which highlights long-standing problems. Our country, through its commitment to Mali in one of the most important missions, takes its share of risk according to the means available. At the same time, we are taking part and investing in the training of peacekeeping troops. We thus increase the expertise and the quality of the troops involved. For example, courses of the "Train the trainer" type, such as those given to NTB in 2016 and 2017. However, in view of the government's official position on this matter, I invite you to address the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for this policy. As far as I am concerned, I would like to repeat once again that it is not only the number of soldiers deployed but also the quality of the work that is being done that matters. You know that today we are still at MINUSMA's lead, which is the most important. You know we just sent helicopters to Mali. Later in the year, we will send C-135s to contribute, and proceed, as they say, to smart contributions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic815x.u13	I thank the minister for his answer. In any case, it is a report that deserves reflection. It should even push this government to reflect on the overall common strategy. I will also question Minister Reynders on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic815x.u14	Having no news of Mr. De Vriendt, his question No 23322 is withdrawn. Question No 23381 by Mr Flahaux is transformed into a written question. I have no news of Mr Top's question No 23489. Questions Nos 23543 by Mrs Hufkens and 23557 by Mr Yüksel were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic815x.u15	Mr President, Minister, in April 2017, the Congolese authorities decided to suspend bilateral military cooperation between their country and Belgium, resulting in the forced return of Belgian soldiers who were in the Congo for training missions. According to Congolese officials, this breakdown of cooperation was the result of certain statements by the Belgian government, which were considered inamical. As a reminder, the Minister of Foreign Affairs had rightly criticized Bruno Tshibala's appointment to the position of Prime Minister, pointing out that this appointment deviated from the letter and spirit of the agreement of St. Sylvester. However, the DRC continues its military cooperation with countries other than Belgium. Minister, can you tell me which countries, particularly within the European Union, are currently pursuing military cooperation in the Congo? What are the nature and extent of these various bilateral cooperation? Did these countries contact Belgium when Kinshasa decided to suspend its military cooperation with our country? Did Belgium inform the countries concerned of our concern about this type of cooperation with President Kabila's regime? Do you have any exchanges on these issues with your counterparts in the European Union and NATO?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic815x.u16	Thank you, Mr Dallemagne, for the speed with which you asked your question, which is exceptional. Having said that, I am not sure that this will make it easier for interpreters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic815x.u17	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Dallemagne, your question dates from yesterday at 10:59 a.m. As the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is changing very rapidly, the position of the partner countries in terms of military and security cooperation is subject to regular changes. As a result, the questions asked require more in-depth consultation with our partners in order to be able to provide accurate and up-to-date answers. In addition, the contacts that Belgium might have with its relevant partners in order to express its concern about the type of cooperation to be maintained with the DRC are diplomatic relations. They therefore fall within the competence of the FPS Foreign Affairs. Please be aware that I have not had any recent exchanges with my counterparts in the European Union or NATO on these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic815x.u18	Do you have any Norman family, Minister of Defence? It is true that my question dates from yesterday just before 11.00 a.m. Your commission was not on the agenda either. It was programmed pretty quickly. My question was, in particular, about replacing our cooperation with French military cooperation. I think you said that at some point. I hear other voices saying that this is not bilateral cooperation, but private forces. I wanted to take stock and it didn't seem very complicated to me. I discussed these issues with the Minister of Foreign Affairs at meetings on the Congo, and he sent me back to you. I will rest my question, but I would like to have an update on the bilateral military cooperation of the European Union and NATO Member States. This is not a political analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic815x.u19	Minister, a while ago we were told that the General Intelligence and Security Service (ADIV) had contacted and negotiated with the Kurdish YPG militia in Syria. As I heard in Knack, there were negotiations for information on Belgian jihadists in Syria and the rescue of downed pilots. I understand the motives of Mr Testelmans and the ADIV to consider that slope in the name of Belgian security and the lives of Belgian armed forces active in Syria and/or Iraq. Such information is not publicly available for understandable reasons, but it seems to me that such negotiations are now coming out in order to damage the ADIV, particularly in view of the extremely complex geopolitical situation and the risks associated with cooperation with a Kurdish militia in NATO context. I therefore have the following questions, Minister. Will this incident change the way the ADIV works and the working relationship between your cabinet and the ADIV? If so, how and what specific arrangements are made in this respect? Can you explain the Belgian position vis-à-vis the Kurdish militia in Syria? Has her role as a partner in the fight against ISIS and other jihadists changed since the Turkish operation in Afrin?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic815x.u20	Mr Top, first of all I would like to say that my cabinet and I have regular contact with the ADIV. That has been the case in the past, and it must have been the case that these contacts have become more intensive since that incident. I also refer to the reply I gave last week, which was also confirmed by the Committee I, which has carried out an investigation into this matter, in particular that the ADIV acted within the law and within its mandates. I can give you a very long account of the way in which our cooperation has been formalized, but that too is a secret. Know, however, that the way in which the ADIV and the Minister cooperate is formalised and also communicated to the Committee I, the parliamentary committee which supervises the intelligence services. In that context, I repeat what I said last week. I believe that the military intelligence service should be required to collect this information in areas where we have a military operational interest and to use all the resources available under the law. In that context, and in order to establish our loyalty to the Allied nations, the ADIV must cooperate in evacuation plans and establish contacts with warring parties in Syria and Iraq. This obligation is independent of any Turkish or Allied intervention in the region. In addition, the ADIV has the legal obligation to do everything possible to gather information that may prevent the free return of foreign terrorist fighters in the context of the fight against terrorism. In response to your last question, I can tell you that the SDF, of which YPG was the backbone, has not yet been able to write down most of the reduction of IS in Syria and the conquests of the region. In this context, they are a legitimate interlocutor of the international coalition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic815x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I do not wish to comment on specific comments which are intended to be followed up or the Committee I and which should therefore not be made public. I understand that there are regular contacts with the ADIV and that they have been intensified by this incident. However, I would like to point out that releasing such information does not do our country, and at least the ADIV, and relations with both our NATO partners and the partners there on the ground, any good. You indicate that the YPG is a legitimate partner to cooperate on the ground as a function of international cooperation against IS, but this does not do the cooperation any good. It is indeed an extremely important task for our government and for you to ensure that the ADIV works and cooperates well and that certain matters are not made public.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic815x.u22	Mr Top, you know that I do not say that you are right very quickly, but you are right.
