ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament 23105 by Mr Verherstraeten and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on Mr Calvo (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u2	Mrs. Fonck is sick.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u3	Mr. Minister, on 22 January 2018, Unia sent me an e-mail with her recommendation No. 185 of November 2017, which she also sent to three members of the federal government as well as to the competent ministers in the regional and community governments. Unia, the Flemish Patient Platform (VPP) and La Ligue des Usagers des Services de Santé (LUSS) point out that early retirement due to medical disability causes problems for permanent officials. Some officials have exhausted all sick days due to their illness or disability and are obliged to retire early for permanent incapacity to work for a government employer, although they still want to work. The current government is doing everything it can to ensure that as many people as possible work for as long as possible. However, in the report Unia, the VPP and the LUSS report that the decision on permanent incapacity for work often falls, without checking whether there are alternative employment opportunities which allow the official concerned to continue to work, if necessary with reasonable adjustments. In the study "Accessibility circuits in the public sector," a report for Support Center Administrative Organisation from 2016, Léa Janvier, Sofie Aerts and Inge De Wilde made an analysis of the decision of the Medical Expertise department (MEDEX). They referred to European case law in the field of non-discrimination. They found that reasonable adjustments were always aimed at full-time work, while part-time work could also be a reasonable adjustment. Minister, may I ask you how you evaluate the recommendation of Unia, the VPP and the LUSS and how you intend to follow it up?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u4	Mr President, you will forgive me if my question was prepared in French and I will therefore reply partly in French in order to be as complete as possible. I have the recommendation No. 185 of Unia, the Flemish Patient Platform and the Ligue des Usagers des Services de Santé. My services are today studying, on the substance and in depth, what measures can be taken to translate this into reality. I can already tell you that a new call for "diversity" projects was launched at the end of January. The various FPSs will be able to benefit from additional budgets, also for projects relating to reasonable accommodation for civil servants with disabilities, for example through the adaptation of the workplace. From the beginning of 2018, the projects can be co-financed with a special budget of 80% of the project. The budget for 2018 is set at EUR 154 000. In the past these budgets have not been exhausted and we have decided to give more incentives. Instead of subsidising 50% in the past, we are going to go to 80%. In addition, the FOD BOSA provides for the necessary adjustments for persons with disabilities in selection and training. Finally, the Staff Regulations are regularly updated to support the influx of persons with disabilities and to remove obstacles to staff with disabilities or staff who face persistent health problems in the course of their professional careers. In recent years, the regulatory framework in this area has been supplemented and changed in a number of respects. First, to allow disabled staff on a traineeship to work part-time during their probationary period. Second, allow agents with chronic illness to work part-time for longer periods. So one can work part-time longer than in the past. Thirdly, teleworking and satellite office work can be made more flexible. It is also possible to ease the possibilities of teleworking and working in satellite offices. Finally, the load related to the function can be lightened. These adjustments to the Staff Regulations are intended to increase the possibility of tailor-made work for staff members who are confronted with health problems during their professional careers and to supervise return to work after a long absence from work for illness. So it is about reintegration and in the design of the codex we go even further into that. Finally, I instructed the FOD BOSA to develop a new reintegration project in which the role of the prevention advisor-work doctor is extended. As the role of the doctor is expanded, he becomes more involved in the reintegration project and can work much more actively together with the employer and the employee on re-integration options, for example by adjusting the work post, the volume of work, the working time or the position.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. A good HR policy normally means not only trying to attract good workers, but also trying to bind the good workers who already have them for as long as possible. The existing system of sick days seemed very strange to me. It is also part of the problem... Indeed, when one has used up everything, one suddenly falls into some sort of trap. That fall must be avoided at all times, especially when there is the will of the government to keep the person concerned employed, in principle because he can do a good job, and when the official himself thinks that he can actually make a good contribution to his job or to another, adapted job. Minister, you are doing a lot of work on adjustments at different levels. One of the main comments was that it was also important to look at part-time jobs, not just full-time jobs. Apparently, adjustments are possible in the context of working time. I am therefore satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u6	Minister, I am always curious about the state of the art. We had an exchange of views on this in the same room a little over a month ago. Then you indicated that the plan will be rolled out and that every minister will do so for his/her journey. However, the reason for my new question is a report on the entire programme on redesign. That note was discussed by the Council of Ministers on 9 February. From the notes from the Council of Ministers which we can look at, I also deduce that this report would have been drawn by you, so I am curious about the state of play and coordination, also because I have already asked earlier questions about coordination to the Prime Minister who sent me to you, while you held off the boat when it came to the overall picture. So I am very curious about a global state of affairs. Of course, you do not have to read the note completely, but I would like to ask that Parliament have the full report. I also have the following questions, Minister. Is coordination still in your hands, since you brought the report to the Council of Ministers? What is the budgetary impact of the eight improvement projects on an annual basis so far? Has the Council of Ministers also drawn conclusions on the report? It seems to me to be a logical and good way of working to make a number of decisions after reporting. What new initiatives are being rolled out following the reporting note? I look forward to your answers and to receiving the report so that we can look into it and study it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u7	Mr President, Minister, one of the main thrusts of this government is a re-designation of the public administration, which is supposed to provide substantial resources for the state budget without diminishing the quality of the service rendered to the citizen. After almost three and a half years of discussions, it seems useful to take stock with you. Indeed, according to the answers of your colleague Wilmès in other committees, it appears that the expected returns will not match the announcements made at the beginning of the legislature. It would also appear that the process is now entrusted to a working group, but the timing of its submission of conclusions and, more importantly, the timing of its implementation is unknown. Minister, what about it? What is the composition of this working group and what is the timetable for its work? What structural measures have been taken beyond the creation of the BOSA? With what impact on the working conditions of government officials? And by ricochet, on the quality of service to the population?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, Mr Calvo, first of all I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the questions you are asking me today have been put several times in this committee and in writing. I have therefore answered this question several times. But, benevolent as I am, of course I want to repeat some things, often the power of understanding is in listening to the repetition. As I indicated in previous committee meetings, redesign is a project of the entire government, Mr Calvo. For each course, one or more ministers have been designated as sponsors. Each minister is responsible for his or her journey and therefore also responsible for his or her journey. I understand your concern, Mr Calvo, because I am the rapporteur on a number of things and try to put together a number of things in one note, which is presented to the Council of Ministers as a progress report. However, I regularly see members of the opposition reporting on the work done in committee. I suspect that they do not always feel responsible for what was achieved in these various committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u9	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u10	There is a difference between bringing reports together and bearing the ultimate responsibility. One cannot be responsible without being competent, Mr Calvo. I'm Minister of Civil Service, I'm not Minister of Federal Government. Having said that, the progress of the pathways is discussed in a steering committee, as mentioned several times. It is composed of representatives of the various sponsors, the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Ministers and the Minister for the Budget, under the leadership of the Prime Minister's policy cell. So I'm not ahead of that group. That group makes a quarterly report to the Council of Ministers. As you know by now, I am personally responsible for the routes 1 and 6. For the other routes, I must ask you once again to contact the responsible and responsible ministers. It also seems logical to me, given the different specificity of the various dossiers, such as collection of public revenue or health care, that every minister with his department should carry out his work. With regard to the budgetary impact of route 1, i.e. centrally coordinated federal purchases, I can tell you that in 2017 the goal was to save at least EUR 250 000 and that this was exceeded. On the basis of the latest figures, a saving of EUR 616 000 has been achieved for this route in 2017. This is therefore more than a doubling of the target envisaged. For this year, 2018, 17 additional common purchase files have been selected, which should make it possible to achieve and exceed the target in 2018. Trajector 6, the second stage for which I myself am responsible, aims to rewrite the supporting processes in the federal public office with a view to achieving an optimal service at a lower cost. Structural measures have been taken. At the legislative level, the Strategy and Support SPF was created by the Royal Decree of 22 February 2017, which entered into force on 1 March 2017. This FPS absorbs three existing horizontal FPS: the Personnel and Organisation FPS, the Budget and Management Control FPS and Fidict, and the Empreva, Selor and Fed+ services. At the organizational level, the structure is definitively endorsed. All Directorates-General have finalized their catalogue of services and products and their organization chart. Thus, the Customer Steering Committee is operational as an advisory body.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u11	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u12	It is not for me to make any promises or not to do so, but I will ask you, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u13	(...) I do not think that is correct. I read that the report was put out of your hands and on your proposal in the Council of Ministers. I quote the notifications of the Council of Ministers. I'm asking you about that. That question was not put last minute either. As a Member of Parliament, shouldn't I start a public administration procedure to look at that report?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u14	Your question dates from yesterday and is therefore on time according to the rules. That's true, but she did date from yesterday. So I'm gonna have to apply a little nuance. Furthermore, I do not decide what is or is not made public of the underlying pieces of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u15	Apparently, the question was yesterday after all. I've been doing so much over the past 24 hours that it seems like it's been a lot longer, but still. Questions have been asked about the redesign project and its state of affairs for so long. There's a report note and it can't be released immediately. I will have that matter settled in the Conference of Presidents tomorrow, but I regret it. I don't know about you, but when I'm working on a parade horse, I don't usually even have to be asked to report on it or show it. I'd say, "Look how well we're doing."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u16	I've reported to you about the parade horse within my jurisdiction, Mr. Calvo. You know how politics is. You yourself would not accept colleagues walking with your files.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u17	That brings me to my second point. In the process that, I believe, is still fascinating and necessary, there remains a problem in the direction. I put a question to the Prime Minister on this matter a few months ago. He sent it to you. I am questioning you and you say that you do not have the authority to do so, even if the Council of Ministers says that the report comes from your hand and is initiated by you. Today, once again, I only get answers about the return and the measures within your own routes. It makes me ambushed. I do not think that this is a correct way of dealing with Parliament. So I will now ask the Prime Minister another question, but I will quote all the quotes, from the first to the last... In fact, you say that what the Prime Minister says is wrong, because he is competent. He's in front of those meetings. If I confront you with the fact that he's coordinating...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u18	The report will make clear what I said and what I did not say. I didn't say the Prime Minister wasn't telling the truth. You must be careful what interpretation you give. You're turning it into an intention process.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u19	My interpretation wasn't that scratchy. What I said...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u20	You have come to say something to the report which I do not think is correct. That's not what I said. I said I'm reporting. That's right. I also initiated the program. No problem at all. However, I also say that you have to understand that this may be difficult, but try to understand that one cannot be responsible if one is not competent. I'm not competent for all federal governments. I am responsible for the Staff Regulations, for the situation of officials, and for the FPS under my jurisdiction. Together with my colleague Wilmès and colleague De Croo, I have managed to make six entities one entity, which is already a great step forward. That means a lot to the federal government. That's the first project I've led. The second project involves more general management of purchasing policy. Also there we do the realizations that are possible. But again, it is very difficult as minister with the power to impose some of one federal government affairs on other federal government institutions. That's not up to me. That's up to every minister on his own.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u21	For the record, I didn't say you said the Prime Minister was lying. I didn't say that earlier, and I'm certainly not saying that now. I am simply saying that he has forwarded me to you on the coordination of the redesign. You say today for the second time that the Prime Minister is coordinating and running that meeting. I assumed something had changed because I found out you were bringing the report. So I drew the, not illogical, conclusion that you had taken control of the coordination. If the Prime Minister still coordinates it, I do not, of course, personally blame you for not steering everything and for being reluctant to report on the other parts. I can live with that. What I cannot live with is that, in the end, no one seems to coordinate the whole process, and that the Prime Minister does not give at home when I question him about it. I didn't invent that. You know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u22	I think this is a very good discussion. Of course, every minister has been behind certain projects at a certain point in time. I did draw the transversal project for the government. We set up governance through that working group. The fact is that the government has taken a decision on a number of routes. It is, of course, each for himself to carry out those trajectories. We have been asked to keep an eye on the overall picture with a report. I was referred to as rapporteur in that story. I don't have a problem with that. If you want to know what is happening in Health, there are also things visible. If you want to know what is happening in the domain of government credit collection, you can quietly ask questions about it. That can be done for all the trajectories that were described. This can also be done for the added pathways, for example with regard to the study services of the federal government. You can also ask the Minister responsible about this. Nothing's stopping you from doing that. The Council of Ministers and the Government must at some point be able to make a decision which they simply implement. That there is a regular global report on this, I would say all the better. Should there be absolute and necessary coordination? You say that. It is good that we keep an overview of where we stand.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u23	In any case, I would rather be a coordinator than a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u24	Again, one has to be competent. It is difficult to be responsible for something that is not competent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u25	That's cleared up on this one. You take the lead in the report because you are rapporteur. Ministers are responsible for their routes. The Prime Minister coordinates. I conclude from that that, if I want to look at the report, I must address myself to the Prime Minister. So I'm supposed to talk to him about coordination? I just want to know who's coordinating.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u26	If your question is whether you can look at the report, then I think you should at least ask the Prime Minister that question. He decides on the Council of Ministers' report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u27	The Prime Minister coordinates. I will address the Prime Minister. We're not in a football stadium. This isn't the sexiest theme either. I'm not looking for polemics about this. I think this is a very relevant issue. I think it is important that this is handled politically seriously. The credibility of the public sector vis-à-vis the public and the civil servants themselves, at a time when there is a great deal of talk about savings, could be a constructive process. I have the impression that this is not going well enough, partly because of a lack of coordination. I don't want to personally blame you for this, but I do blame the government as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u28	Mr President, I thank the Minister and my colleague for this interesting debate. Minister, I come back to the officials for whom you said you were competent. I understand that a structural measure was taken with the merger of three FPS. On the other hand, I have not heard an answer to my questions about the working conditions of these officials.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u29	There is no change, except perhaps where they will do their work. The working regulations were approved by the trade unions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u30	For once, I wasn't going to sue you for intent. If a working regulation has been approved, there have been amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u31	There was no change.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u32	You are responsible for public servants, but also for the service provided to the public. There is also no change.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u33	I am not responsible for the service to the population, I am responsible for my part of the BOSA FPS vis-à-vis the users, who are the other FPS and the state agencies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u34	So you're sending me back to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u35	BOSA's clients are the other FPS and state agencies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u37	Since we are talking about spring, I will ask the last question, after which we can go outside to see if the first crocus begins to bloom. I've also seen little bells bloom, which is very early.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u38	Minister, I read in the press on 1 February that the Flemish Socialist Party, the sp.a, had presented a new plan to the press. I quote from their statement: "We remove people from excess administration and work that can be done by computers in these new times, and put them back where the needs are high today." A party, which has been in the government for 25 years, now finds that there is surplus administration from the opposition. As early as 2010, the sp.a at Frank Vandenbroucke's mouth felt that the government had to slim down in order to make the higher pensions affordable. More recently, in 2005, the then delegated director of the VBO, Mr Rudi Thomaes, called for 30 000 officials out of 400 000 to be discharged within five years. That would be good for an annual saving of EUR 7 to 8 billion. Indeed, our country has a high government seizure rate of 54.3% in 2015. This figure is higher than in other countries, for example, 47 % in the Netherlands, also in 2015. That government's seizure is being systematically phased out by this government. As early as July 2017, De Tijd reported that, after the efforts of recent years, the Belgian government remains in the top five of the largest publishers in Europe. In neighbouring countries, public expenditure, excluding interest charges, represents an average of 46.8% of GDP. That difference corresponds to about EUR 14 billion. Of course, the large civil service is a great basis for high public spending. The phasing out of statutory and contractual staff, and replacing them with advanced digitisation, will certainly have an impact. This will also shift staff costs to investment and operating costs, and shift to other staff profiles. Above all, it will take a lot of time to implement this and to ensure that everything continues to be efficient. I have four questions for you, Minister. Firstly, do studies or calculations exist within the federal government, or within its parts, to determine whether there are indeed redundant staff in the federal government apparatus? If so, what are the conclusions? Secondly, do there also exist detailed proposals or studies by the federal government, or parts of them, to enable the operation to be carried out with fewer staff but with a highly advanced digitization? What are these proposals or studies? Thirdly, do you yourself have a vision of increasing the efficiency of the federal government by focusing even more on digitisation? If so, can you explain it if necessary? Fourthly, what attitude do you expect from the trade unions on proposals to cut down the civil service by focusing even more on digitisation, what the sp.a is proposing?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u39	Mr President, first of all, you are talking about 400 000 officials, but there are no 400 000 federal officials. Here we are talking about all levels of civil servants. However, allow me to confine myself to the federal office.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u40	I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u41	General analyses suggest that up to 10% of current functions will no longer exist by 2030. At the same time, new needs will emerge and new functions will have to be created. In addition, around 30% of the current tasks will be affected by digitisation and automation. So we are talking about 40% that is on the move. That is why I am particularly committed to developing new competences in the short term, linked to innovation and digitalisation, with a view to efficiency, effectiveness and professional pride. Large transversal projects in the federal government today mainly focus on the further automation of processes, especially in the areas of accounting, government procurement and hr. This concerns our own organisation, not the services to the citizen. That last aspect falls within the competence of Mr Francken. In these areas, major efficiency gains can and will be achieved through extensive digitisation. In addition, each federal government is developing a roadmap for the digital transformation of its powers. We now come to the other tasks. The focus will always be on providing quality services to our citizens and businesses. To your third question, I can answer that it is my intention to support supporting and generic tasks as much as possible, focusing on centres of expertise. Within my areas of competence, today we focus mainly on the further digitisation of staff administration and wage management, the digitisation of training provision and the optimisation of purchasing policies through more grouped purchases. I have also put on the table a proposal to use greater flexibility to enable, among other things, interim work, the further development of contractual careers and the reform of existing regulations in relation to the statute. As far as your fourth question is concerned, it is my ambition to provide services with the highest possible quality and effectiveness, in accordance with the best value for money and with officials who are proud of their work. To this end, we must continue to simplify the structures of the federal government, constantly innovate and put customer focus at the centre, while ensuring cost-efficiency and helping to reduce public debt. This will enable us to build together a public administration capable of anticipating future challenges. I expect the trade unions to cooperate constructively within the negotiating procedures already laid down. They're already doing that for a big piece. At every step we take, we respect the consultation. We're moving forward one step at a time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I follow the logic, where we focus on different processes that have to ensure cost control, without decoupling them from stimulating motivated people, so that they make their contribution as actively as possible. I was amazed by the figures you gave at the beginning of your answer. You said that by 2030, 10% of the functions will no longer exist and 30% of the current tasks will be digitized. That's huge.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u43	It is not the case that 30% of the tasks are digitised but that 30% of them will be affected by digitisation. That's why those tasks aren't gone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-20-54-commissie-ic821x.u44	Okay, but it's a huge story. The time when stamps were put and papers were passed on to put other stamps, without much added value, lies behind us. In the meantime, these tasks have been digitised and, among other things, provide a great efficiency gain in the field. We will have to have the debate on how far we can go with digitalisation and what is its effective profit. A cost-benefit analysis will have to be made. Replacing people with a lower function due to digitalisation will also provide more officials with higher profiles, who can manage digitalisation well and do high-level data processing, i.e. more than just work with an excel or a word program. Also for flexibilisation there will be a transition period, in the sense that there is a great deal of resistance every time there is change. Everyone is in favour of change, but the change in the nearby environment is sometimes contested, although it very often improves, including the personal situation. Satellite offices and the possibility of teleworking are very beneficial to the operation as a whole, but also to the relationship between work and private life.
