ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Renate Hufkens' 22929 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u2	Madam President, Madam Minister, lymphedema would affect about 400,000 people in our country. As you know, lymphedema refers to a visible and palpable accumulation of fluid in interstitial space. It is most often located at the member level. But it can also appear in the face, in the neck, on the bust and the external genitals female and masculine. As you also know, there are primary lymphedemas that are based on a disruption of the development of the lymphatic system of genetic origin. They can also be secondary, resulting in cancer such as breast cancer. Its management remains complex to date. Many Belgian patients are currently travelling to Germany, in a specialized centre. Minister, a pilot project has just been launched at home. Three hospitals have been selected in this context, namely the UZ Leuven, Mont-Godinne and Caesar de Paepe. Have recent studies been conducted on lymphedema? What seems to be the most effective management in this context? Is a multidisciplinary and/or surgical approach to be preferred? How many applications were submitted under the pilot project? On the basis of which criteria have hospitals been selected? What approach has been chosen for the management of lymphedema in this context? The project seems to have a duration of four years. Why did you plan such a long period? How and by whom will it be evaluated? What types of lymphedema can be treated as part of this project and what about the accessibility of the patients involved? In terms of accessibility for patients, what will be smaller, more close, and closer to citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u3	Madam President, Mr Senesael, I confirm that a pilot agreement has been concluded with multidisciplinary centres as part of the conservative treatment of lymphedema. This approach consists of a non-invasive treatment consisting essentially of manual lymphatic drainage, decongestion bandage and physical exercise. Previously, many Belgians went to specialized centres abroad, especially in Germany and the Netherlands, for this treatment. Until 2013, mutualities could be involved in the costs of these treatments performed abroad. The change in law resulting from the transposition of the European Directive on cross-border healthcare has changed the situation. In Belgium, too, several hospital centres have invested in conservative treatment in recent years. However, this treatment is only partially refundable under the health benefits nomenclature. It should be noted that, among other things, long-term physiotherapy treatments and the multidisciplinary approach are included. The objective of this convention is to be able to offer this offer of care to patients in Belgium in order to prevent them from travelling abroad. There is also surgical treatment of lymphedema. Some proponents of this approach regret that the pilot project is limited to conservative treatment. However, it should be stressed that surgical treatment has long been specifically reimbursed under the health benefits nomenclature. There is therefore no question of discrimination. A total of eight hospitals introduced a case file. Logically, the evaluation criteria used to judge these files relate mainly to the experience and specific expertise in the multidisciplinary conservative treatment of lymphedema, the clinical and scientific experience of the physician in charge and the coordinator, the theoretical and practical experience of the other therapists on the team, the number of patients that the centre has treated in previous years following the conservative approach and related results, the training of peripheral physiotherapists who follow patients at home after their intensive treatment phase at the local centres and the specific infrastructure available for the conservative treatment of lymphedema. It was possible to conclude the agreement with three to five centres. The agreement was concluded with three centres with the highest evaluation score, including one in Wallonia, one in Brussels and one in Flanders. The three centres selected were the only ones with a score greater than 50/100. The other centres obtained a minimum of 20 points of less than 100 points than the selected centres. You know how important I am to the concentration of expertise rather than the dilution of it, for the benefit of the patient. I believe that a four-year period is not exaggerated for a pilot phase. An in-depth statistical evaluation of the Convention will be carried out not only at the end of the pilot phase, but also in an interim manner already after two years, on the basis of the data which the centres will record uniformly. The registration period must be long enough to be able to draw conclusions based on the evaluation. You're asking me who's going to do the evaluation. A Council of Understanding shall be established within the framework of the Convention. It is composed of members of the College of Medical Directors and the heads of the centres. This Council of Understanding is responsible for the evaluation. The convention is intended for patients with a moderate or severe form of lymphedema requiring multidisciplinary treatment as well as certain interventions which are currently not sufficiently covered by the reimbursements provided for in the nomenclature. The edema must be at an advanced stage of gravity. There must be a minimum volume increase of the affected body part in order to qualify for a refund. This 10% minimum is knowingly maintained at a small percentage so as not to exclude in advance some patients for whom intensive multidisciplinary treatment is nevertheless useful. Centres will be asked to reserve treatment for patients who need it most. People with lymphedema are also considered with the presence of a clear lymphatic component. One of the tasks of the above-mentioned agreement Council is to specify the medical criteria for inclusion on the basis of the experiences gained under the pilot project. Finally, you ask me questions about the accessibility of patient centres. In this regard, I can answer that patients are, in principle, treated at the centre for a few consecutive days. If a patient's situation so warrants, treatment may be given to the hospital as part of a hospitalisation but, in principle, post-treatment is outpatient. These are my answers to all of Mr Senesael's questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u4	I was going to tell you, Madam Minister. These are specific answers to all the questions that have been asked! Thank you. You will allow me to review them carefully and calmly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u5	Especially calm down!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u6	I think that is indeed necessary!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u7	Minister, TDA/H or attention deficit disorder with or without hyperactivity affects about 96,000 children under the age of 14 in Belgium. This disorder causes difficulties for children in inhibiting and controlling ideas, gestures, behaviours and emotions. These children may be highly distracted; they may find it difficult to concentrate, assimilate information, and are more often impulsive and skin-rich. These disorders can have a major impact on these children, their learning and their evolution. These children therefore need adequate care and infrastructure. However, it appears that, at present in Belgium, their supervision is far from sufficient. Even if I do not mention the case of school, which is indispensable but not within our competence, these children need to be properly cared for in all other aspects of their lives. Minister, what is the psycho-medical supervision offered to these children? Is medical treatment offered to them? If so, how effective is it? Is this treatment fully reimbursed? How could the supervision of these children be further improved to enable them to become even more integrated into society?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u8	Mrs Ben Hamou, you are dealing with a major public health problem. From May 2016 to the end of 2017, I funded a pilot project in all mental health networks for children and adolescents. Within each network, an expert on Attention Deficit Disorders with Hyperactivity was assigned to promote care channels for children and adolescents with this deficiency disorder. In addition, a survey was carried out among all the partners involved, in order to analyse regional differences and consider what solutions could be put in place to improve care. These experts have also developed a tool that includes recommendations for the management and diagnosis of attention deficit disorders with hyperactivity. This instrument, which includes many tools, will be finalized and widely disseminated to all partners in the first half of this year. Although funding for the pilot project has been completed, the aim of the coordinators of each network in mental health for children and adolescents will be to disseminate as widely as possible the many tools for patients, parents, general practitioners, psycho-medical-social centres and health promotion centres in schools and teachers, which have been developed as part of this project. In addition, we are currently evaluating the possibility of organising a day of study on this topic in the course of 2018 which involves many actors. The opinions of the Higher Health Council and all relevant studies on the treatment and diagnosis of attention deficit disorder with hyperactivity have obviously been taken into account in the drafting of recommendations for experts on the diagnosis of this disorder. Non-drug alternatives should be preferred if possible. It is important that children who absolutely do not need medicines do not take them in order to avoid side effects as much as possible, which are far from anodizing. Of course, care must be taken to ensure that there is an appropriate period of prescription. Finally, for details on the current refund, I would advise you to refer to my answer to Ms. Van Camp's written question. I can communicate it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u9	Minister, thank you for these answers. I would like to receive your reply to Mrs. Yoleen Van Camp. Thank you for that information. I'm glad to hear that you're taking the problem seriously and arm-to-body. It is important that parents, patients and teachers are informed about this issue. That was not the case in the past. I am very enthusiastic about your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u10	Minister, an international study has recently shown that regular, high-dose intake of ibuprofen will lead to hormonal disruption in men. The molecule would disrupt the production of testosterone and sperm. Medicines containing the ibuprofen molecule are generally used in the short term. On the other hand, in sports circles, consumption appears to be much more regular, if not excessive. The results of the study showed that men who had taken high-dose ibuprofen had a testosterone deficiency usually found in older men. The lack of this sexual hormone is thus compensated by an overproductivity of the pituitary gland which, in the long term, may end up in burn-out, causing in this way a collapse of testosterone, but also bone or psychological problems. The results of the study should focus on the consequences in terms of female fertility. For the moment, everyone has a tablet of painkillers in their bag. In the world of sport, coaches often prescribe them to their young players to resist shocks. While painkillers cause long-term sterility problems for men and women, this is a real public health problem that needs to be given special attention. Minister, what do you think of this study? Have you known any other results? What will be the follow-up to this survey, especially for women, and within what time frame? Could an awareness-raising campaign be envisaged for the use of these painkillers at too high doses, particularly among athletes? Could other painkillers, not harmful to health, be suggested to consumers? Do you know if other common medicines, delivered without prescription, have consequences in terms of male and female sterility?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u11	Mrs. Ben Hamou, yes, I have read the study you are referring to. It was conducted in Denmark with 31 healthy men, 14 taking ibuprofen and 17 placebo. This study suggests that ibuprofen at a daily dose of 1200 mg for six weeks would affect testicular function. However, the results show that, although the testosterone level is reduced, it remains in the standard. Be aware that ibuprofen, like all authorised medicinal products, is continuously monitored for pharmacovigilance, both at national and European level. The European Medicines Agency (EMA) has taken the initiative to review the study and will decide on possible regulatory measures. That being said, a preliminary review did not raise new concerns about the safety of ibuprofen in normal short-term use. In this case, it was a six-week period, which is not short-term. On the basis of this data, it seems premature to take national precautionary measures or to consider an awareness-raising campaign. However, be assured that the pharmacovigilance services of AFMPS closely follow the European recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u12	I thank the minister for her answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u13	Madam President, Madam Minister, it has now been more than two years since the scandal of the Volkswagen car manufacturer's installation of software designed to deceive the certification tests of its vehicles by temporarily reducing the polluting emissions they emit. In March 2016, the Special Commission for the follow-up of the dieselgate case had produced a report that made a series of recommendations to the federal government. I have already asked your colleagues, particularly in charge of the Environment and the Economy. It's your turn today. As far as your powers are concerned, the above-mentioned committee asked: to combat all harmful emissions and their effects, and to focus on reducing not only NOx emissions, but also fine particulates and ozone, as well as any other pollutants; to continue to analyse the public health effects of excessive NOx emissions from diesel vehicles and to draw in particular the consequences in terms of health objectives that could prevent and reduce their impact; to strengthen fine particulates impact assessments on public health, with particular attention to all people at risk; to advocate that the European level ensure that the impact on the environment and public health is better taken into account in the decision-making process at European level as part of the effort to combat emissions of NOx, C02 and fine particulates from the automotive sector. Minister, what concrete steps have been taken today to that end? Can you take stock of your follow-up to the conclusions of this committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u14	Madam President, Mr de Lamotte, with regard to the first recommendation you have mentioned, namely the recommendation on combating all harmful emissions, as I have already pointed out, this matter is the responsibility of other Members. I am thinking here, for example, of the increase in excise duty on diesel which falls within the competence of the Minister of Finance. Nm and Euro emission standards for motor vehicles are also important. The actions of the Regions and the cities and municipalities are obviously crucial. I am thinking in particular of the introduction of the low-emission zone in Brussels and Antwerp. In addition, with regard to the analysis and prevention of the effects of excessive NOx emissions by diesel vehicles on public health, the Federal Environment and Health Administration has contributed to the work of the National Environment and Health Cell. These were the "Cities and Pollution" and "Belgian Mortality Monitoring" projects. The report of the Interdepartmental Conference Environment-Health (CIMES) has meanwhile arrived. Several scientific studies have obviously demonstrated the significant and harmful impact of emissions. I would remind you that the federal government is competent only to deal with very serious pollution episodes. This is crisis management, for which the Ministers of Public Health and the Interior are primarily responsible. Following the results of the CIMES study, the Institute of Public Health developed "health" recommendations which were discussed in the working group on "high heats and peaks of ozone" on Friday, 2 March. With respect to the public health impact assessments of fine particulate matter, my services with the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment will continue to monitor progress and support national and international scientific research on the impact of fine particulate matter on public health. Research carried out as part of the work of the Interdepartmental Conference Environment-Health highlighted that people at risk differ depending on the pollutant, respiratory or cardiovascular fragility, but also the season. An increase in fine particles during the warmest months of the year has an impact on cardiovascular mortality in the over 65s and on respiratory mortality in the over 85s. In winter, on the other hand, these particles are associated with respiratory mortality, especially in the 25-64 age group. The impact on morbidity is also an aspect that is monitored by the Regions. With regard to the fourth and final recommendation you mention, various regulations have been adopted and are under discussion on pollutant emissions. To find out more, I suggest that you also question the relevant ministers, including the Minister of Mobility. The second European "Real Driving Emissions" package on NOx was voted at the end of 2015, entered into force in September 2017 for new vehicle types and will enter into force by September 2019 for all new vehicles. The "Worldwide harmonized Light vehicles Test Procedures" regulation, passed in June 2016, makes it possible to test the vehicle in a more appropriate way for our current driving. This includes, for example, behavior in the queues. Constraints on all pollutants are therefore increased. The test came into effect in September 2017 for new vehicle types. It will come into force in September 2018 for all new vehicles. The third "Real Driving Emissions" package targets, among other things, fine particles and was voted on 20 December 2016. The fourth "Real Driving Emissions" package concerning in-service conformity and the particular case of hybrid vehicles is still under discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u15	Madam Minister, I thank you for your response and for your assessment of the evolution of the work. I can hear what's going on. Rather, my question is whether you are going to draw on or take charge of the findings of these working groups in order to translate into royal circulars or decrees important issues in terms of public health. I expect you to let me know when the conclusions of these working groups can be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u16	President: Yoleen Van Camp.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u17	Madam Secretary, even if it has been a while, the process of assisting the Deacon of Death will be something that everyone will say. This gave rise to interesting discussions, particularly on professional secrecy, which was an important aspect of the assistance process. Wim De Troyer, one of the psychiatrists who saw the man, ringed the bell. After the confession of the conscious Ivo Poppe that he had killed more than ten people, he had decided to call in a colleague's help for a second opinion. Afterwards, in consultation with the Order, he decided to declare the facts, despite the professional secrecy, to which psychiatrists are bound of course, which resulted in the process. In my opinion and in my personal opinion, the psychiatrists in question have acted quite correctly. It is very important to stress that professional secrecy is one of the foundations of good care. I don't want to touch that either. Especially for doctors and psychologists, this is extremely important for the development of a safe relationship. However, professional secrecy is not absolute, as I have had to argue in other discussions. It's not absolute, it's never been absolute. It has never had that absolute intention. In my opinion, the facts in the case in question were so serious that an emergency situation could be mentioned. The psychiatrist in question also held the necessary consultations before taking his decision. However, there was a psychiatrist before him, who was already aware of the same facts, but had made a completely different decision. He was of the opinion and is still of the opinion today that professional secrecy in the case in question should not have been broken. The current rules on professional secrecy are sufficiently balanced. I repeat, professional secrecy is not absolute. In emergency situations or in cases of minor or vulnerable adult victims, there is a specific right to speak. That has been modulated so that serious violations of physical integrity would not remain secret. In other words, in some situations it is permissible and in some situations it is even necessary to speak in principle. Madam Minister, do you think that, in view of the debate on the case-law in the file, the most interesting thing in the newspapers over the next few days, the debates between the various psychiatrists on professional secrecy were indeed not useful to consult with the Order of Doctors on the possible formulation of clearer guidelines? After all, I have the impression that some caregivers are just too often relying on professional secrecy to protect themselves, and thus actually shove away from the responsibility they have in society.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u18	Mrs van Peel, you will excuse me if I do not go into the specific case to which you refer. I note that professional secrecy is included in Article 458 of the Criminal Code. Professional secrecy is the cornerstone of the confidentiality of the therapeutic relationship between a provider and a patient. Breach of professional secrecy is classified as a crime, which means that the rules on professional secrecy are affected by public order. This does not alter the fact that the principle of silence can cause ethical dilemmas among health professionals. This has already been the case in many other cases, involving abuse and violence against children, among others. You ask whether the Order of Doctors can rule on the professional secrecy of a profession. The order is until further notice actually a disciplinary college. Therefore, it does not appear to be a task for order, given the earlier stated finding that professional secrecy is subject to rules of public policy and provisions of the Criminal Code. I agree that professional secrecy should not be classified as absolute. The Court of cassation therefore delivered two important judgments in this field. On 9 February 1988, the Court of Cassation held that Article 458 cannot be invoked in any way to allow the perpetrator of a crime the victim of which is the victim to go free. That seems to me to have been more the case in your case. In its judgment of 29 October 1991, the Court also expressly stated that medical professional secrecy is not absolute. So there are legal precedents. Finally, there is also a case-law concerning the averting of medical professional secrecy from its true purpose, i.e. the therapeutic relationship, where the holder of professional secrecy is in a state of emergency. It is up to my colleague from the Justice Department to explain to you whether the existing case law is sufficient or whether there is a need to allow formal exceptions by law. The practitioner will never be able to rely on advice from the Order of Doctors if he or she violates professional secrecy. In other words, the existing case law gives the doctor sufficient freedom to dispose of his professional secrecy in several cases. In other words, professional secrecy must be kept at all times. Much depends on the doctor's own interpretation. One sometimes reads that through two different glasses. In the case referred to above, the doctor considered that, in determining the murder, he had to disregard his professional secrecy. In other files, some time ago, facts were hidden.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u19	Madam Secretary, I am particularly interested in the second part. You say that this is not the task of the Order of Healers. I understand what you're saying, especially when it comes to criminal law, but that's about breaking professional secrecy. However, I am more concerned about not breaking professional secrecy, which is being defended today by a psychiatrist. In the health and social services sector, many share the view that there can be no reason to break professional secrecy. I am concerned about this, because I believe that the social interest of social workers and caregivers should be considered and that this is not sufficiently balanced. I wonder whether the professions or the order of doctors cannot play a role in this and can crystallize the debate among the professions. Now there are two camps. There is the camp that uses the possibilities in the law to break professional secrecy in certain situations, even though that is not an easy matter. The other camp will, since there is no obligation to do so, even though it is legally open to interpretation, because the rulings in this regard are not one-sided and do not even consider coming out with matters. There's an enormous field of tension. I am sorry that this is not being crystallized anymore and that there are no more chalk lines in this area. It is true that professional secrecy is necessary for a good relationship with the patient and to give him or her the best care. But if we never break the obligation of professional secrecy, then we can also have it on our hands, because we could have avoided things with other victims. I continue to find the issue difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u20	Minister, for more than 20 years, WHO has been advising young parents to make newborns sleep on their backs in order to reduce the risk of sudden infant death. A 2013 Canadian study shows that since then, the number of children with plagiocephaly has increased by 46%. Plagiocephaly is the flattening of the baby's skull. The medical consequences are currently unknown to the medical profession, but studies show that in addition to the unsightly aesthetic aspect, plagiocephaly can lead to poor positioning of teeth, jaws, ears, and may even have neurological consequences since the brain does not have adequate space to develop. These ailments would lead to many and sometimes heavy management, first in physiotherapists or osteopaths, then in speech therapists, ENTs, neurologists, etc. For the most serious cases, the wearing of a cranial orthosis for several months is required. Irrespective of the other costs associated with visits to different doctors and specialists, the price of a cranial orthotic can be as high as €3,000. Beyond the simple aesthetic problem, plagiocephaly is a costly health problem, and the multiplication of cases is worrying. In addition, voices are raised among the parents of the children concerned. These parents feel misunderstood in the medical profession, with most pediatricians and physiotherapists retorting that this deformation of the skull will solve itself with age. Minister, are you aware of this phenomenon? Do you have more precise figures on this issue? Since WHO's advice on sleeping babies for the prevention of sudden death, there has been a 46 per cent increase in plagiocephaly cases. Have any new studies been conducted on this issue recently? Is plagiocephaly taken into consideration? At present, have the medical profession, and the paediatric sector in the first place, been sensitized and trained in the matter? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u21	Mrs Ben Hamou, since the WHO recommendations on sleeping on the back in order to reduce the risk of sudden infant death, an increase in the cases of positional plagiocephaly of the infant is indeed reported. This pathology can, when not recognized in time, lead to mechanical complications on the maxillo-facial or cervical-brachial level, or even to cognitive consequences. When plagiocephaly is installed, treatment with kinesitherapy is often necessary. Plagiocephaly requiring orthotic treatment is, on the other hand, exceptional. Studies in countries such as Canada and France suggest an increase in positional plagiocephaly. Since this condition is not systematically registered, my services do not have figures identifying this phenomenon in our country. In some maternity wards, during the post-partum period, parents' awareness of plagiocephaly is addressed in information on how babies sleep, while recalling the WHO recommendations on sudden infant death. Similarly, both the ONE and Kind en Gezin seek to inform parents about the problem, including through their websites and by giving certain advice and recommendations to limit the risk. One example is to position the baby at an awakening time on the stomach from time to time. Finally, with regard to your question about the training of professionals, I must tell you that the competent authorities are the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answers. She's a mom who called me to warn me of this problem. She told me that pediatricians were not sufficiently informed about this malformation. For example, in the centre where she brought her child, there are 15 to 20 cases per month. This still concerns a large number of babies! Perhaps it would be interesting to think about a solution to help these parents avoid this kind of hassle. Maybe I was also thinking about financial support from INAMI.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u23	I don't understand how you can have figures that we don't have.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u24	They're from the lady in this center. I can provide you with his contact information. She is even ready to come to Parliament or meet with you to tell you about everything she meets every day and about this large number of babies who are now suffering from plagiocephaly. She's ready to meet you and discuss it with you. Today, it is also the parents who suffer...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u25	It is possible that parents may notice this problem, but there are also ONE nurses who weigh the child, measure the development of the skull, etc. I don't understand that a pediatrician doesn't know. I don't understand that! That's disturbing!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u26	Pediatricians often say that, as it happens before the baby's three months, it will pass.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u27	No, nothing like that happens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u28	It's gonna get back in place, but not when the baby's six months old.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u29	Mrs Ben Hamou, as a Member of Parliament, you have the last word, but can we finish the dossier here? The format is 2-2-1 for questions. Everyone would like his question to be addressed, so may I ask to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u30	If the minister agrees, I'll give her the centre's contact information to discuss it with this lady.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u31	Madam Minister, this question dates back to January and is therefore no longer so topical, but I would like to have a state of affairs on a matter which caused a great deal of turmoil. In the UZ Leuven, patients would have been informed by letter that opting for a single room offered the only guarantee of surgery by the professor himself. Apparently, one cannot get that guarantee when one chooses a multi-bed room. I also had questions about this, although there were many things that were not of the essence. One of the first objectives of a university hospital is to train students. So I am absolutely in favour of students being able to gain experience. I have no problem with that at all, but I do have a problem with the fact that the execution of an operation by a chief physician or professor is only guaranteed if one chooses a single room. You have also made statements about this. You'd look into it further, hence my questions, Madam Secretary. Has any further action been taken? Is that problem solved? I also believe that this regulation goes against the hospital law when the quality of care is linked to financial assets. Each patient should be able to receive the same care regardless of his choice of an individual or common room. What action have you taken on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u32	Madam Minister, I have had the opportunity to ask you recently in plenary about this unacceptable practice of doctors refusing to perform interventions themselves because patients do not choose to stay in a private room, which is completely unacceptable. That is what you obviously supported in plenary session. According to the press, these practices would still take place and some doctors even specify that, if clients do not opt for a single room, their care and operation will be carried out by assistants or students. Thus, the Louvain University Hospital sent a letter to one of its patients who had to undergo eye surgery, stating that he would benefit from a preferential regime if he opted for a single room. It is intolerable that the care provided to patients differs depending on whether or not they have additional insurance, depending on whether or not they have sufficient means to choose a particular room. Our health care system is currently based on the principle of solidarity and equity. We do not want it to be any other way in the future! But we must be honest, if hospitals tolerate this kind of practice, it is because it is a way for them to attract certain specialists to their ranks, not least because of the shortage in certain specialties, but also because of a structural problem concerning their financing. The question of retrocessions of fees also always raises questions at the present time. In any event, we are clearly insurging ourselves against these commercial practices and against the development of this type of two-speed medicine! Minister, as we know, complaints can be made when such practices are found. I would therefore like to know how many complaints have been lodged for these reasons in recent years and to whom. Have sanctions already been applied? That is the point of my colleague's question. Do you not consider it necessary to take additional measures to prevent such practices? We know that many hospitals are in a difficult financial situation, which largely explains the fact that they tolerate this type of practice. You have launched a reform of the hospital landscape and its funding. However, we are still waiting for it to be completed, although, between the filing of the question and today, two preliminary projects have passed just before Easter leave: one on the lump sum funding for Cluster 1 and the other on the 25 or so hospital networks. You were also planning a reform of the nomenclature, but here too there is still a lack of clarity on its implementation. What are you doing with these important reforms? Are you seriously considering tackling the issue of the return of hospital fees so that the lack of hospital resources is not compensated to the detriment of patients and does not lead to the development of a two-speed medicine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u33	Mevrouw Muylle, Mr. Frédéric, thank you for your questions. I understand your indignation, which is perfectly justified in the light of the practices mentioned. In addition, I was very upset by the news in the media on this subject. At the outset, I felt it necessary to stress the total inadmissibility of such practices. Mrs Muylle, as you know, this is indeed already in the hospital law. At the end of 2016, my proposal was explicitly incorporated into the hospital law that, regardless of the choice for admission to an individual room, a double room or a common room, the patient is always entitled to the same offer of quality healthcare. In the preparatory work of this Act it was clarified that this provision covers, inter alia, situations where the choice of treating physician is restricted by the choice of chamber or vice versa. Therefore, it is completely negligent to make the quality of care provided dependent on the patient's choice of room type. Each patient must be able to expect to receive the best possible service according to his needs. I agree that this should not always be about the professor; there are also very good people in training who can surround them with the best care. In order to protect this important principle, we have also provided for the criminalization of the offences committed against it. Anyone who is confronted with these practices or is aware of them may, therefore, report them to the courts. Patients who are victims may also contact a hospital's mediation service. As the federal Minister of Public Health, however, I am not in a position to inform you of the number of facts or complaints that have already reached these mediation services. This is the responsibility of the ministers of the federated entities. However, a mixed working group has been established within the FPS Public Health and the RIZIV involving experts from the field of work. This working group will endeavour to establish a framework for agreements between the representatives of doctors, hospitals and sickness funds on the following subjects: firstly, transparency for the patient on the cost of benefits in kind provided in hospital, by introducing a prior estimate of the cost of certain recordings, by indicating on the invoice the proportion of fees and the remuneration supplements paid to the hospital and by updating the existing system of chargeable advances; secondly, the optimisation of data management; thirdly, the correction of remuneration supplements in particular situations and also the introduction of a limit; fourthly, the control of the growth of remuneration in and outside hospitals. The working group is working on these assignments and is working on them. In Belgian practice, there will be an agreement on each of the parts if there is an agreement on everything, but that could be an important step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u34	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I welcome the position you are taking. Did I understand correctly that this was passed on to the Justice Department and that there is still an investigation going on? Is this practice in the university hospital still valid today, or has it ended?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u35	No, that practice is over. Mr Decramer has immediately made a statement on these letters and has also had other services examine whether such letters are circulating. Due to a favourable wind, we sometimes receive letters of this kind from other hospitals. Where appropriate, contact shall be made immediately to withdraw those letters and to reverse that practice. Last week, for example, we received a letter from someone who received an invitation to consult and said that he could abstain if he was charged with the OCMW or if he was illegal. It was a public hospital, and it was written like that. I think this should also be called rather inappropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answer. I was sure you'd be as indignant as we were. As you know, I don't belong to the medical world. My analysis is rather that of a simple citizen. This is a matter of concern to me. Indeed, if we are entitled to a specialist or a beginner depending on the state of our portfolio, that is not reassuring to many of our fellow citizens. I think we're reacting to each other on a case-by-case basis, according to the information that's coming to us. I was wondering, minister, if it would not be useful if you would take the initiative to remind all medical institutions in this country of the illegality of such practices. It would have the merit of clarifying the situation. I see that you are thinking very carefully about my proposal and thank you for the attention you have paid to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u38	Minister, a recent study conducted by the University of Vienna shows the negative effects of binge drinking on the brain but also on the skeleton of young people. This practice of drinking a lot of alcohol in a short time is not recent, but the phenomenon is increasing, especially among young women. According to UCL, it is now close to 30 to 40 per cent of young people aged 16 to 20 who would consume excess alcohol. Young people who drink binge would have a greater tendency to develop osteoporosis as they age. Alcohol abuse would reduce muscle mass as well as memory and mental abilities, resulting in significant long-term consequences. In addition to the other consequences of alcohol abuse, young people who engage in binge drinking and who consume alcohol very regularly are unfortunately three or four times more likely to be alcoholic in adulthood. If the phenomenon is not new, it is a real public health problem that needs to be addressed! Minister, are you finally considering concrete initiatives to stop this growing phenomenon? Your government has announced the implementation of a comprehensive strategy to combat excessive alcohol consumption. Have you permanently renounced it? Is a review of legislation to allow young people to buy alcohol at the age of 16 envisaged? Is a youth awareness campaign planned on the dangers of binge drinking, particularly in student settings?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u39	Mrs Ben Hamou, we had discussions on an alcohol plan at the interdepartmental conference on public health. In this debate, I stressed that I was not in favour of raising the minimum age. The study you are talking about mentions a lack of evidence, which confirms my conviction that responsible consumption of alcohol products is not automatically linked to an increase in age. I have indicated on several occasions the measures I intend to take. On the sale of alcohol to young people, I am working on a project to simplify and improve the current legislation for both the consumer and the seller. This should come to fruition under this legislature. I also had initial contact with the alcoholic beverage industry on labelling. This issue is not straightforward given the diversity of producers and the strict framework of the European internal market. Finally, with regard to advertising, I hope that the Jury of Public Ethics has more tools to restrict inappropriate advertising. The establishment of a possible awareness-raising campaign is not a federal jurisdiction but rather a jurisdiction of the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u40	Madam President, the Minister replied to five of the six aspects of my question. 23958, so I don't quite understand why these questions weren't merged. If you want to add that question to the current question, the answer is already given.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u41	I ask the secretariat if we can find a technical solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u42	The title is somewhat misleading, but the content of the questions is the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u43	Madam President, Minister, during the month of February there were reports that you are examining whether simple labels should be placed on food packaging to indicate how healthy or unhealthy our food is. Belgium would follow the example of France and the United Kingdom. Europe and the World Health Organisation also call for better information through food labelling. I welcome the fact that you are now looking at a way to ensure transparent and unambiguous information on the health of our food. As far back as June 2015, I tabled a resolution on this subject calling for a food labelling system. This resolution ended up in a global resolution from this committee. In my resolution at the time, I advocated a broad consultation with all parties involved in the subject of food labelling. My final objective was to achieve an interpretative labelling system. According to the reports, you are currently investigating whether the introduction of such a system is feasible and whether there is support for it. I have a number of questions about this. Firstly, where are you at in the investigation into the introduction of the labelling system? What is the timing of completing the research process? Have you chosen a system of labelling? After all, there are different systems. If so, which system would be preferred? Secondly, what considerations are taken into account in the final decision to develop the labelling system? I read that you will focus on acceptance and feasibility. How will you assess these cases? Based on what factors is a system chosen? Finally, a labelling system should result from a dialogue with all stakeholders. Has a consultation with the parties involved started? What parties were involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u44	Madam President, Mrs Van Hoof, I am indeed convinced that a clear label on food products can help to make the healthy choice the easy choice. After all, we all know that shopping must go fast. I have therefore asked my services to conduct a broad consultation with all stakeholders involved, consumers, producers, retailers and so on who, by the way, distribute a good range of home brands, etc. In addition, my services abroad have studied existing systems, mapped out the legislative and regulatory framework and examined the existing literature. I will also have the issue put on the agenda of the consultations on nutrition and health between my services and the health administrations, and chambers of the Länder. It is clear that a label makes no sense if it is not framed in the general awareness of balanced and healthy food for which, as you know, the Communities are competent. A possible label that would be facilitated by Belgium should have sufficient characteristics. It must be based on scientific criteria, it must be accessible and easily understandable to consumers and it must be sufficiently supported by producers and distributors so that it can occur on a wide range of products. I will remain in consultation and hope to reach a consensus on this in the coming months. Meanwhile, there are also companies that already work out a label for their home brand. Last week I visited a large distributor in the context of reintegration, but of course it was also about healthy food. That distributor is close to announcing an easy label for his home brand for which he inspires himself on the French system. The company has done the necessary research and that would be the simplest, fastest, most visible and would allow people to make a quick and healthy choice during their purchases. I look forward to that with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u45	There is indeed a need for a great deal of consultation, Madam Minister, but Belgium can, of course, put forward a system. We cannot impose this system, but we can report it to the European Union. What is happening today is that several large companies themselves choose a preferred system. The risk is, of course, that some companies choose Nutri-Score from France and others opt for the traffic lights system, which means that there is no uniformity for consumers. I feel that it is possible that various systems will be chosen very quickly and would therefore ask the government to determine which system is most clear to the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u46	Madam Minister, in October I asked you a question about vacuum therapy and its reimbursement and application. You said a pilot project was being set up. There is a similar problem with regard to IV antibiotics in home care. Is there a pilot project planned for this or are you planning one? Is an amendment of the nomenclature or legislation envisaged to allow the reimbursement of antibiotics at home to be reimbursed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u47	Madam President, 12 pilot projects were launched in January to test home hospitalization formulas for treatments that have so far taken place in the hospital. These projects focus on two types of treatments, in particular cancer therapy via home chemotherapy and intravenous administration of antibiotics. The projects therefore focus on a home treatment, which replaces a classic or day hospitalization rather than the classic outpatient care at home with the patient. A framework is therefore created for a treatment that avoids or at least shortens hospitalisation. At present, only a few antibiotics administered intravenously are available through both the pharmacies opened to the public and the hospital pharmacists. The others are often limited to hospitals and are therefore only reimbursed for hospitalised patients. This has mainly to do with the patient's safety, given the potential for serious side effects. The aim of the pilot projects is to examine the extent to which the treatment that can now only be done in a hospital can also take place at home with the patient and what conditions and precautions should be provided to ensure the safety of the patient. The delivery of the antibiotics to be administered intravenously by the hospital pharmacy is permitted within the specific framework of the pilot projects. In other words, the patient is reimbursed the medicines that are not otherwise available through the public official. We will therefore be able to draw lessons from the evaluation of pilot projects on the availability of antibiotics to be administered intravenously in the outpatient care sector. Following a positive evaluation in pilot projects and in the event of generalisation, a number of regulatory adjustments will therefore be required, including with regard to the delivery and reimbursement of certain medications that can be used at home and distributed via the regular pharmacist, whereas this can now only be distributed by a hospital pharmacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u48	Madam President, Minister, on February 8, the Doctor of Cardiology, Jean-François Argacha, presented to the Belgian Society of Cardiology (BSC) the results of a multidisciplinary study on the relationship between air pollution and myocardial infarction. Conducted in 11,400 patients over two years, this study demonstrates the effects of fine particles and nitrogen dioxide on the heart. These particles are mainly released by diesel engines which are found in high concentration in our large cities. Minister, have you been aware of the results of this study and the findings that it makes? How does your department address this issue? Do you think that the resources allocated to modern cardiology research organizations are sufficient given the importance of the work carried out there?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u49	Madam President, Mrs Galant, the impact of poor air quality due to fine particulate matter and NOx emitted by the burning of fossil energy (such as diesel) on cardiovascular disease has been demonstrated for many years. I was well aware of this umpteenth study demonstrating this harmful effect. For the World Health Organization, air pollution poses a major environmental risk to health. It has developed air quality guidelines. These are currently being revised to take account of the latest developments in knowledge, particularly those you mention. These guidelines provide guidance on how to reduce the health effects of air pollution. As you know, solutions to improve air quality in Belgium are not part of my skills. The Public Health FPS, as part of the National Environment and Health Action Plan (NEHAP) – the website is www.nehap.be – has provided training for general practitioners and specialists in environmental medicine to enable them to provide targeted advice to their patients. The third NEHAP plan, to be developed this year and early 2019, will of course take into account the issue of air quality and its links to health. We will work in collaboration with the Regions and the Communities responsible for health and the environment. Your question is close to that of Mr. de Lamotte. I recommend that you read the two answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u50	Madam Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u51	Debates of the European Parliament 23903 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u52	Minister, we would like to ask you about the hospital management of the influenza epidemic this year. Indeed, as you know, and as every year, we have to deal with the famous influenza epidemic. As often happens, doctors' unions and the professional union of emergency physicians make their recommendations to better manage the influenza epidemic. The problem is that, regularly, hospitals are overwhelmed by the mass influx of patients, while emergency workers call, if possible, for patients with no serious symptoms to stay at home and be treated by a general practitioner. It is therefore necessary for these two professions to improve their cooperation and burden-sharing during this period of the year. Minister, how are you analyzing the hospital management of the influenza epidemic this year? How did this happen compared to previous years? How do you receive requests from the field to enhance and improve collaboration between general practitioners and emergency practitioners during this period? Have you recently discussed this with the relevant trade unions and your regional counterparts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u53	Mevrouw de voorzitster, Mrs Galant, the Scientific Institute of Public Health is responsible for monitoring influenza incidence in Belgium. By observing the incidence of visits by general practitioners for the past influenza season, we found that the incidence was higher than in the previous two seasons. With respect to notifications from the field, I can tell you that federal health inspectors have also kept me informed that in some areas there has been an impact on the influenza epidemic. The federal health inspectors, through their territorial anchoring, were able to monitor the problem closely at the local level and provided advice, but also provided assistance in addressing the problem, providing advice, providing capacity management tools, recalling procedures related to the hospital emergency plan, etc. However, the internal management of hospitals, and in particular the capacity in beds, is not the responsibility of my federal health inspectors, nor of my FPS Public Health administration. Responsibility for this lies with managers, in close consultation with their staff, physicians and nurses. The same applies to relations between general practitioners and hospitals. However, the inspectors ensured that there were no significant problems in pre-hospital settings, which could put additional pressure on the means of emergency medical assistance or lead to overcrowding in emergency services. In the latter case, hospital contingency plans include procedures that include several levels of escalation in order to respond to an increase in demand for assistance. These contingency plans have also provided for a role for hygiene inspectors, which they assume as appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u54	Madam Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u55	Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity. I have just checked the dates again and many questions are pending. However, I note that my March 5 inquiry has not yet been dealt with when rule 130 of the Rules of the House is very clear on this matter. Indeed, the arrests must be developed and have received a response within 15 days of their dispatch. I would like to see the Rules of the House applied. The weeks pass without this committee, in any case its presidency, applying it. I ask that the Rules of Procedure be applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u56	The Rules of Procedure also state, for example, that questions are answered every few weeks so that they do not accumulate. That is a question which I support and which I am happy to deliver to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u57	Madam President, I would like to refer to Rule 130, which concerns the inquiries. Let me clarify the paragraph. Article 130 is point 7 of the Regulation. Interpellations have a special status in relation to questions. I ask once again that the Rules of the House be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u58	Once again, as the secretariat has just confirmed, the Rules of Procedure also state that questions must be answered every two weeks, which is not the case. So this is also in the queue. On this one, I'd like to deliver that to the cabinet as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u59	The questions actually come in order, according to the rules of the House. I would like to refer once again to Article 130. If you do not hear, I will go to the Conference of Presidents to raise this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u60	You can do that. I do not know whether there is a translation into French, but I say that I understand your question and I do not deny that it is in the Rules of Procedure. I am simply saying that it is also stated in the Rules of Procedure that oral questions must be answered every few weeks. That is a question which I support and which will be delivered to the cabinet from the Presidency. I suggest we move on to the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u61	Madam President, Madam Minister, I was just asking you about the link between cancer and sugar consumption. Indeed, studies show that excessive and regular consumption of sugar is harmful and promotes the development of cancers. Recently, a new study of 105,000 people in France focused on the possible effects of processed foods on the emergence of cancers. The findings of this study show that the consumption of ultra-processed foods is associated with a higher overall risk of cancer. It appears that a 10% increase in the proportion of ultra-transformed foods in the diet has been associated with an increase of more than 10% in the risk of developing cancer in general and breast cancer in particular. Minister, the federal power to fight cancer in our country, I would like to ask you about this. This study is challenging. Have you consulted him? What do you think of its conclusions? The international classification categorizes four types of foods, including ultra-processed foods. Should they not be brought to the public's attention in terms of public health protection? What do you think? With your colleague, the Minister of Consumer Affairs, do you not think that specific labelling of this type of food is possible in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u62	Mrs Galant, the study to which you refer is observational. This is therefore not an intervention study. The findings of the study show that the consumption of ultra-processed products such as breads, brioches, sweet or salted snacks, including chips, chocolate bars, candies, sodas, sweet drinks, meat or poultry pellets, fish nuggets, noodles and instant soups, frozen prepared dishes, made mainly or entirely from sugar, oil and fat, may be related to cancer. Nevertheless, it cannot be said that the association is causal. It also appears that nutritional quality alone cannot explain this increase and that other factors are probably involved, such as contact contaminants, neoform contaminants and treatment. That being said, the importance of a balanced diet has long been well known. We have started work on reformulation of foodstuffs, including ultra-processed products, to reduce the amount of fat and sugar in the context of the Balanced Food Convention, signed with the food industry and the retail sector. We are currently evaluating the efforts made so far to reduce fat and sugar levels and to consider defining efforts for the coming years. The advisability of an informative labelling system, such as the Nutri-Score or the British tricolor light systems (knipperlichten) are under consideration by my services. This would allow better identification of products rich in fat, sugar and salt. However, in parallel with federal measures, it is essential to work on effective prevention policies at the level of federated entities, particularly among at-risk groups, such as children and socially disadvantaged people, to guide them towards healthy diets and active lifestyles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u63	Madam Minister, thank you. We will pay attention to the assessment of the efforts that will be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u64	Madam President, Minister, the Federal Centre of Expertise in Health Care (KCE) has looked at whole genome analyses that allow reading all genes on a single sample. Instead of targeting certain genes as is currently the case, the geneticist has all of our 20,000 genes in front of us to detect possible predispositions to diseases. The KCE recommends greater transparency towards the patient. Other questions were raised, including the hiring and training of new bioinformatics specialists and the relevance of subcontracting to private genetic analysis firms which were then exclusively reserved for medical centres. In the end, the KCE calls for a pilot project to address all these issues. Minister, have you been aware of these recommendations? What is your analysis of the latter? What do you think of the recommendation for a pilot project in this area? Do you think this is relevant?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u65	Madam President, Mrs Galant, the KCE's 300 report explores several ways in which the introduction of complete genome sequencing (whole genome sequencing) can be submitted in our country. In the future, the technology must allow clinical value to be added thanks, in particular, to its diagnostic power superior to other sequencing techniques because it allows for better detection of variants with less risk of missing one of them. It also reduces the time to get a turnaround time compared to the classic test. The other side of the coin is that it generates considerable amounts of raw data that need to be analyzed using extremely powerful computer tools, as well as many unsolicited or clinical outcomes that are not yet known. The management of all this represents a great challenge in terms of organisation. The recommendations from the report I asked for make it clear that the introduction of whole genome sequencing is due to the fact that more data are currently being used in patients' diagnoses. I refer in particular to the next generation sequencing (next generation sequencing) in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer that we carried out under this legislature. It will be crucial to introduce whole genome sequencing in a controlled manner and under clear conditions in order to keep this expensive and complex technology under control in terms of capacity and cost, and to ensure that it is offered only in highly specialized cases. The report also found that the complete sequencing of the genome evokes many ethical and moral issues. That's why I also looked for the Cancer Centre from Sciensano (Scientific Institute of Public Health) to work in collaboration with the King Baudouin Foundation to document in detail the public opinion on the question of the use of genetic information in diagnostics and medical treatments, with the help of citizen labs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for these studies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u67	Mr Senesael is absent. His question No. 24089 therefore lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u68	Madam President, Minister, I have a question about the creation of local regional networks. However, all the points in my question were already decided at the Council of Ministers in April 21018. After all, I am asking when the decision will be taken and how the networks will be formed. This has already been clearly communicated. I understand that the draft was approved by the government at first reading and has now been sent to the Council of State. In that sense, my question is no longer a jour. Madam Secretary, the only thing I'm still wondering is this. It is also the only remaining question from my original question. How does the further approach take place? The draft has now been sent to the Council of State. What is the further timing for networking when it comes back to the government? When have agreements been reached with the Communities? I understood that an intention agreement would follow and that then in autumn 2018 there should be a start on regional care strategic planning within the network. So I would have liked to have heard from you, especially in terms of timing. What are the next steps that will be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u69	Minister, on this issue of networks, I am concerned that the field is waiting for the regulatory framework. A first reading of the bill took place. But the bill is just a step. There will be all the execution orders. On the other hand, it is never just a first reading and the Council of State. You've made multiple ads for three years, with announced rules, immediately changed. At the same time, as a minister, you are telling the field to move forward and put the networks in place. You know perfectly well that developing a network that would then be inconsistent with the regulatory framework would make no sense. Minister, what is the status of the legislation? Of course, as I said, there was a first reading of the bill, but it is the enforcement orders that will settle, unless you reverse that, a number of important elements. In what timing will you be clear about the whole regulation? What is the outcome of the interdepartmental conference on networks? Why did you send a letter to Dutch-speaking hospitals and nothing to French-speaking hospitals? It is all the more surprising that networks are clearly being set up on several federated entities. This seems quite logical. To take just one example, 30% of patients in Brussels hospitals are not Brussels. The geographical logic, and above all the logic of long-standing medical projects, is in some cases in the direction of networks that are not centered on their own region, but that cross regional borders. I also wanted, in relation to all these regulations, whether it be the law or the implementing orders, to go back to an important principle, namely that we work in bottom-up and not in top-down. The priority is first and foremost that the networks have strong medical projects and are built on trust and coherence. It is for me the crucial and essential element around which we must be able to build networks. Are we well in this logic? Above all, are we going to implement a regulation adapted to this logic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Muylle, part of your question has indeed already been answered. The preliminary draft law has now been submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. We believe that the Council will deliver an opinion on this in unified chambers, so that will take two months instead of five weeks. The preliminary draft will then be returned to the government, after which, as always, the necessary adjustments will be made following the comments of the Council of State. A second reading followed and the submission for discussion in the Chamber. We have worked on the preparations for three years. This means that there has been a great deal of consultation with all the actors involved, not least the hospital domes. We started with eight hospital domes and now only have four, so that's a little easier. In the meantime, there has also been some movement. Why did I only write a letter to my Flemish colleague Jo Vandeurzen? This is because during a consultation with the Länder, i.e. at an interministerial conference, Minister Vandeurzen's cabinet had proposed to send a joint letter to the sector. The aim was to give the signal that governments are working together on the networking project. Only the federal level has responded to Minister Vandeurzen's proposal. The other ministers were not ready to do so. I was therefore unable to do so with Mrs Greoli, Mrs Jodogne, Mrs Fremault, Mr Gosuin or Mr Vanhengel. Otherwise, I signed with them, too. But when you're alone, you can't send a common letter. In fact, I did not sign it unilaterally or only with Minister Vandeurzen. I was prepared to do so, as was said at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. My colleagues have certainly not blamed me for this. Perhaps they thought that because they were not ready, Minister Vandeurzen might not write his letter. That would have been a miscalculation. In the meantime, there have been inter-ministerial conferences on 26 February and 26 March. An administrative working group has put together all known intentions from the various Länder. There was still some uncertainty with everyone. Even today, two Flemish hospitals have decided who they will join. Ronse and Zottegem didn't communicate about that until today. Better late than never. There are still hospitals that have doubts. There are still hospitals that think they can only survive on their island, but fortunately there are few. We have said that the aim is to achieve 25 networks for the whole country. This is also the case in the draft law which was adopted at first reading. This remains our goal. If it's one less, or two, it's one more, then we'll discuss it. It will also work closely with the Länder in the coming months so that this networking can be implemented. During that process, any blind spots should be identified and addressed. It is, of course, up to the federated entities to continue the operationalization of the principles enshrined in federal law, even if necessary to refine them. This also applies to the problem of the very large hospital networks in large cities. At the moment, I have no vision of the intentions of the federated entities with regard to this point. So I have to send you back to your colleagues at these levels. The strategic unit regularly consults with trade unions on networks. This was agreed upon when the collective agreement was signed at the end of December. Nor should we forget that the existing legislation on employment and social affairs contains many applicable provisions. The status of salaried workers, for example, will not be regulated in the Hospitals Act. It should also be borne in mind that hospitals remain as such and remain responsible for their organization. Moreover, the fear of losing jobs is unfounded. First, because networks are not going to reduce the total number of patients. Secondly, because the networks will have to make strategic choices, for example with regard to care missions that consume even more human resources in order to be able to provide permanent care in several hospitals. It is precisely in these services that better collaboration can lead to greater efficiency in the use of staff. I can still tell you that one of the decisions of the interdepartmental conference is to have thematic working groups bringing together different levels of authority and the sector, in order to reflect on the organization of mother-child care, for ageing populations and urgent assistance. These groups will be set up within the administration. I think that is a big step forward. Mrs Fonck, it was indeed in the policy statement and in the government statement. Mrs. Fonck, it's not an announcement effect. I can tell you that a very active team within my strategic cell has been working on this case for three years. I am very pleased that his work was approved in the Council of Ministers at first reading. I will come and present the draft to Parliament, hoping that it will be voted on before the holidays. Of course, this will depend on the opinion of the Council of State and the possible changes that we will have to make to the text. In this case, we will have to consult again with the stakeholders concerned. Moreover, we are always in consultation with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u71	Madam Minister, thank you for the thorough answer. You know we support your plan. I can also say that our party believes that there are a lot of good elements in the design. I have had a lot of conversations about this in recent weeks and months, including in the hospital sector. I only hear positive elements about this. I feel that the dynamics in the field, with the exception of a few of them, of which you mentioned a few, really want to go even faster in Flanders. What is now before us can provide a stable legal framework for this. Madam Minister, this is not a single framework. What you want to do today in the framework of the locoregional networks is perfectly in line with what Flanders wants to do with the demarcation of the first-line zones and the regional care zones. It is also in line with the areas of mental health that have now become a little larger. In doing so, one can arrive at a beautiful contiguous area within that demarcation for the care actors, both mental health and the first line and the second line. In our opinion, we can achieve a much better quality care, which should always be the objective. So we have a partner in this story.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u72	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. We'll see about the calendar. You didn't say anything about the execution orders. I imagine they will come very quickly to complete the bill. There are consultations and I would like to draw your attention, within the framework of these, so that the actors concerned, as a matter of principle, are not forgotten. There are hospitals, doctors, but also nurses, who represent the greatest strength in numbers in hospitals. I will keep your opening to discuss one or the other additional network. This seems important to me in view of the Brussels reality. You did not say a word about networks that could affect several Regions and that would not stop at the level of the limit of a single Region, but it seems to me...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u73	It's not a problem. You say that 30% of patients in Brussels hospitals are not Brussels. There's no problem. Brussels is the capital. It is a bilingual capital area. So that can work together. Brussels hospitals can network with Flemish or Walloon hospitals. There is no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u74	It is necessary to set up networks involving two or even three regions. I can quote from discussions that are advanced and positive, which do not concern Brussels but the Wallonia-Flandre partner networks. Personally, I find this initiative very positive. I therefore insist that the framework be flexible enough to allow, not to impose networks, but to stick to the ground and its priority, namely, first and foremost, networks built around medical projects that are made in trust and coherence. I was aware of the CIN working group and thank you for reminding you of its existence. As far as local and regional networks are concerned, I would like to stress here that university hospitals should not be forgotten. These hospitals use tertiary referencing, but at the same time they must be able to be integrated into the locoregional networks. This is good governance at the hospital level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u75	Mrs Fonck, it is obvious that they are also in locoregional networks. If not, how do you want doctors and nurses to train in university hospitals? No abdominal surgeon could operate on an ordinary appendicitis. Secondly, you may forget that I can only steer two things, namely funding and programming. Recognition is a competence of the Länder. It is the regional ministers, including your Minister Mrs Greoli, who will say yes or no to the recognition of a somewhat cross-border network, if we can talk about this in Belgium. The Land Ministers must recognise the networks. This recognition can only be obtained with the agreement of the Flemish or Walloon competent minister. I wish to express my collective opinion: what does not fall within my competence, I will not do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u76	Mrs Fonck, would you like to add one last word?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u77	Certain obvious things are not necessarily translated into the bill. We will look at the content of your bill with respect to the various points that I have put forward. We will see if it confirms your claims, whether it allows flexibility and networking at the level of several federated entities. We will also look at the integration of university hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u78	Madam Minister, studies show that our country counts quite a lot of physicists and logopedists. For example, when it comes to the number of logopedists per inhabitant, we are in fourth place worldwide in terms of the number of physicists per inhabitant. Among other things, the Christian Mutualities have launched the question of whether we should do something about this situation through regulation, for example a binding entrance examination. This proposal was welcomed by Axxon, the professional association of physicists. There is also a sharp increase in the number of logopedists, as is the expenditure on this subject. Already in the convention between sickness funds and logopedists for 2018-2019, it was agreed that a solution for the abundance of logopedists should be sought. In short, the demand to limit inflow is indeed alive. Madam Secretary, you are not responsible for organising orientation tests, the history of which is well known. Nevertheless, I would like to know what your position is as a federal minister, given that it is precisely in the convention between sickness funds and logopedists that that line of thinking needs to be explored. I understood that the administration would look at the layout of a land register for the purposes of the planning of logopedists on the basis of their level of activity. At a previous committee meeting, you explained how far you were going with the medical planning of the physicists, which you are working on and which I hope will be clarified soon. What is your position on the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u79	Mrs Muylle, I have indeed asked for expression verbis to treat both sectors, i.e. kinesitherapy and speech therapy, as a priority by the Planning Committee on Medical Offerings of the Public Health Office. It is advisable to await the reports of the working groups dealing with these sectors before taking any decisions. The possibility of limiting entry into studies is a competence of the Department of Education of the Communities. For the speech therapy, the discussion will soon result in the presentation of a vision for the future. The work of the working group will be finalised in the course of next month, i.e. May 2018, after which the plenary meeting of the Planning Committee can validate the report. It can only be published afterwards. For kinesi therapy, the work takes a little more time, given the large number of data to be provided and analysed. We can only make recommendations. It is up to the Communities to hold the debate. It is clear that there are huge numbers of logopedists and physiotherapists trained in our colleges with immense plethora as a result. I would remind you that former Minister Vandenbroucke at the time took measures to change the situation through a financial stimulus to kinesis. We already have experience with that. In future, we must avoid the creation of plethora, which also leads to tensions on the ground and possibly over-consumption.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u80	Madam Minister, I will come back to this when the results of the report are available, at the end of May or early June.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u81	Madam Minister, I do not have a great deal of thought about mental health, but I have two specific questions about the state of affairs. Today, at the federal level, you are dealing with two important issues in the context of mental health. Firstly, an important issue is the reimbursement, which was also very explicitly stated in your policy letter for this year, as well as the way in which the planned EUR 22.5 million could be used. In your policy paper, you clearly stated that you would focus on patients with moderate mental illness. You quoted 1 October 2018 as the starting date. Where are the work today? Have you delineated the group yet? How will you organise business by 1 October 2018? Shall we get that date? Secondly, what is the state of recognition of the professions in mental health care, particularly psychologists and orthopedagogists? You've confirmed here a few times that the federal council is doing a good job. I understood that we could expect the first recognition this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u82	Mrs Muylle, as you pointed out, concerns one of the first subjects dealt with by the Federal Council for Mental Health Care Occupations, the necessary criteria for the recognition of clinical psychologists and clinical orthopedagogues. Since its creation, the Council has worked hard on these opinions in various working groups. The results were presented in plenary on 8 February and adopted unanimously. I expect to receive the first advice for these two health professions, clinical psychologist and clinical orthopedagogic, in the coming weeks. After that, it is important to distil out new regulations quickly and properly. For the first step in the financing of psychological care, which is a step further in the first line of action, this year's budget provides for an amount of EUR 22.5 million. There are still discussions within the government on the modalities of reimbursement, but the various stakeholders have of course been consulted in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u83	Madam Minister, may I come back to the first point so that royal decisions will be issued when you receive the opinions, so that we may be able to proceed with the first recognition or award of recognitions this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u84	We want a referral from the first line this year, so we need to recognise them before we can make them work. We will go as soon as possible, but as you know, implementation decisions require a great deal of work. After the opinion we can proceed. If it is adopted unanimously, the work will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u85	Madam Minister, on 17 May 2017, I already asked a question about the internal disorders within the Order of Veterinarians. For example, the Joint Supreme Council of the Order of Veterinarians had suspended the chairman and secretary of the NGROD administratively; this had never happened before. That suspension makes normal operation of the NGROD almost impossible. You replied, partly on behalf of your colleague, Mr Ducarme, that it was difficult for you to express your opinion on this matter, since there were procedures in progress for the Council of State. I can now inform you that the Council of State has accepted the urgency of the procedure initiated by the suspended veterinarians and has immediately lifted the suspension of the chairman and secretary of the NGROD at the end of November 2017. However, instead of choosing to consult, the Supreme Council of the Veterinarians perseveres in legal procedures which make the proper functioning of the Order for Veterinarians difficult. Meanwhile, many veterinarians write the Order of Veterinarians to get clearance and, as long as there is no clearance, they do not pay their membership fees. Some vet syndicates even openly call for boycotts. Madam Secretary, I believe that you must intervene in order to restart the talks and thus restore confidence in the Order. The establishment of its own legal personality for regional councils would be a first step in the right direction in order to achieve further autonomy. It is also possible to agree on transparency and good governance in order to reinstall trust between veterinarians and designated magistrates within the Order of Veterinarians. Madam Secretary, are you prepared to set up a working group to finally tackle the problem? Will this working group be able to examine a division, as has happened before with the Architects' Order, in which regional councils are given more autonomy and only a light version of the High Council remains? What else will you do to restore the trust of the vets in the Order?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u86	Mrs Van Camp, it is indeed a public secret that interpersonal relations within the Order of Veterinarians are not going very well and that this threatens to paralyse the proper functioning of the Order. I am in contact with my colleagues, the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Justice, because we are indeed concerned about this situation and about the possible consequences if the Order no longer functions. However, this does not mean that it is primarily up to the government to restore mutual trust. Firstly, this is a deontological or disciplinary body whose members are elected by the veterinarians themselves. It will also have to be the veterinarians and their representatives who have to resolve the deadlock. Secondly, as you know, there is still a procedure for the Council of State. So I cannot comment on that specific claim. I am surprised by your plea for a division of the Order, because I see the deontology of the veterinarian as an absolute fact, which does not have to differ in the north or south of our country. Furthermore, I would like to point out that there are not only acidified personal relations between members of the Supreme Council and the Dutch Regional Council of the Order of Veterinarians, but unfortunately also within the Dutch-speaking Regional Council of the Order of Veterinarians, so it is questionable whether the division would remove these tensions. I know that veterinarians don't talk as much as ordinary doctors because fewer conversations are needed with animals, but of course they have to talk to each other in order to agree and resolve disputes. I do not think that this should be done at government level, nor that we should take sides in it. When I meet the Order on occasion, I will also tell them to turn the page and agree so that the Order will be working again. I think this is also your concern, but you say that everything will be fine after a split. However, I do not think that is the solution. I told you why.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u87	In my view, intervention is at least desirable. There's got to be a solution. The way it works today can no longer be ignored. It has been said for years that the responsibility lies with the Order and that the people in the field have to solve it, but it is not going to be resolved. We disagree on this, because I think that intervention is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u88	Madam Minister, a person who recovered from cancer testified that while in the past no costs were charged for rinsing the gate catheter in the subsequent period, they did indeed have to carry out regular checks and were settled between hospital and insurance company, recently suddenly had to pay EUR 125. The hospital in question claims that the invoicing software is the basis for this because it requires the introduction and invoicing of a whole day, while the lavage takes only half an hour. The 125 euro relates to the day care price. The hospital protects that the billing system is imposed by the government in any manipulation of gate catheters. The flushes have to be done every six weeks, so the price rises. I suspect a lot of people are in that situation. Are you aware of the problem? Is it true that hospitals are obliged to charge the day-to-day price when the gate catheter is manipulated? Why is that? Do you plan to adjust a sleeve here, so that patients after cancer do not have to pay for these invoices every time?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u89	There has been a small twitter incident following the question; I do not know if you have seen it. The lady who spotted the problem expected me to give the answer on Twitter two weeks ago. Out of respect for the Chamber and for yourself, I have indicated that you had already submitted that question and I would certainly answer it, but would not go into it on Twitter. Otherwise, what are we still doing here in the Chamber? Mrs Fonck, this is not only about Mrs Van Camp's questions, but also about yours. I can refrain from coming to this commission, stay at home and retweet everything I want! Mrs Van Camp, the national agreement on hospital insurance institutions concluded in the context of compulsory medical care insurance provides that a flat rate of EUR 28.86 may be charged in a number of situations. This may be done in the case of manipulation of a subcutaneously placed intravenous access route with the aim of providing a medical imaging performance on the same day, as set out in Article 17ter for radiology and 17bis and 17quater for ultrasound or Article 18 for nuclear medicine of the nomenclature on medical treatment benefits in kind and benefits in respect of which the injection of a contrast liquid or radioisotope by intravenous route, in other words for an injection by means of that so-called heparin lock and/or a blood sampling for biological analyses provided for in Article 3, § 1ter, A, 2 and C, i or Article 18, § 2 B, e or Article 24 § 1 or Article 24a in respect of molecular biology or Article 33, genetic research, or 33a, molecular examination of the nomenclature of medical benefits in kind for compulsory medical care and benefits. The sum of EUR 28.86 is fully covered by the compulsory health insurance. So I think it's actually about wrong billing by the hospital. After all, there is no directive by the government to charge patients a sum of EUR 125 in case a gate catheter is rinsed, certainly not for an amount higher than the EUR 28.86 in the agreement with the hospitals. Also, the reference to the hospital's day-care price is not correct. It is much higher than 125 euros. When it comes to the personal share in the day care price, the amount is much lower. For a number of hospitals, the amount per admission is about 125 euros, but this should not be charged in the situation mentioned. It is also largely the responsibility of compulsory insurance. I would therefore advise the patient to refer the matter to her health insurance fund before paying. We have looked at the file from all sides and according to our information it is not correct. If the witness you have identified and is expecting a reply via Twitter has the relevant invoices and does not want to deliver them to its sickness fund, she can always contact the inspection services of the RIZIV. In this way we can check whether the regulations have been correctly applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u90	You mean the DGEC?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u91	Whether this was correctly applied is indeed something for the DGEC, the Medical Evaluation and Control Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u92	Thanks for that. I'll tell you in a minute. In any case, it is good to hear that the invoice is incorrect and that the parties concerned do not have to pay it. They'll be glad to hear that. I'm trying to tweet it tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u93	Madam Secretary, I can be very brief. The law of 15 February 2016 of Mrs Van Peel and myself proved difficult to implement after examination of the legal service of the FAGG. This was corrected by the law on various provisions, which was adopted on 20 July 2017. On 28 August 2017, it was published in the Belgian Official Journal. You also announced that there would be work on parallel implementing decisions. We are nine months away today and there are no implementing decisions yet. I would have liked to know from you when we can expect it. I suspect that Mr Van Peel is also addressed weekly by people who are waiting. They would very much like to give blood, but they have to wait for those implementing decisions. When can we expect this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u94	Minister, my colleague has just referred to the context. This is not the first time I have asked you about the status of the arrests that have been promised to us for many months or even years. This is not the first time that you have promised us things and that legal acts do not follow. In July 2017, you told us that you were working on the enforcement orders that had been passed. In practice, we are still waiting for these orders! Several patients questioned me a few weeks ago on the subject. I reassured them that you had committed yourself and that I could not imagine that you were not fulfilling these commitments. It must be noted that their blood is always shed rather than used for giving! Madam Minister, can we not have promises but actions for the patients concerned and for those who could benefit from their blood?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u95	Madam Secretary, I think I have already asked this question six times. The last time was in February and then the answer was that it would be at the end of March at the latest. It's late April and they haven't been published yet. My first question is the question of real timing. What are we supposed to do now? You said in your previous reply that you would provide an information campaign for patients. It is very important that this happens. Has that campaign taken shape yet? Will the institutions be informed immediately upon publication? Is that in the docks? I hope the answer is that it has just been published and that the information campaign will start tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it has indeed been a suffering. You know that the legal framework for blood donations by persons with haemochromanomatosis was already in place on 28 August 2017. President: Muriel Gerkens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u97	My services with the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products then prepared a preliminary draft order. It took a lot of time. Following the advice of the Council of State, I signed it. The date of the proclamation is April 15th. The publication will follow shortly. I asked when it was soon, because we also know immediately, and that has also taken a very long time. I have been told: during the week of 30 April. I hope that publication will be available before the end of the month. If they tell me a bladder, I'll tell you one too. The information campaign was also prepared by the FAGG services.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u98	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The agenda will tell you. If they told you a bladder, we'll be here in a few weeks with a new question. We have good hopes that this will be the right time in the end and we can expect it next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u99	If it's there, I'll do a two and tag you all. I want to work modern.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u100	Madam Minister, we will see because this is the umpteenth time that you have promised. A member of your firm should be appointed to ensure the effectiveness of the measures and royal orders. Subjects should not be mixed. This is about hemochromatosis, but a few days ago we were talking about organ donation, for which no arrests were taken in time and time either. As the responsible minister, we must be able to assume all of our responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u101	What do you think the cabinet members are doing? You think they're playing football?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u102	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u103	You don't think we're in contact with AFMPS? Several people hold this position, among other things! But when things don't move forward in the AFMPS, you can't do the job for them!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u104	As a minister, you are responsible. When the execution order had not been taken for organ donation, you did not fail to communicate in all directions, but without result. You always send responsibility back to your administrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u105	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u106	If, for two cases, you said it was the fault of others because they didn't work in time and in time. Either you personally commit yourself to believing that it is possible for administrations to work in time – so apply the law and make enforcement orders – or that is not the case and we must not miscommunicate, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u107	I have always communicated the dates given to me by the AFMPS!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u108	Minister, we are not going to discuss this issue for 150 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u109	The royal decree was taken earlier than expected, but the work that followed took longer. I'm not saying it's their fault. I'm just making a statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u110	As far as I am concerned, I note that you are communicating to Parliament and through press releases. If policies communicated when decisions were made, but also when they were implemented, there would be a loss of credibility not only of the patients concerned but also of those who could use that blood for other patients. You told me "as soon as possible" and I hope these orders will finally be published!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u111	Madam Minister, I very much hope that this information is correct and that the Red Cross is kept sufficiently informed. They regularly ask that question through me, and I do not think that is the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u112	Minister, in June 2016, with several colleagues, we asked you about the use and programming of MRI devices. At the time, a cadastre had to be realized in order to know the real necessities. We then talked about programming 12 additional devices. Then, you decided to delete 17 unapproved MRIs in 14 Belgian hospitals and claimed 13 500 000 euros from hospitals that had used unapproved devices, although you had specified, I no longer know by which channel, I quote: "A correct use of medical imaging with a phase-by-phase extension of the number of MRI devices is in everyone's interest". Minister, MRI is a forward-looking, non-irradiant technique. It must be used more and more and it is therefore high time to pursue a coherent policy in this area. The lengthening of waiting times is impressive. In the province of Liège that I know better, the deadlines can reach six months! With such delays, doctors are no longer able to offer quality and accessible medicine to our fellow citizens. In order to achieve this, some hospitals also use approved equipment almost day and night with difficulties to allow maintenance of the equipment. Can you tell us exactly where we are in this context? Has the opinion requested from BELMIP been sent? If so, what is the content? When can a new coherent MRI programming be operational? Will a budget be made available within this framework? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u113	The memorandum of understanding concluded by my predecessor, Ms.Onkelinx, with her colleagues from the federated entities on February 24, 2014, finally leads to a coherent policy on medical imaging. On the one hand, it is not possible to establish rules to guarantee a correct offer in terms of medical imaging with inadequate distribution of the devices, and on the other hand, not at all to apply these rules. This is why the Memorandum of Understanding puts strong emphasis on the development of a control policy. This was also the wish of the field players because many felt that some hospitals were not entirely honest, which caused budget overruns from year to year. As far as waiting times are concerned, I remain cautious with the figures. It is only by using certain proxies that wait times can be measured very roughly. The only correct method is to measure the time between making appointments and carrying out the examination. However, there is no reliable data on when the patient makes his or her appointment. I would also like to point out that waiting times should not be analysed by hospital. Indeed, we have reliable data on device use. Numbers vary between 2,500 and 10,000 examinations per device per year. The increase in the number of devices is therefore not the only solution. Consideration must also be given to better use and distribution of capacity. I am confident that hospital networks will play a major role in this regard. A working group with the same composition as the one that prepared the Memorandum of Understanding of 24 February 2014 was established. The entities and representatives of the radiologist profession are therefore directly involved. This working group shall examine the conditions and accompanying measures necessary to be able to release a new tranche of MRI devices. This exercise will have to be carried out in a neutral budgetary framework, as was the case in the previous memorandum of understanding. Among other things, expenditures on medical imaging continue to increase from 4 to 5 per cent each year. It's untenable. Moreover, it is not reasonable that Belgium is still among the first in the ranking of users of ionizing examinations. The expansion of the MRI system fleet should therefore go hand in hand with a substantial reduction in the number of ineffective CT-scan examinations. The working group is working on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u114	Minister, that's good news! Thank you for your answer. I trust your technical analysis. I am not one of those who say that you have to throw money out the windows and, for example, that you have to invest in the sole goal of increasing the number of MRIs. Similarly, when you say that situations cannot be examined on a case-by-case basis, I agree with you. However, several testimonies come to me, suggesting to me – even if it is not very scientific, I agree – that waiting six months for an MRI – and I have lived it in the Verviet region – is obviously not acceptable. I would therefore be very interested to know the conclusions of the working group, provided that it does not only work for months without achieving concrete results. I'll pay attention to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u115	Madam Minister, I asked you in plenary about this, since several cities now prohibit the construction of land with synthetic materials derived mainly from used tires. In addition to plastic and rubber microparticles there are substances such as arsenic, lead, chromium, linked to the previous uses of these tyres. This therefore poses a health risk. In plenary, you told me that you were in contact, or that you were going to contact the regional ministers responsible for Sport, Economy and Health. As I was telling you in my question, it is a good case to preserve health, develop sports equipment and orient economic activity towards new materials such as cork or coconuts to create synthetic terrain. More and more municipalities are moving towards these new materials. Minister, are there any new elements on this issue related to your work with your counterparts in the federated entities?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u116	Madam President, I answered your question in plenary on 1 March. In the meantime, this issue was also discussed at the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health on 26 March 2018. As you know, it is the Regions that have the competence to set up new land using these products, by virtue of their supervision over the municipalities. FPS Public Health services are regularly contacted by other jurisdictions. They recommend that they refer, in their specifications for sports grounds and their maintenance, to the highest standards on concentrations of hazardous substances and polymers in tyre pellets to be used on sports grounds – in other words, that as a precautionary measure they already apply the stricter standards to which the European Union is likely to evolve. The current standards are less stringent, but we know the content of the work within the European Union. However, we are already imposing these stricter standards to avoid any danger. In addition, the SPF informs the other administrations of a new study by Norway, which presents a review of alternative materials to tyre pellets. It can be useful for making an informed choice. This study takes into account elements related to the environmental impact of these various materials. I can send you the links to this study by electronic means if you wish. It is called Environmentally friendly substitute products for rubber granulates asinfillfor artificial turf fields. I can give you the website. I have received questions from the competent minister, Mrs De Bue, but also from Mr Cucke, who is Vice-President. We sent everything that the Public Health FPS had to provide as information. There is no danger at the moment because we already impose the highest possible standards. It is of course up to them to make the choice, if there are other valid alternatives for new land. That's a little curious. All these questions came after a report on RTBF. In Flanders, this report was broadcast a year and a half earlier. At that time, I had received letters from Mr. Muytters. That is how we remained vigilant, because we knew that at some point this report would also go on the francophone side. I will also make a written answer for Mrs De Bue and Mr Crocke, including all the information. The Regions are aware of everything, but I do not know the follow-up. Will there be a request to use something else for the new land? I don't know. There is a need to gather information and determine if there is no great danger. I repeat, for the moment there is no danger to public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u117	Minister, thank you for your response and for the follow-up to this issue. It seems to me that there is an opportunity to use other materials, notoriously devoid of any harmful substance. Land wear and tear obviously plays a role and is caused by falls or spitting. It is therefore necessary to experiment with a very wide spectrum. In any case, I am pleased that the Regions and the municipalities have seized the matter. A good collective work can be done in this case. I am, of course, interested in the Norwegian study.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u118	Minister, we have already had an exchange in plenary, so I will not repeat all the arguments put forward on this occasion. I am referring to your royal decree on changes in nomenclatures and reimbursements of senological balances, particularly in the context of individual screenings. I told you to see positive things. But there is clearly a problem with women under the age of 45 whose breast cancer risk is not the highest although it is more important than the general average. Women at very high risk are always entitled to a special refund. There were other things to ask. We remember that the MR had announced not to be in favour of your royal decree yet already published. Since then, a new decree has been issued, confirming the previous one, but the content of which can only be applied when a third royal decree comes into force. I then called for a broader sectoral dialogue to take account of the realities in the north and south of the country. I found in an interview recently given to the newspaper L'Echo, that you considered the breast cancer screening rate to be only 10% on the French-speaking side, whereas it was 50% on the Dutch-speaking side. I have been arguing for years that there should be no longer any opposition to screening in the individual setting and to screening in the organised setting. Because the figures you are quoting, Madam Minister, are truncated. On the francophone side, the breast cancer screening rate is 50%, including 10% organized screening and 40% individual screening, while on the Dutch-speaking side, it is 60%, including 50% organized screening and 10% individual screening. What matters is that the screening is effective. Besides, we're below what we should do. In practice, 70 to 75 per cent of women must be screened for a reduction in the mortality rate. I would like to know where we are, because I am still worried about the royal decrees that raise questions. I recall that further discussions have taken place, but I do not know if they are still going on. In any case, I fear that with a simple royal decree, you can decide on the entry into force of this text on the modification of the reimbursement of the senological balance sheets. That is why I wish we could discuss it again. In conclusion, I have been submitting an alternative proposal for several weeks. The goal is not to track all women every year in any way. On the other hand, it seems essential to me that, before 45 years of age, screening can be provided, especially since the risk to women is higher than the average – not to mention those which are fortunately covered, namely those on which there is an extremely high risk of breast cancer. You also know that a European study is under way. It may provide new guidelines for the individual consideration of this risk, so that screening can be more targeted. This question is largely open, referring to studies already published and which cannot be ignored when new decisions are to be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u119	Madam Secretary, I can be very brief. What is the current state of affairs, so to speak, since your statements in plenary? Where are we? What are the latest developments regarding KB's in progress?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u120	Mrs Fonck, Mrs Dedry, I have already answered a number of questions at the plenary session of 15 March 2018. On 19 March 2018, i.e. after the plenary session, the National Commission on Doctors-Insurance Institutions took note of my intention to suspend the entry into force of the revision of the nomenclature on mammography. The Royal Decree in question was subsequently published at the end of March 2018, so before the entry into force could take place. It is a new royal decree, which sets a new date of entry into force. The committee discussed this issue again at this meeting, on the basis of an explanatory summary note which has been published on the INAMI website in the meantime. The Commission is of the view that the reform ensures quality breast cancer screening and further recalled that the reform was implemented after consultation with the various stakeholders. That committee therefore reconfirmed its report and said that the quality of detection of breast cancer was sufficiently guaranteed. The committee also stressed the importance of using the available resources in the most effective way to ensure that cancer screening is of good quality and correct for those who are scientifically recommended. The committee therefore still supports the reform project for which it has worked for twelve years. The Royal Decree of 25 March, which was published on 28 March, stipulated that the King would determine the entry into force of the reform of mammography in order to overcome the impasse between the political world, led by Mrs Fonck and others, who said that the work done during those 12 years was not enough and that the differences between the North and the South of the country were not sufficiently taken into account. Mrs Fonck, in fact, what I call screening and what you call screening is apparently not the same. It is true, however, that the percentage of true screening is 10%. If you add the individual exams in Wallonia saying it's also about screening, you'll get to other numbers. I have asked the National Committee on Medical and Medical Funds what their opinion is on this and what possibilities there are for improving the proposed nomenclature changes. I'll wait for their advice. Meanwhile, a European study is announced to investigate the scientific relevance of studies from 40, 45 or 50 years of age. The study is not yet under way because not all Member States have already committed themselves. I believe that we should welcome additional scientific research at European level and, if possible, participate in it. This can also be interesting for us. We are currently considering whether we can participate in this study and how we can forward the necessary data.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u121	Madam Minister, thank you. I haven't learned much more, I confess. What you're going to do is still unclear to me. You still haven't announced it. I can only make you once again the suggestion to improve what must be improved in this royal decree. It should be possible to refund a senological check-up for women under 45 years of age, even if the higher risk is justified if it requires such a check-up. I would also like to say that this order should be completed so that an ultrasound can be added to the mammography, if it is justified, for example in the case of very dense breasts. Again, you might very well imagine asking for justification of the ultrasound complementary to the mammography on the prescription. This would make it possible to respect the guidelines. I encourage you to two things. Firstly, in addition to the amendment to the royal decree for which I am advocating, I suggest that you remain attentive to engaging in a broader consultation with experts in this field, leaving the working group as it was organised. Second, you should stop opposing individual screening to organized screening. It is not right for you to question the individual screening. We will only make progress when the maximum number of women involved are screened. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u122	You don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u123	I can never finish my sentences. Madam Chair, may I finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u124	You can finish but I can answer: this is not the truth!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u125	Let me finish my sentences. You're used to cutting people off when you're not happy. You said earlier that the real screening was organized screening. Excuse me, but it means, in a very concrete way, that you consider that individual screening is not a true screening. Let us no longer oppose individual screening to organized screening. The challenge is that the maximum number of women be covered, so that we get a reduction in the mortality rate. This is the priority of priorities. We should be able to do this by combining the two forms of screening. If one opposes one another, if one says that there is only one that is true - that means that the other is an accessory screening that is not a good screening - I find that it is at the same time unaware of the work that is carried out by the caregivers and, on the other hand, it is always questioning the quality of the work performed. Compared to patients, this is not acceptable!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u126	Madam Secretary, I have an additional question. We are awaiting the opinion of the National Commission on improvements to refunds. When do you expect that advice?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u127	Mrs. Dedry, I expect the advice as soon as it's ready. I don't make other people's agendas. I don't like other people setting my agenda either, but it happens all the time. Mrs. Fonck, you just don't want to read what it says. There's a difference in organization between the North and the South. In Flanders, we have for a long time been in the habit of doing depistages, organized actions that women often go to. We have been involved as local politicians. The provinces have been involved in this. The women with us are just to go to those BOLOs, unless they're in a follow-up. They'll go individually, too. The relevant committee took this into account when drawing up the new Royal Decree. They have found that in Wallonia there is less habit of going to depistages, organized in groups. There are women who choose to join their own gynecologist, senologist, radiologist. One is not sure how much time they go: every six months, every five years. Some of them never go. There is a different culture. In this KB account has been taken of the customs in the North and the South of the country. The ultrasound is still possible during mammography, only, which is probably why people are revolting against it, it should no longer be billed separately. It is not the case that an ultrasound like an additional examination can no longer happen, but it must no longer be billed separately if it is done on the same day. There is a second reading for improvement. You probably don't like that because you're shaking your head. We know from experience in Flanders that many problematic cases are still being taken out at second reading. 8 million euros have also been injected to increase the use of digital mammography. It is therefore not a saving, as has often been said in the past. It is a larger injection of drugs, precisely to improve the performance of mammography in patients and to reduce the number of cases of breast cancer detected late. 12 years of work to improve health care can that count? There was a lot of poke, falsehoods were told and they continue to be repeated. I object to this because I have seen it so many times. I will continue to respond to that. Stop scaring the women on the basis of false arguments. That's a heartfelt call from woman to woman. You'll get the last word here, as always.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u128	Minister, this is just the application of the Regulations, as you know! They're not lies! First, according to your provisions, for example, a woman under the age of 45 will no longer be eligible for reimbursement for testing, even if her intermediate risk is higher than that of the general population. Secondly, I have recognized from the beginning that there were positive elements in the royal decree. I am committed to a second reading because breast cancer screening rates can be increased. Thirdly, you come with challenging elements, such as saying that ultrasound can always be done in practice. Virtually, you expect that if the ultrasound is done on the same day as the mammography, it will not be refunded, but if it is done the next day, it will be! For women who make mammography and whose breast is very dense, if they have to complete it with an ultrasound, some will return the next day, but others, on the other hand, will not return the next day. Those who are in a more difficult socio-economic situation will not return the next day. It is an example, but in the end, it demonstrates that it is not a good public health strategy. It becomes a two-speed medicine: those who have the means will return or pay for their ultrasound the same day and, conversely, the others will not return the next day, even if they are proposed, for an ultrasound. In terms of breast cancer strategy, nothing has been won. A lot of other things can be said, but I will stop there at the risk of being cut off by the president.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u129	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we proposed that we complete our work at 5:00 p.m. Our next committee meeting will take place on Wednesday, 2 May, in the morning. On this occasion, Mrs. Fonck, you will have the opportunity to place your inquiry. We are within the fifteen days since it has just been added.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u130	Madam President, I referred to the Rules of Procedure earlier to Mrs Van Camp, who was presiding. She obviously swept it away with a back of her hand by inventing a rule that I have not yet understood on the oral questions. I have checked: there is none of this in the Rules of the House. My inquiry was dated March 5. We're on May 1st. Indeed, the Regulations were not complied with. Whether or not it is appropriate for Mrs Van Camp, I call for respect for the Rules of Procedure, even for the people of the opposition, Mrs Van Camp!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u131	I did not reject the Rules of Procedure. Stop saying that. I was right about you. However, I have the impression that you are simply not listening. You only listen to yourself. You're really annoying. I was right about you. I'm saying that for the third time now. All I have said is that there is also something like a Rule 124 which states that the committee should be called together every week to answer oral questions. That's not respected either. I'm sorry about that, too. I will pass on that remark along with your remark that interplays must also be answered to the cabinet. Understood?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u132	We have seen that the interplay was not actually on the agenda. She must have been somewhere loose in space. That can happen, with so many questions. My colleague then contacted the services to point out that Mrs Fonck had also submitted an interview. So this interplay has been added to our question. We sometimes see that questions or interplays are getting on the wrong track. I have already experienced this with the current questions. Sometimes I got a question at 12.30 p.m. because the employee concerned did not work that day and because faxes are still being worked here in the 21st century, although I have nothing to say about that. We have added your inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u133	Madam Minister, it was not you that I was looking at, but the organization of work in-house.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u134	I don't feel like I'm being targeted. But it's not Mrs Van Camp's fault either.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u135	Madam Minister, thank you for your clarification, but I was not talking about that at all. Mrs Van Camp, you said that my inquiry would come after everything else, despite the rule, since in any case, the Rules on Oral Questions are not being respected. It's not the same thing. There is a special provision that provides that inquiries have a particular status and must be dealt with according to the following commission, etc. Go and read the rules again! I don't call the rules here. The goal isn't that one. Therefore, to place an issue and an inquiry on an equal footing is not to comply with the ad hoc provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u136	This inquiry arrived late in the Commission's secretariat. It will therefore be on Wednesday morning's agenda. I don't know what happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic874x.u137	Madam President, thank you. I hear a speech different from that of Mrs Van Camp. So it'll be next week.
