ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-commissie-ic999x.u1	Minister, since Tuesday 7 November, the prison guards in Hasselt have been holding another twenty-four-hour strike following two new cases of aggression. This year there have already been 16 cases of aggression towards guards within the Hasselt prison walls. Minister, how do you explain the increased aggression in Hasselt's prison? What measures will you take to restore peace in the Hasselt prison?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-commissie-ic999x.u2	Mrs Lambrecht, the Hasselt prison indeed had some serious incidents of violence in a few months' time leading to incapacity for work. The sequence of these incidents is concentrated mainly in the period from July to today, in which an increased risk arose from the transfer of some detainees with a problem of aggression from other prisons, including from the Department of Individual Special Security in Bruges. It is not unusual for a prison like Hasselt to be assigned prisoners with its expertise, modern and secure infrastructure with an increased risk of aggression. In the period before July 2018, the number of aggression incidents was rather low. In the past, several preventive measures have already been taken to reduce the risk of aggression and prevent incapacity for work. On the one hand, all staff were trained in dealing with conflicts. On the other hand, an intervention team was set up to do a very good job. Additional efforts shall be made to ensure that the personnel affected are provided with the most appropriate reception facilities. In addition to the internal care team, the internal psychosocial service and the victim support services of the CAW were recruited. These services are also willing to continue to do so in the future. There is currently consultation with the management of the Hasselt prison to establish agreements on this matter. The Hasselt prison also investigates how and if internal security means can be used even more efficiently and what further adjustments are needed here, such as means of communication, means of coercion and adjustment of the security cell. The prisoners who were at the root of the incidents have already been transferred to other prisons or will soon be transferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-commissie-ic999x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I can only hope that the preventive measures taken in the past will be evaluated. I assume this is happening. I hope that if internal investigations show that more resources are needed, we can together provide more resources and support to increase the safety of the people working there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-commissie-ic999x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I would like to return to the issue of African swine fever and more specifically to those responsible for its appearance in Belgium. One of the hypotheses, on which it seems difficult to make all the light, is the trail of wild boar released or escaped from game parks. One person cited in this context is Guy Maréchal, who was brought to trial for acts dating back to 2003. A judicial investigation against him would have ended with a dismissal and compensation for him. Is it correct that he was dismissed? If so, for what reason? Is it correct that he received compensation? Was there a judgment or a transaction? If so, what was the amount of these allowances? In general, what are the minutes drawn up for 15 years - on the one hand with regard to the illegal importation of game and, on the other hand, the absence of authorisation of wild boar parks, and on the other hand with regard to the feeding or illegal release of game? Could you tell me who was convicted and what lessons you learn? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-commissie-ic999x.u5	Mr President, dear Mrs Schlitz, I fear I will disappoint you. The Public Prosecutor's Office informs me that the investigation into the causes of African swine fever is still under way and that no further information on this subject can be provided at this time. The statistics of the Public Prosecutor's Office do not allow you to answer your questions about the number of offences or reports of illegal importations of game, licences for wild boar parks, prohibition on feeding wild boar or release of game. Similarly, no judicial information may be provided in a parliamentary response, in relation to cases involving persons in particular. I apologise for the very brief nature of my answer, it is the rules of the Public Prosecutor's Office that are commonly applied, especially with regard to statistics. I think we should prefer a written question, even if I know it takes time. As far as personal matters are concerned, it is very rare for us to be able to communicate information about them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-commissie-ic999x.u6	Thank you, Minister. I am aware of the provisions of the Rules of the House that make it clear that we cannot ask a question about a particular person. There is, however, an exception, it seems to me, when it comes to a person who has a reputation of a more general nature. I'll go read this chapter again. I propose to table a written question in this case, even if it appears that there is a traffic jam in the answers... I will also try to return to this question when the investigation is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-commissie-ic999x.u7	Debates of the European Parliament 27568 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Degroote's 27590 has been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 27620 by Mrs Uyttersprot will be put to Minister Jambon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-commissie-ic999x.u8	Mr President, Minister, at the end of July 2017, my legislative proposal was adopted with the aim of including in every judgment a clause allowing for the authorisation of wages when a creditor does not pay the maintenance fee for the children at least twice within the one-year period. This bill provides for better information to be provided to those who turn to the family judge to arrange or ask for a maintenance contribution. This bill came into force on 1 September 2017, just over a year ago. Minister, how is this change of law experienced by the courts? Is a more correct or punctual payment of maintenance contributions noticeable by the creditors who have already made their contribution to maintenance payments in the past? How many times was payroll authorisation imposed by the court or applied in practice since the entry into force of the bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-commissie-ic999x.u9	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, as far as your first two questions are concerned, my services have contacted the Court of Justice and the Courts, but this indicated that they do not have information on the experience of the courts with this new legislation. Given the short period of time, the College could not organize a round call for this. As far as your third question is concerned, the support service of the College of the Courts and Courts informs me that I do not have any figures on the use of the payroll authorisation by the courts. The figures available to the aid service are taken from the applications used by the Registrys to manage the judicial files. The relevant IT application of the family courts does not allow to register the requested data.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-commissie-ic999x.u10	Minister, the bill was approved last year. Wage clearance already existed, but in practice it proved to be little or no known. Of course, legislation adopted here will have no effect if people do not know what resources are available to them to help them. Hopefully, this legislative initiative was a step forward, but in the absence of data, it is not possible to assess whether the objective is being achieved. Thank you very much for making the effort to get your services to contact the College of Courts and Courts. I will also put my last question in writing and ask you to ask the College of Courts and Courts if a round question can still be implemented so that we can measure the effects of the bill. The time span was indeed short, especially given that this week's plenary session is taking place on another day.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-commissie-ic999x.u11	As Mr Maingain is in plenary session, he cannot be present with us to ask his questions Nos. 27295 and 27610. Our work is therefore interrupted here. Thank you, Minister.
