ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u1	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we take up the oral questions. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 24038 Mrs Van Camp's 24042 will be postponed until Mrs Van Camp is present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u2	Minister, the Belgian Brain Council recently drew my attention to the need for health authorities to better collect data on brain diseases in order to carry out a evidence-based and societal impact-conscious policy, as is the case for rare diseases. This data, particularly from ongoing clinical trials and more fundamental research, is lacking to meet unmet needs in an optimal manner. The spectrum of causes of brain disease is broad, ranging from neurodegeneration and immunity disorders to developmental abnormalities and functional anomalies frequently including a complex mixture of genetic and environmental factors. A better understanding of these causes is crucial to improving treatment and prevention both primary and secondary. Surveillance, epidemiology and data mining on existing databases are essential. The establishment of a central register of clinical trials and brain disease research is particularly recommended by European research programmes such as the Joint European Programme on Neurodegenerative Diseases, in which the Public Health FPS is also involved. This health information would be in addition to ongoing initiatives under the Joint Plan. This register could be established in the same framework as the Central Register of Rare Diseases. It would enable reference centres to collaborate and collect data for the registry. It would also support brain disease research and the development of innovative medicines. Patient associations could also participate in the development of this registry. Minister, could you provide an update on ongoing pilot projects, particularly those related to brain disease? Then, could you inform us about the feasibility of a project to create a central registry of clinical trials and brain disease research, including budget arrangements and next steps to improve brain disease research, treatment and management in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u3	Mr Thiéry, as far as clinical trials are concerned, my services within the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products are in the process of establishing a database of all the drug intervention studies under way in Belgium. This is done in the context of the measures that I am taking to strengthen Belgium's position as an actor of choice for clinical trials and in order to encourage the recruitment of potential patients. The database will be accessible to the public and treating physicians and should be operational in the coming months. As a first step, the available information will be limited, but will be expanded once the European Clinical Trials Portal works. That said, in order to properly meet your needs, it is indeed necessary to set up such a register. At the Belgian level, the framework for this register could be Healthdata. But other expectations regarding the Central Registry of Rare Diseases, Integrated Care, Next Generation Sequencing, the tilt of the Cancer Registry, etc. must be taken into account. Moreover, to be effective and to allow for a relevant and sufficient collection of data, data will need to be collected better at European level, which requires cross-border collaboration. This is our goal because it is not always with us that the patient finds the clinical trial appropriate to his/her case. It could be implemented in another country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u4	Madam Minister, thank you. I note three fundamental elements in your response. First the allusion to the portal. The question will obviously be timing because it always takes time. You talked about Healthdata and cross-border collaboration. Since you are very attentive to the problem, I would like to go back to the fact that the Belgian Brain Council lists all research-related activities in all forms, including clinical research, directly or indirectly related to the brain. The question should, in the long run, avoid duplication of effort to save money while seeking the information needed to advance work in the brain. This Belgian Brain Council has now been in existence for nearly 10 years. He works at the national level. It incorporates information at the level of the three Communities. It is important to know that this body exists. It has the merit of being effective. It is organised by renowned leading specialists not only in Belgium but also at European and global level. It deserves special attention and support, as far as possible. I'm sure you'll be very careful about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, I have already asked you a number of questions on this issue. If I come back, and I want to remind you first of what you were saying in March 2017, it's because there has been a rather challenging development. In March 2017, you indicated that "given the number of patients we have in Belgium who do not even reach a hundred people a year, a proton therapy centre for Belgium seems sufficient to me". You also stated that "the first one to be set up, due to various circumstances, will be in Gasthuisberg". I would like to recall in passing that this is a project not only of the KU Leuven but also of the UCL, with the Gasthuisberg and the Saint-Luc university clinics in Brussels. You said at that time: "It's obvious that instead of sending our patients abroad, we're going to treat them here, in this center." The ParTICLe, the first Belgian centre for protontherapy, which was built on the Gasthuisberg site on 28 April 2017, will host its first patients in mid-2019. However, last January, the initiator of the project in Charleroi and Olivier Chastel welcomed your green light regarding the reimbursement by INAMI of the care that would be delivered within the center of protontherapy in Charleroi. The Belgian Oncological Radiotherapy Association, the Professional Union of Physicians Specialists in Oncological Radiotherapy and the College of Physicians for Oncological Radiotherapy Centres consider that, in view of the recent KCE report 219 on the centralisation of cancer care for rare tumours, the "dilution" of the small number of patients who could be treated with protons in Belgium at two centres, including some 60 potential patients in Wallonia to be treated at the Charleroi site, is paradoxical. Given that indications of proton therapy are likely to develop in the future, the option of a co-managed national centre (both clinical and scientific) would allow them to be kept centrally located at a single site whose professional expertise and technological resources would be gradually expanded and whose economic viability would be better. Personally, I fully subscribe to what these experts in radiation therapy and oncology say. Minister, I would like to clarify your position. Do you confirm your position in March 2017 regarding the relevance of having only one proton therapy centre in Belgium? Do you confirm your position in March 2017 that the current means of sending patients abroad should be used to reimburse treatment at a centre, namely the first centre, the PartICLe? Could you then shed some light on the "green light" that you gave to the promoters of the project to create a second centre of protontherapy in Charleroi? How do you justify this 180-degree turn? What scientific evidence do they now justify two centres of proton therapy? Do you consider that the quality of care will be ensured if two proton therapy centres are authorised in Belgium, since it is known that the expertise necessary for quality care requires a minimum level of activity? Can this minimum level of activity be reached at two proton therapy sites in view of the indications of proton therapy recognized today? Is financial viability possible in two centres, even though current projections of patients who could benefit from the reimbursement of proton therapy are still reduced? Finally, is it not likely that the establishment of two centres of proton therapy will also prevent other major advances which are necessary for a large number of patients treated in oncology, especially for patients who are now receiving radiation therapy because I am told that this would be the same envelope?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u6	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, according to the opinion of the National Council of Hospital Institutions, a maximum of two centres of proton therapy are sufficient in Belgium in the light of a possible widening of the indications for this therapy. On the basis of scientific data, a proton therapy centre is sufficient for our country, since, as you mentioned, a centre must treat enough patients in order to gain the necessary expertise in this field and maintain it. In addition, the KCE report notes that in general the number of rare carcinoma cases is too small to ensure quality and the KCE advocates for reference centres which, in some cases, have to collaborate with abroad. As for the "green light", as you know, there is currently no programming in Belgium for protontherapy. Since I am competent in this area and there is no programming for this type of therapy, I cannot give a "green light" for the creation of a second or third centre. At the moment, a budget is specifically earmarked for interventions for patients treated with hadrontherapy, including protontherapy, as part of a draft article 56. You know that a royal decree of 15 November 2017 allows the Insurance Committee to conclude agreements under article 56. Patients are, at this stage, treated abroad. A procedure has been initiated to obtain prior agreement on the cost of treatment with INAMI. This procedure is available on the website of the latter. Up to now, no more than fifty patients per year are treated with hadrontherapy. Outside Canada, others are treated with carbon ions. No centres are planned in Belgium. Louvain scientists are conducting simulations. Both centres also carry out scientific research. If one also gets around Charleroi, then it would also be mainly to carry out further scientific research into new indications that could emerge. There is more and more literature on this which shows that other cancers could also be treated. Nevertheless, such a centre does not stand there from today to tomorrow. First, a financial plan is needed. The construction should take four years, because I went to Leuven three years ago to attend the laying of the first stone. The budget is known. According to some scientific studies, it is preferable for Belgian patients to be treated abroad. I replied that a patient who would be treated in Leuven will not be in Charleroi, and vice versa. Anything that can contribute to conducting more scientific reviews is good to take. I also told the Deans of Medical Schools who are funding Louvain's project that the reimbursement could be included in the budget. Indeed, I must make it clear that it is not the federal government that finances it. In addition, an amount has been allocated by the Flemish Government's Minister of Budget and Finance, Mr Muyters. I believe that a sum of EUR 500 000 has been allocated to scientific research. It is not for us to finance this, but it is important for our country to have such a centre. Let us hope that there are still many indications, because that would be a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you. I would like to remind you very quickly of the rules on oral questions: you have five minutes each and two minutes for the reply. I wish we'd try to respect that timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u8	Minister, I read in the press on January 25, 2018: "Finally, the green light for protontherapy in Charleroi! Minister De Block gave her consent this Wednesday morning to Olivier Chastel and Dominique Demonte who had asked for her." There is still a terrible paradox. For a wide range of expertise, it is said that the dispersal of centres must be avoided in order to guarantee quality. Here, when we know it's a very small number, we're dividing this expertise into two. I find that it makes no scientific sense at all. That is clearly what the KCE and the experts were saying about it. Secondly, in view of the figures, I note that a maximum of 180 to 200 patients per year could benefit. You called back a smaller number. These are paediatric and cerebral tumours that could be treated with protons in Belgium. This represents 0.5% of the 35,000 patients treated with radiation therapy each year. The allocation of resources for cancer care must be optimal. Further progress should also be made on other issues and on the quality of radiotherapy care, including intensity modulation treatments (IMRTs) but also on imaging-guided treatments (IMRTs). That requires a budget. At one point, if we scatter across several centres, including at the expense of radiation therapy, this will directly penalize tens of thousands of patients. I appeal to remain on a scientific basis and to keep a major issue that is quality, whether in proton therapy or for the rest of radiation therapy, for the benefit of these tens of thousands of patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u9	Madam Minister, on 1 March last, I asked you in plenary about the judgment of 22 February 2018 of the Brussels Court of Appeal, which condemns the Belgian government to honour the commitment made by your predecessor to create a €5 million fund to compensate the victims of the Softenon. You then told me that you had not yet read the decision, that you considered it appropriate to study its content carefully before making a decision, and that you also wished to receive advice from your counsel on this matter. Madam Minister, it is early May, you have had time to review the decision of the Court of Appeal. What position will you adopt following this judgment? I asked you to lower the weapons in this case, which, year after year, has been lost in legal battles. Patients are waiting and the state has a certain responsibility because it has too late to ban Softenon as a common antiemetic in pregnant women. Minister, could we start from the issue of victims? Do you intend to pass a bill to create this Softenon Victims Compensation Fund? If so, within what time frame and with what terms of compensation? If not, do you intend to file an appeal in cassation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u10	Mrs Fonck, there are two points to mention. First of all, this is a judgment delivered by the Brussels Court of Appeal on 22 February 2018. The question had been analysed by lawyers and the reasoning in the judgment seemed odd. The judiciary would condemn me, as a minister, and also the state, to take legislative initiatives following a promise not kept by a former socialist minister. That would be an important precedent. It would be terrible given the elections and everything I heard yesterday: you can promise everything you want, it is someone else who will have to honour the promises! The least we can say is that the stop generates a certain tension regarding the separation of powers. That being said, there is still the question that you raise: should we, without promise, follow the reasoning and compensate the surviving victims of the Softenon? I ask this question, which remains open, and we are analysing it within the government. As soon as there are follow-up items, I'll let you know. For me, these elements are separated. On the one hand, there are the legal aspects, for which we do not want to set a precedent, and on the other hand, I find it legitimate to ask the question within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u11	Minister, I feel an opening on the compensation fund and I hope that the government will take a positive attitude. I will be frank with you as to your answer. I fear that the legal position and the fact that the government does not accept the reasons for the judgment of the Brussels Court of Appeal are pretexts for not making progress on the compensation fund. I don't know if you're going to file an appeal in cassation, but I beg you, for the patients and victims of the Softenon, to move forward on a bill to create this fund. That would be normal in terms of State responsibility. This is not your personal responsibility, as I said in plenary, but the responsibility of the State in its time. It is time to emerge from these legal wars, which are quite pathetic in the face of the situation of patients, especially since the demands of patients and victims are reasonable, correct and balanced. This will also allow them to pursue their professional investment, which is particularly important. Secondly, I think we need to move forward on the Softenon issue, as in others, in order to maximize preventive measures for a whole range of teratogenic medicines. I therefore come back with my proposal to place a logo on the boxes of teratogenic medicines taken during pregnancy. It's a subject we need to work on. Mr President, I therefore move a motion, which asks the government to draft a bill to create a €5 million fund to compensate the victims of the Softenon, in accordance with the judgment of 22 February 2018 of the Brussels Court of Appeal, which condemned the Belgian government to abide by this commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u12	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Catherine Fonck and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, Asks the government: - draft a bill to create the €5 million fund to compensate the victims of the Softenon; - to submit this bill promptly to the House of Representatives." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Catherine Fonck and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, calls on the Government to: - draw up the draft law establishing a fund for the compensation of the victims of softenons, for which an amount of EUR 5 million would be earmarked; - and to submit it to the Chamber of Representatives soon." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Dirk Janssens. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u13	Mr.President, Madam Minister, on June 7, 2017, I asked you about the safety of general practitioners and the investigation organized by the Order of Physicians, in collaboration with the VUB, among general practitioners. At the time, you answered the following: "This survey is part of the work of the Working Group established by the Internal FPS in the context of the safety of providers." This problem concerns general practitioners, but also all health-care providers, especially those who go to their patients' homes. You went on to say: "As you know, the objective of this working group is to improve the situation of general practitioners and other health professionals who work outside the hospital. This working group took the initiative to conduct a survey of general practitioners under the direction of the VUB and the Order of Physicians." At the time, you had instructed your administration to advertise it through the online publication of a call to encourage participation in this survey. "The investigation was closed on 25 April and the VUB is currently processing the data," you said. Minister, since then, almost a year has passed. Have you received the results of the survey? Could you give us these results? What measures do you intend to take, based on these results, to improve the safety of health professionals?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u14	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, at the Committee on Public Health on 27 March, I answered a question from Mrs Els Van Hoof on exactly the same subject. I am therefore referring to the answer I gave him. As far as your first question is concerned, I do not yet have the results. But I can find out about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u15	Madam Minister, the same question may have been asked of you, but it has been two months since I tabled my question. It must therefore be noted that questions on the same subject may not be attached. That said, a year ago, you were involved in this investigation. So I imagine that you will, at some point, look at this issue, which is still of paramount importance to health care professionals. I'm somewhat surprised that you still haven't received anything and that you didn't worry about it. May I ask you, Mr President, to pass on to the members of the committee the results of this inquiry in order to avoid having to repeat a question? This would allow us to make progress in this area, because it is imperative that action be taken. Indeed, I can assure you that there are still too many acts of violence and attacks on health-care providers. These are professions that are exposed and at risk. I think we can really improve the device around these professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u16	Mr President, Madam Minister, Action 17 of the National AIDS Plan, which we must not forget, provides for "facilitating access to vaccines which the international scientific community agrees to say, on the basis of evidence-based medicine (EBM) criteria, that they are highly likely to protect young people from sexual risks". However, the European AIDS Clinic Society, which is part of the international scientific community, in its most recent reports, recommends the reimbursement of the vaccine against papillomavirus or HPV for all HIV-positive people up to 26 years of age and for men who have sex with other men (HSH) up to 40 years of age. At the same time, the monitoring committee of the National AIDS Plan, in its latest evaluation report, recommends similar provisions for the reimbursement of this vaccine to categories known as at risk. It is true that condylomas, due to certain variants of human papillomavirus, are a very common sexually transmitted infection in HSH. However, vaccine protection for non-benign condylomas is actually observed only during the use of quadrivalent and non-valent HPV vaccines. Studies in Melbourne, Australia on a population of young women and men show a significant decrease in the proportion of condylom infections among women eligible for the vaccine programme, from 11.5 per cent in 2007 to 0.87 per cent in 2011. It is therefore particularly effective. Minister, are you planning to be reimbursed by INAMI for quadrivalent and/or non-valent vaccines for immunocompromised patients in the near future? If so, when? Are you considering the implementation of a quadrivalent and/or non-avalent vaccination procedure with the public said to be at risk of HSH by also providing for reimbursement by INAMI? If so, how? What vaccine, how old and when? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u17	Mr Hellings, I invite you to review the answers I have already given to questions on HPV vaccination, among others on 31 January. There were questions from Mr. Senesael, Ms. Jiroflée, Ms. Galant and Ms. Capoen. Alone, Ms. Jiroflée had asked her question. On this occasion, I mentioned the study of the KCE that is under way. As you know, it started in November last year. The results will be available at the earliest in November of this year. The reimbursement of quadrivalent and non-valent vaccines is currently limited to girls between the ages of 12 and 19, in the context of the prevention of cervical and vulva, vagina and anus cancers due to human papillomavirus, pre-cancerous lesions of the cervix, vulva, vagina and anus, high-grade dysplasia of the cervix and vulva also due to papillomavirus and accumulated condylomas genital warts due to human papillomavirus. No request was made by pharmaceutical companies regarding the extension of the INAMI reimbursement to HIV-positive patients and men who have sex with men. I would also point out, but as you know, that the reimbursement of vaccines is also the responsibility of the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u18	Excuse me, Madam Minister. I'm used to systematically checking whether a question was asked before asking you here in committee where I don't have my habits. This is a general question about vaccination. It was probably because I did a search for HPV in the questions database that I did not discover this question. Thank you for passing it on to me. We'll be waiting for the KCE study in progress. We'll read it carefully. I hear it's late November. There is very clearly today, with the generalization of tritherapy, a relaxation of condom protection in HSH. There is therefore a proliferation of all these diseases, particularly those related to HPV, perhaps not AIDS because they are protected by triple therapy. There is therefore an absolute need to re-examine our techniques for the protection of target audiences and in particular HSH. This will be our reading prism of the KCE study. Then we'll see. In any case, I will refer this question to colleagues working at Community level in Flanders and on the part of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation to see what can be done at Community level. It is also a Community competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u19	We await the return of Mrs Catherine Fonck to deal with questions Nos 24129 and 24192. Questions Nos 24172 and 24178 by Mrs Isabelle Galant are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u20	Madam Secretary, doctors and pharmacists are in the process of moving to the electronic prescription, which could only be used for recoverable medicines. I already asked you about the shelf life of the electronic prescription. Our group also has a proposal to make it clear. Have you figured out how long it'll last? We would consider it appropriate to extend that requirement in order to have an additional advantage over the paper regulation. This could lead to savings for patients and society, as this would avoid unnecessary visits to prolong regulations. Of course, it will always be possible to prescribe a prescription for a shorter period. If non-refundable medicines cannot be prescribed electronically, should this still be done on paper? Why can't we do that via the electronic regulation? It would be more logical to allow the electronic prescription for all medicinal products, not only in order to avoid Kafkaian conditions, but also in view of the flow of data and the practical organisation for the patient, who has to go to the pharmacist with an electronic prescription and a paper prescription. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u21	Mrs Van Camp, first of all, the legal obligation on the rules applies to both recoverable and non-refundable medicines. So we will not be organizing a double circuit. That doesn't make any sense either. Now the medicines are also written on a single prescription. All this must therefore be possible electronically. The introduction of a period of validity for the prescription of medicinal products and the equalisation of the period of validity for refundable and non-refundable medicinal products are still under discussion. The aim is to improve the quality of care and to simplify administrative procedures by harmonising rules on the validity of a regulation. Consultations and advisory procedures are still ongoing. On the basis of the analysis of the technical impact and the results of the consultations, the date of entry into force may then be determined.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u22	Madam Secretary, the answer is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u23	Mr President, Minister, today it seems that home nurses cannot see what status the patient has. Why is the MAF status not indicated in MyCareNet, part of home care? Will that change and when exactly? What does not seem to be in it is the status palliative care, so home nursing cannot see that status in the home care hatch. Can that change, too? The same applies to the approval of education by a diabetic educator. That does not end up in the home nursing file either. Finally, it seems that the calculation of the MAF statute includes the costs of home care, but, as you know, they are not collected collectively. That is also apparent from my written question and your answer to it. Is there no way to take that into account? The aim is to obtain an amount that is real and actually paid by the people, so that they can obtain a ceiling. It is one fifth of the cost and for many MAF patients home care is an important part of it. What is your position on the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u24	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, in Article 3 of the Law of 5 July 2002 on maximum invoicing in medical care insurance, the King is given the power, by decision adopted after consultation in the Council of Ministers, to lay down the rules and procedures under which caregivers, in so far as they have a legitimate interest, can be informed of the fact that the patient enjoys maximum invoicing. In implementing that provision, two royal decrees were adopted authorising the insurance institutions to inform hospitals, on the one hand, and pharmacists, on the other hand, that the patient is entitled to the maximum invoice. Such a royal decision has not yet been issued for the home nursing sector because, as you said, the brake charge is requested in this sector in less than 1% of the cases. As far as MyCareNet is concerned, healthcare providers will be able to consult in the future on their patient's palliative status and on their care pathways through "member's data," a service that will be available for a number of sectors. This will be in the course of 2019 for nurses. For the MAF, account shall also be taken of the total of the personal shares which the beneficiary or the family of which he is a member takes into account. There is, of course, also Article 3 of the Royal Decree of 2002 implementing Chapter IIIa of Title III. It provides that the health care provider must enter the following entry in the box of the certificate of assistance provided: either the amount of the fees paid by the beneficiary, or yes or no. This provision also applies in the context of electronic invoicing in the third-payer scheme, which, as you know, is largely applied by nurses. If the brake fee is not collected and this is also mentioned by the nurse, in the context of his billing, no brake fee is taken into account for the MAF. So they just have to mention it and then it doesn't come to the MAF.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u25	That's obvious. Thank you. It is good to hear that the information on education by a diabetes educator and the status palliative care will be visible and that there is also a possibility of indicating the MAF status.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u26	With the questions under items 8 and 11, we are waiting for Mrs Fonck to return. Question No 24201 by Mrs Thoron is transformed into a written question. Mrs Jiroflée is not present for her question No. 24211, her question expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u27	Madam Minister, in July 2017, at the initiative of Minister Jan Jambon, the Belgian government approved the necessary civil protection reform. In this context, the Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear Crisis Management Plan of Civil Protection was also reformed. The Public Health Office is also working on a reform of the medical implementation of the CBRN plan, focusing on the biological and chemical aspects and on the question of which infectious diseases should or should not be kept and/or built up strategically. The formatting and consultation on the CBRN plan has been ongoing since 2016. Madam Minister, if I have understood correctly, you have asked the competent services and advisory bodies, in particular the High Health Council, to update the current situation and to provide advice on how to deal with smallpox and strategic stocks, for example. Madam Minister, I would like to explain the state of play of the new CBRN medical plan. Are you aware of the action plan presented and adopted by the European Commission last October? The European Commission is asking all Member States to appoint a single national CBRN coordinator. Have you discussed this with your Home Office colleague? To what extent does Belgium contribute to good cooperation with the other Member States in the event of a CBRN incident? Is Belgium also considering setting up new strategic stocks? If so, against what diseases?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u28	Mrs Van Camp, the preparation and approach to chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear safety is not isolated. It is embedded in the Medical Intervention Plan, the MIPs and the MAXI MIPs and the mechanisms within the national and international networks for the implementation of the International Health Regulations, such as the Risk Assessment Group, the Risk Management Group, the National Focal Point and the Early Warning and Response System. We are indeed involved in this, as well as in the European Commission's CBRN Action Plan. The FPS Health Administration is working with the European authorities to implement this plan, in particular by actively participating in the Health Security Committee and their actions to implement the CBRN Plan. Following the Commission's question, a coordinator CBRN has also been designated in the Internal Affairs Crisis Centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u29	That's obvious. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u30	Debates of the European Parliament 2434 by Mrs Gerkens and Questions Nos 24249 and 24250 by Mrs Fonck are postponed until they can come back, if necessary today. Question No 24257 by Mr Calomne is transformed into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 24287 by Mrs Van Peel is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u31	Mr President, Madam Minister, as you know, there has been an important work on the Social Empowerment Committee of our Assembly in dealing with sexual violence. While we regularly denounce many measures taken by your Government against women, we should, however, welcome an important initiative, namely the establishment of multidisciplinary centres for the management of sexual violence. This is an essential project which, for my group, will have to be developed, sustained and extended. At this stage, however, we do not have any guarantees in this context. As the press reported two months ago, a young woman who was the victim of rape could not be fully taken over by a hospital in Verviers because, due to a lack of resources, forensic doctors no longer move at night and small hospital facilities cannot cope with this type of complex care. Minister, do you confirm the need to sustain and expand multidisciplinary centres for the management of sexual violence? If so, how do you envisage their extension? Is a budget already provided for in this framework? While waiting for this possible extension, do you not consider it essential to give the necessary resources to forensic medical centres and hospitals so that they can fully care for people who are victims of sexual violence and thus not add violence to violence by forcing them to go to another hospital? How do you explain that we have come to such a situation? The use of the set of sexual assault (SAS) must, it seems to us, be possible in all hospitals. It seems that this is not the case. Do training on the use of this SAS continue? Did all hospitals participate? Are you considering the generalization of these training courses?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u32	Mr Frédéric, the Belgian State has in fact signed and ratified the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, known as the Istanbul Convention. Article 25, entitled "Support for victims of sexual violence", provides that stakeholders shall take the necessary legislative or other measures to establish emergency assistance centres for victims of rape and sexual violence. These centres must be appropriate, easily accessible and in sufficient numbers, in order to provide victims with medical and forensic examination, post-traumatic support and counselling. This commitment was reflected in the 2015-2019 National Action Plan to Combat All Forms of Gender-Based Violence. As you know, at the end of 2017, three centres for the care of victims of sexual violence were inaugurated: the CHU Saint-Pierre, the CHU of Liège and the UZ of Ghent. For any information on these pilot projects and their evaluation, I invite you to interview Ms Demir, Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. Before I take a decision on any additional initiatives, I await the conclusions of the evaluation of these pilot projects. The same applies to the arrangements for the allocation of structural funding for the centres in terms of quantitative and geographical aspects. Meanwhile, information on the content of the sexual assault set (SAS) and its correct use in Belgian hospitals is included in the checklist for the treatment of victims of sexual violence, which was drafted at my request in 2015 and was updated last year. In 2015 and 2017, this list was distributed to all hospitals across the country. Correct sampling using SAS was also part of the ongoing training organized by my services on the topic of domestic violence in the hospital context. So far, twenty-seven hospitals out of more than one hundred – almost 25% – have participated and their staff are therefore educated to work with this set. Of course, we're continuing. We're in charge of training, but we need the hospital's approval. This applies mainly to people who are often on duty or gynaecologists. It's not that hard; you just need to know what to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u33	Madam Minister, thank you. You are making an important contribution to this matter, which is serious and which starts from an isolated fact which I certainly do not want to generalise. I was referring to a woman who was unable to intervene after a rape and who had to go to another hospital. I was concerned because the situation in itself was already quite traumatic. I will not fail to question your colleague, the Secretary of State, Mrs Demir, to find out where she is in her conclusions, because I have heard that you are considering structural financing on the basis of the conclusions that will be drawn. I'll pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u34	Question No 24467 by Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou is transformed into a written question. Questions No 24469 by Mrs Catherine Fonck, No 24762 by Mr Daniel Senesael, No 25047 by Mrs Muriel Gerkens and No 25079 by Mrs Véronique Caprasse were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u35	Minister, according to an expert from the European Agency for Development and Health, Belgium may face a shortage of nurses in the coming years. According to the expert, there are multiple causes. First of all, the bachelor's training in nursing has increased from 3 to 4 years since the beginning of 2016, there will be no graduation of nurses and bachelor's nurses in 2 years. However, hospitals already have to resort to temporary workers, especially during holidays, or to foreigners who create shortages in their own country. Second, there has been a drop in enrolment in nursing bachelor's training. Finally, it appears that the lack of recognition of the university degree and the absence of the related salary are other factors of shortage. Minister, do you think that this warning cry is justified? Do you also fear a greater shortage of the profession over the next few years? There is already a shortage of nurses in hospitals, which unfortunately cannot be quantified due to the absence of a cadastre of the profession. Are you considering setting up such a cadastre? If so, within what time frame? If not, why? What initiatives are you considering to stem this shortage and make the nursing profession attractive? Is there any consultation with the federated entities in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u36	Mr Frédéric, the difficulty of recruiting nurses in Belgium varies in some regions and in certain sectors. This is not a new phenomenon. I don't understand your assertion about the absence of a cadastre. The cadastre of the professions of right to practise exists. It is maintained by the Public Health FPS on the basis of visas issued and has to date taken over 525,000 health professionals. It contains a great deal of information published annually on the different professions and their evolution, by region, sex, age, etc. It is true that this cadastre does not contain details of actual employment for all occupations. I'll come back. On the basis of the cadastre of nurses, it can be seen, for example, that for more than ten years their number has been increasing. In 2016, in order to comply with European directives and to train more competent nurses, we required 4,600 hours of training. This led to the transition from bachelor's training to four years. This transition to four years will result in a near absence of bachelor's graduates in June 2019. This is the opposite situation to that of doctors, for whom we will obtain a double cohort. We had to find a solution to this problem. I understand that this may raise concerns in the field, but let us not lose sight of the fact that 40% of the new annual nursing graduates come from HBO5 teaching in Flanders and from the patent in the French Community, which did not go to four years of study. The drop in enrolment in bachelor's schools was not observed in 2016 during the transition to four years. It appears to be 0 per cent in the French Community and 12 per cent in Flanders for the last year. This allows me to return to the cadastre, of which it would be interesting to extract more precise data on the labour force. Which nurses work in which sectors, with what type of status? Do they combine different workplaces? This kind of statistic would be useful to confirm or reverse the alarmist hypothesis to which you refer. This more in-depth analysis of nurses' statistics had not been done since 2013. I have therefore authorised it to be repeated by the Planning Committee within the Public Health FPS. I'm waiting for the results for this year again. We will then be able to know whether more targeted actions should be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u37	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I will pay attention to the figures that will be put on the table by the Planning Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u38	Mr President, Madam Minister, sects have been present throughout the world for centuries. They have evolved over time and adapted to the needs of society. Initially, sects had predominantly religious or philosophical vocations. Sectarian drifts in health are becoming more and more widespread today. Pseudo-therapists or sectarian movements place their grip on patients who may have serious consequences for them. This is an area that I know well and has been the subject of many studies. In this context, it seems to me that general practitioners can play an important role in identifying patients at risk. Already in 2014, a PhD student from the Parisian Faculty of Medicine Pierre and Marie Curie conducted a study to see what was the awareness of general practitioners of sectarian drifts in the field of health. [[Of the 3,039 questionnaires sent to French general practitioners in this study, the response rate was 17.5%, or 531 responses.]] At the time, 53.1% of physicians expressed concern as physicians about the phenomenon of sectarian drifts in health care. The majority of them thought that they had between 1 and 4 patients with sectarian drift in their patients, 88.7% thought that the general practitioner had a role to play in identifying patients with sectarian drift, and 77.4% thought that training on sectarian drift was necessary in the course of medical studies. Minister, do you think the general practitioners in our country are sufficiently aware of sectarian practices? Do you also think that they have an important role to play in this context? Have any studies or research been carried out in our country on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u39	Mr President, Mr Frédéric, it is true that for many people the general practitioner is a person of trust. Establishing a good relationship of trust between the general practitioner and the patient is one of the ways in which generalists can avoid or correct sectarian drifts. However, my services are not aware of a study similar to the French study to which you refer. I therefore have no precise figures concerning the number of doctors who believe that they are not prepared to fight against such sectarian practices. In any case, the doctor's role in dealing with this problem is to avoid any nuisance with the value of his relationship of trust with the patient and the professional secrecy that this relationship implies. As you know, the training of general practitioners is the responsibility of the Communities. I would also remind you that, already in 1998, the report of the committee of inquiry on sects in this Chamber recommended to the Communities that: "It might be useful to inform the medical profession completely, from the moment of its basic training, also about the psychological damage that an individual may suffer when joining a harmful sectarian organization, about the dangers of collaboration with gurus or followers with no medical qualifications and who use therapeutic methods of charlatanism." I do not know to what extent the federated entities have taken this recommendation into account. With respect to federal legislation, it goes without saying that it is prohibited to claim to practice the art of medicine when not trained or authorized to do so. I have sent your question to the Centre for Information and Advice on Harmful Sectarian Organizations (CIAOSN) so that, if necessary, it can provide advice to help us protect our patients more from such sectarian practices. I contacted the president of this Centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u40	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I will follow with interest the reaction of the CIAOSN whose President is none other than one of our former colleagues, Mr Willems, who has sat in this Parliament and whom I know well. Minister, I encourage you to pay close attention to this issue. Several French-language programs have explained this with great interest in recent times because many of our fellow citizens are confronted with this kind of mental manipulation that sometimes leads them to death. This is extremely serious. There are many examples. I will therefore continue to follow this with great interest. It's a concern I'm working on almost every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u41	Question No 24516 by Mrs Els Van Hoof is transformed into a written question. As they had no news, questions No 24517 by Mrs Nathalie Muylle, Nos 24544, 24521, 24565 and 24592 by Mr Daniel Senesael fell. Questions Nos. 24568 and 24569 by Mr. David Clarinval are transformed into written questions. The same applies to questions Nos 24579 and 24583 by Mrs Isabelle Galant. Questions Nos. 24599, 24600 and 24601 by Ms. Catherine Fonck are deferred at her request. Questions No 24614 by Mr Philippe Blanchart, No 25042 by Mrs Karin Jiroflée and No 24620 by Mrs Nathalie Muylle fall. The same applies to questions No 24638 by Georges Gilkinet and No 25045 by Nathalie Muylle.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u42	Mr President, the combined questions from Mr Gilkinet and Mrs Muylle's 25045 questions concern general practitioners' wards. I have a question on this too, No. 24838, but it wasn't added to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u43	I'm sorry, but honestly, I don't think I'm allowed to add that question as chairman. We simply have to follow the agenda and you will be able to ask your question when it is due.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u44	Mr President, I am sorry to bother you, but I am surprised by Mr Senesael's absence. I am told that an e-mail was sent to the Secretary of the Committee on Health to inform him that Mr Senesael was unavailable and wanted his questions postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u45	Thank you, Mr. Frédéric. It is obvious that if the e-mail has arrived, the verification will be carried out and, if necessary, the questions will, of course, be postponed. That being said, in the absence of news from the parties concerned, questions Nos 24661 by Mrs Karin Jiroflée, 24717 by Mr Gautier Calomne, 24722 and 25115 by Mrs Valerie Van Peel, and 24774 by Mrs Barbara Pas fall. The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 24662 by Miss Van Camp.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u46	Mr President, many questions have been dropped or postponed. The answers to all these questions were prepared. We have the answers to questions up to item 40 on the agenda. I have not yet received validated answers to the further questions. So we had prepared 40 answers for this one committee meeting. However, more than half of the questions have been postponed or cancelled. For us it will be an almost impossible task to bring the validated answers to such a waterfall to questions. On question No. I therefore do not have a validated reply under item 43 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u47	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I understand you took the answers to the questions up to point 40. So it's gonna be hard to move on. I follow the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure are clear. I had no choice. As President, I have noted that a number of Members are absent. You said you could stay until 12:00, but since there are no other answers available, I suggest that our meeting... Mrs. Ben Hamou has arrived.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u48	Minister, in 2015, you indicated that the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products (CRM) was going to examine the issue of reimbursement for breast cancer treatment in men. This would be particularly true of Arimidex and Zoladex medicines. Prescribed in the context of breast cancer in women and prostate cancer in men, they are reimbursed in these cases. However, when it comes to treatment for human breast cancer, no reimbursement is provided. When we know that the patient must then pay more than 10,000 euros for this treatment, we have the right to question the situation. Thus, I join in the distress of the sick who, in addition to having to fight the disease, sometimes have to get into debt. Some have therefore decided to conduct the fight also before the courts. Thus, in March 2013, a judgement of the Labour Court was correct for a patient in this situation, on the basis of the principle of equality. Had that sick person been a woman, the reimbursement would have been effective. That's not the case for a gender issue. There is discrimination. Minister, five years later, I am concerned about the follow-up to this issue. What about today? Are the medicines involved in the treatment of breast cancer in men reimbursed? If not, what still justifies the absence of reimbursement? What are the CRM's conclusions about this? Has the 2013 court decision in favour of the patient changed opinions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u49	Madam, there is no discrimination in terms of reimbursement of aromatase inhibitors, whether granted in women with breast cancer or not granted in men with breast cancer. Several studies have been conducted to prove the efficacy of aromatase inhibitors in men, but the results are not well known. International recommendations use the term "it is used" when referring to the use of aromatase inhibitors in men. In other words, it is not clear to date whether aromatase inhibitors have a real clinical effect in men, while their clinical effect in women has been well known and published since the end of the last century. No aromatase inhibitors have a marketing authorisation for use in men with breast cancer due to lack of positive results in clinical studies. Since 1 April 2018, RIZIV has been paying back the first aromatase inhibitor Femara without restriction in Chapter 1. It's called Femara Létrozole. But this decision does not relate to the recognition of scientific facts regarding aromatase inhibitors in men. This is the result of a wider reimbursement for women with breast cancer. The relaxation of this refund has always been the thread of my pharmaceutical policy. For Arimidex, another aromatase inhibitor, and for Faslodex, which is an estrogen modulator receptor, procedures are also underway at INAMI. Reimbursement of these drugs will then be possible for men with breast cancer. I cannot say that the scientific facts exist, but this exists in off label use, a use for which the responsibility remains with the doctor who prescribes this medicine. This means that clinical studies have not provided evidence of efficacy. These two medicines may be prescribed in cases where there is no possibility of giving these men another medicine. We have therefore made progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u51	This was question No 24566, but what about your question No 24467 on lactation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u52	Question No 24467 by Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou was turned into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u53	Mr President, Madam Minister, endometriosis is a very painful disease that affects about one in ten women in Europe. However, this disease is very little known and recognised in Belgium. Women are often diagnosed very late. Symptoms of endometriosis are extremely painful periods, pain in sexual intercourse, blood in the urine and, in 26% of cases, infertility. This disease would also be the leading cause of infertility in women. Yet doctors and gynaecologists do not always take women with this disease seriously. The earlier the disease is detected, the less likely it is to worsen. In addition, the treatment of this disease makes it possible to make savings in social security. Indeed, many women with untreated endometriosis have to be away from work and on medical certificates at the time of their period. Specialists therefore argue that women should be made aware of the disease at an early age so that it can be detected as soon as possible. It is also important that women be listened to and dare to express themselves so that the rules and pains are no longer considered taboo. How do you explain that this disease, with important consequences, is so little known and recognized in us? How can doctors and gynaecologists be made aware of this disease so that it can be diagnosed as soon as possible? How do you explain that women are not always taken seriously? How can we encourage them to express themselves? In consultation with the federated entities, is it possible to organise public awareness campaigns on this disease?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u54	Mrs Ben Hamou, endometriosis is well known by gynaecologists. It is, on the other hand, a little less so in the general public. The basis of a therapeutic relationship is to listen carefully and take the patient's complaints seriously. Symptoms are not always specific and patients are not always inclined to report pain that they consider to be commonplace. We know that as soon as the girl has her period, she doesn't suffer much at first. After a year or two, the pain gets worse, but the girl thinks it's normal. It is important that the girl be willing to talk about it during a consultation. The question must also be asked by the doctor: does this prevent him from going to school, doing sports, etc. I am not convinced of the opportunity to raise awareness among gynaecologists; indeed, it is their profession and they are well informed. On the other hand, raising awareness among women seems important to me, even if a general public campaign does not seem to me to be appropriate given the unspecific and intimate aspect of the symptoms. Therefore, a personalized approach in the therapeutic relationship seems to me the optimal approach. I know that, according to testimony, there are consequences for fertility. All this is well known. There are differences in severity among affected women. As soon as they start taking the pill, the phenomenon of endometriosis decreases but it persists. As soon as there is a desire for pregnancy, fertility disorders occur due to endometriosis.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic883x.u55	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we close our proceedings by thanking you for your presence.
