ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting our work, which will be stopped at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u2	Madam Secretary, I was a little surprised that you would have jurisdiction for this too. The question was addressed to the Minister for the Interior, but the services told me that I should address you or the Minister for Economic Affairs. Drunkness would be under your jurisdiction. This is an introduction. If you want to start a new catering business, you have to put yourself in order with all kinds of rules. One of these is the provision of the paper document that we all know about when we visit the pub, which deals with the decision-making law to curb drunkenness in a drinking place. That document must be displayed in a clearly visible place. It is good that the services closely monitor the hospitality industry in order to continue to protect the quality of the catering industry. However, is the paper document with this Decree-Law of 14 November 1939 a contribution to it or is it merely a formality? Both the services of the municipality of which I may be mayor and the people of the hospitality industry are wondering if this is still necessary. Apparently, an additional condition is that this paper document must be printed with the Decree-Law in a printing works officially approved by the Ministry of Finance. Madam Minister, this is about curbing drunkenness, and it is up to Health to do so. This question was also submitted to the Minister for Economic Affairs. First of all, what do you think of this? Do the operators of the public establishments still have to display that decision-making law? Is that supposed to be on paper that comes from an authorized printing company? Secondly, if you comply with the decision-making law, you will agree with me that this is a very outdated hospitality regulation. Wouldn't it be a good idea to revise that decision-making law, purely and exclusively in the interests of the people of the hospitality industry? They already have to comply with fewer formalities. This could be addressed in a more modern way. If you were to regulate this, you would in turn be immortalized, as we find the 1939 Decree-Law in every bar. So you can immortalize your name on the wall of many cafés, if that's your ambition, but judging from your mimicry, that's not so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u3	Mr Terwingen, such questions were always answered by the Minister of Justice in the past. The measures taken in the event of a breach of the law of 14 November 1939 are criminal law provisions. A drinking place still has to be the decision-making law. That's a legal obligation. I share your opinion on that law. In substance, I continue to support the law, but the way it is laid down that the extract has to be hung on special paper is a remnant of another era. We could certainly modernise that. The objective is, of course, still valid. It is also an aspect of protecting public order and morality, which is outside my competence. An adaptation would therefore require consultation with the Minister of Justice, given the criminal law provisions contained in the law. In 2018, there are many other ways to alert citizens to the problem of alcohol abuse. I am thinking, for example, of the Bob Campaigns. However, the idea behind the law still applies and must continue to apply. It is, after all, irresponsible and socially unacceptable to continue to give drinks to people who are drunk. Operators of drinking establishments must remain aware of the role they can play in this. You wondered if I would hang on the walls of drinking places with a new law in order to become immortally famous. I'd rather fit in. I am prepared to explore more modern ways together with the Minister of Justice. If necessary, I will do the same with the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u4	Madam Secretary, I am very pleased with your answer. We're on the same page. Maybe a bill can help, too. That might help me get familiar in all the cafes. I'm not a big pub visitor, but it could be. I just want to remind you of one more sentence. One of the rules is that customers need to be equipped with adequate hygienic and decent waterplaces and private premises. That's the language of the royal decree, quite telling. It is also necessary to ensure a prompt discharge of the dregs. I'll give it to you, make it difficult for the translators. What "drinks" are, they will probably never be able to translate. Thank you for your answer. We are going to visit the Ministers for Economic Affairs and Justice again. We will see what we can learn from their answers. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u5	Madam President, Minister, it was announced in October 2015 that the government would introduce a soft drink tax. There is some evidence of this tax, for example that only soft drinks are targeted, while other sugared products are not subject to it. The debate on the differentiation of excise duties on soft drinks with or without sweeteners is under way, and I note that both competent ministers think that something should be done about this, but that the hot potato is being moved rather easily between you and Minister Van Overtveldt. I already asked Minister Van Overtveldt about this. The Minister indicated that his cabinet regulates tax-technical matters on soft drinks, but no changes can be proposed on the basis of the impact of the tax on public health. Your cabinet then points to the fiscal aspect in order to shift responsibility. Madam Secretary, the adjustment of the soft drink tax is a matter for both of you. It is important to include both the health impact and the fiscal aspects and to work together in order to introduce the necessary differentiation of the tax during this legislative period. Is an extension or improvement of the soft drink tax being investigated? Is this being discussed? If so, has a decision been taken? Is there going to be a differentiation between soft drinks with and without sweeteners in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u6	Madam President, Mrs Van Hoof, I will give you the answers I have here, to earlier questions from Mrs Van Camp and others on this subject, in particular on the discussions that are taking place with the Minister for Finance, on the impact of the soft drinks tax. An extension is not currently on the table, nor is the introduction of a tax on the other categories of products containing sugar. It is true that a tax-technical arrangement has already been drawn up for aromatized beverages. We had asked that from the beginning, but that was not possible at first. That's what's happened now. Flavoured waters containing zero calories and zero sugars have been removed. The question is whether we will continue to differentiate and also work on zero products, which, although they contain little sugar but also contain harmful acids, are confirmed by the dentists. I believe that we should continue this exercise, in conjunction with the sector. Either way, they're involved. I am also kept informed of their efforts to reduce sugar content in soft drinks and to use alternatives. I think we are not quite there yet, but I gave you a more technical answer on this matter last time. In the meantime, there is no evolution in this dossier and there is no intention to extend the soft drink tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u7	Madam Minister, it is clear that there is no prospect of enlargement. However, preparations are being made in the field of research into what can and cannot be done. However, this will be for another government. I'll be back to pick up the technical data later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u8	Madam President, Minister, like us, I think you have received various letters about the integration and representation of nurses in clinical hospital networks. When I tabled my question on 4 April, I received only the letter from the General Union of Nurses of Belgium (UGIB), which also wrote to you. Since then, it has been true that I have received other letters, including from trade union organizations, but I have also had the opportunity to meet and be aware of other difficulties identified by other caregivers, including pharmacists and physiotherapists. The message relayed by the health care providers contains regret that it has not been heard or consulted in the context of this reform concerning the establishment of clinical hospital networks. They also make a series of requests which they consider essential for nurses to have a clear and equitable place in this reform and in the organisation of the hospital landscape. They also put forward a series of possibilities: the participation of nurses in the organisation of networks, the establishment of local nursing councils, the creation of the function of chief nurse of the network, the systematic integration of the nursing profession into the future bill on clinical networking between hospitals, the involvement of nurses in the implementation of the INAMI agreements and the right to participate and vote on the distribution of the financial envelope generated by nurses. Is it worth reminding again that nurses represent the largest number of staff in hospital institutions? Minister, why have you not had any consultation, at least so far - unless this has been the case since the beginning of April - with the nurses' representatives as part of this clinical hospital network reform? I am thinking in particular of the UGIB, which is an important player in this field. How do you respond to all of the requests in their March 26, 2018 letter? Have you already in the meantime or will you now that the text has been forwarded to the Council of State set up a consultation with the representatives of nurses?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u9	Madam Minister, I was also questioned at the end of March by nurses' organizations, but on this subject I had already asked you at the end of January about their concerns. In fact, they were excluded from the discussions and arrangements provided for in the organisation of hospital locoregional clinical networks. By the end of January, you had not given any precise follow-up, clear response, or strong commitment to involve them and involve them in the management, organisation and coordination bodies of future networks. So they came back to me with more specific questions about the function of nurse network head, medical advice, nursing advice, the right of decision and the right to vote in the distribution of the financial envelope generated by nurses, as well as their involvement in the INAMI conventions. Since then, have there been any consultations? What follow-up did you give to these requests? Overall, nurses will need to be involved with physicians in future care organizations as well as in decision-making, especially as changes in functions and tasks between care providers are required.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u10	Dear colleagues, I have also received a letter from the General Union of Nurses of Belgium (UGIB) and taking up some points of attention following the draft law on collaboration with hospitals forming part of the locoregional clinical networks. We are aware of the fact that the reform we are proposing has a significant impact on all parties concerned. During the preparation of the project, we took a lot of time to discuss with many stakeholders. The tasks of the networks are, in the first place, to define the medical strategy with regard to the locoregional missions and the collaboration with the reference points. The definition of this strategy will also have an impact on the investment policy of hospitals, which in most cases depends on doctors' fees. The draft law on locoregional clinical networks reflects various aspects of the current Hospitals Act. The role of chief medical officer and the existence of a medical board have long been part of the organic legislation. The Hospitals Act makes no mention of any nursing council. The UGIB's criticism therefore relates to the existing legislation on hospitals and not to the draft law on networks. In addition, since patient care remains a mission of the individual hospital, it would be inappropriate to have a nursing department or a nursing director at the network level. However, it is not prohibited to create an advisory board specifically dedicated to nursing at the network level. Be aware, however, that it will not be anchored in the law. Finally, I would like to point out that I have been careful to include health care expertise within the network's management bodies. In accordance with the draft law approved by the Council of Ministers at first reading, at least one third of the management body of the clinical hospital network must be composed of members with specific expertise in health care. It is better not to have these people connected to one of the hospitals in the network, in order to ensure the autonomy necessary for decision-making. I sincerely believe that including nursing expertise in management will have a greater impact on thoughtful medical decision-making than providing for representation of nurses' interests at the network level. There are already sufficient mechanisms and bodies that can assume such representation in the field of labour law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u11	Minister, I will relay your comments to the nurses. In my opinion, they will not be satisfied and I can understand them. Consulting doctors and hospital federations was obviously a must, but it did not prevent you from taking a step to ensure representation for nurses, whose role is increasingly important in and outside the hospital. You could have, at the very least, also had this attention and become aware of the issues at stake. I take note that you're sending the thing back to hospitals. It is disappointing that, as you know as well as I do, if you want the networks to be successful, you must avoid any situation of closure of units in hospitals. The result would be a cascade effect of job losses in the personnel of these units. It's an obvious risk. I thank you for your answer, although I admit that I find it very disappointing overall.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u12	Your reaction is modelled on that of the unions who claim that there will be no more work in health care. As you know all the studies on this subject, you know very well that the number of people working in the care field will increase in the years to come. Don't keep me busy at this level with pamphlets and slogans, I can hear them on the street.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u13	Minister, you are saying that I think there will be no more work in health care. If there's someone who knows a little about the reality of hospitals, it's me! In addition, potentially one motherhood and one emergency room in two will close. Don't come here to say that there may not be a direct impact on these units, and therefore on these nurses. Of course, maybe they'll find a job somewhere else. But the reality is that too! I'm tired of getting behind images so we don't talk true. We have to tell the hospital staff the truth. It is also necessary to speak true to the patients. That's the reality. It's yours, too. To assume his responsibilities also means not to lie and to fully assume, in consultation with them, future realities that will not be easy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u14	Madam President, the word 'lie' can be deleted here. Mrs. Fonck, I'm not lying. There are constant contacts in my cabinet with all the organizations involved. Having contacts and listening doesn't mean "doing what they want." Consultation is one thing, having the pen taken by the syndicates is another. I'm not lying about it, they're all being heard and they're being listened to. You ask for representation at the level of the networks. Mrs Gerkens has already said it. What about the physicists? What about the nurses? What about the carers? Then we're going to build a Chinese army at the level of the network. If that's how you want to drown the fish, you're doing well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u15	Madam Minister, you said you spoke to the many actors involved. But you're not talking about nurses. If you've met with them about the networks, it would be nice to say so. You don't mention it in your answer. It is true that their demands for involvement in the management, vision, strategies and strategic projects of hospitals, as well as in the organization and distribution of budgets, are earlier. However, the organization of the networks was precisely an opportunity to review things since this issue goes hand in hand with another way of financing hospitals. I thought the goal was also to reduce the direct link between benefits and hospital funding. But, in your answer, you say you don't want to involve them in decision-making bodies...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u16	At the network level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u17	However, there is a global vision because there are reference hospitals, expert hospitals, and community hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u18	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u19	All right. So there will be services. But if there is one category of health care professionals that are cross-sectional, it is nurses. They're the only ones. In doing so, it is worth thinking with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u20	Madam Chair, if the minister did not answer the question as to whether she saw them or not, she did not meet them. I've inquired and I know you haven't seen them, Madam Minister. That said, Minister, as far as networks are concerned, you are still talking about the aspect of representation in hospitals. But it's not just that part. The networks will have a major impact on the organisation of health care as well as on a range of units. I've quoted emergency services and maternity wards, but I could list you a much longer list. Yes, it is normal and responsible, as Minister of Health, to have contacts with nurses to see how, tomorrow, the entire nursing profession will evolve so that, at some point, things may also evolve in terms of employment with shift to ambulance, shift to home teams, etc. But not to face the reality, namely the potential loss of jobs in hospitals, is not acceptable. It is therefore up to you to discuss it with nurses as well as union representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u21	Minister, this file is not from yesterday. There has been a new, important and positive social agreement concerning the staff of public and private health-care institutions. Today, as a first step, it is the private sector that is concerned with the famous IFIC (Institute for Classification of Functions) model in terms of the evolution of wages and scales that will be made according to the work done and not only according to the degree. The FNIB (National Federation of Nurses of Belgium) has written to you. Kines and pharmacists also showed up. Today there is a work of transposition in private hospitals and associations and uncertainties, concerns and insecurity are major. A series of questions also arise about the differences in treatment for those affected. While having released an envelope is a positive element, there are significant concerns and concerns about transposition. Minister, given these uncertainties, what answers can you give with regard to the method, the accompaniment and the teaching component to clarify and, if necessary, adapt certain points of this agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u22	Minister, the National Federation of Nurses of Belgium (FNIB) has recently relayed the concerns of nurses regarding the new classification of functions and the new scale of salary scales and levels envisaged by the reform of hospital functions, applied in private hospitals since 1 January – and which should be applied in public hospitals within a few weeks. Several elements of the reform have generated negative reactions and many questions in the head of the FNIB. Among these, the fact that the new classification of IFIC functions is now based on a set of six general criteria without taking any further account of qualifications, diplomas and levels of study, which, in her view, tends to devalue general professional skills. Thus, regardless of the diplomas, qualifications or qualifications obtained, if nurses in a sector perform the same function, with the reform, their wages will be equivalent. Another complaint raised was that professional associations had not been co-ordinated and involved in the process of preparing for the reform. It should also be borne in mind, as regards premiums for special professional qualifications and special professional qualifications, that it would have been decided that no one would be able to enter the bonus system as early as May of this year, with the result that the premiums would no longer be financed for new specialist nurses, regardless of specialization. Minister, it is clear that your rhetoric that you are working to maintain quality health care by valuing the professions of caregivers is once again being undermined. I therefore allow myself to relay the legitimate questions of the nursing sector negatively affected by this reform of hospital functions. Can you provide us with specific information on the methodology followed for the implementation of the reform, as well as the persons and associations consulted? Can you argue about the reasons why you did not involve professional associations such as FNIB in the process? How do you justify that diplomas and qualifications are no longer taken into account in the new IFIC classification? In the reform, each function is described according to a set of criteria to which scales have been assigned. However, it appears that existing functions have been omitted? How do you explain that? When will they be added? It appears that nurses head of unit will have a different function and therefore a different salary depending on whether the unit they lead is large or small. Can you explain these notions of big or small unity? On what basis will the size of a unit be defined? Finally, Minister, can you tell us if students who will be graduating in June will get their TPP/QPP?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u23	As you may be aware, the implementation of this new classification of functions in federal areas is a matter of concern. The Joint Trade Union Front drew our attention to a number of matters of concern, in a letter dated 14 May and of which you received a copy. In summary, the unions explain that they have to date no guarantee on the release of the budgets necessary for the application of the IFIC scales in the coming years. They also denounce the absence of decrees, cadastres and decisions on budgetary aspects for premiums for special qualifications and qualifications. They also denounce some counter-truths and claim that the worker will choose to switch to the IFIC scale only if the latter is more favourable. However, at the hearing of the psychologists' representatives in committee on 16 May last in the context of the reform of the health care professions, the representative of Vlaamse Vereniging van Klinisch Psychologen announced massive recourses in his sector because the new classification implies a reduction in wages of around 10 to 15%. Minister, can you clarify the situation? What is the status of the implementation of the new classification of functions in the federal health sectors? Do you confirm that the worker will be able to choose not to join the IFIC scale if the latter is less favourable than its existing scale? In general, what communication arrangements have been made with regard to this reform? While the IFIC website contains useful information, how has it been made known to the main stakeholders? How do you respond to trade unions expressing their concerns about the budgets needed to implement the reform? Can you give them guarantees? What about decisions on premiums for special qualifications and qualifications?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u24	Minister, my question will be shorter given everything that has already been said. We have indeed been contacted by all the federations of nurses, in any case the bodies bringing them together, who have expressed their concern about the negative consequences of this classification of functions relating to the missions, functions and scales of nurses. It is true that you said, at some point, that you were going to organize things differently. We were also contacted by the unions that negotiated the agreements that led to these IFIC classifications. They told us that the proposed system was the right one. During the hearings on health care professionals, representatives of hospital clinician psychologists told us that the IFIC classification did not take on certain functions, that it did not always correspond to reality and that the scales were not adapted. In short, several criticisms have been made, although they do not necessarily go in the same direction. Minister, could you inform us of the consequences of this classification? More specifically, what the short- and long-term impacts will be on career scales and developments. Similarly, what are the disadvantages and advantages? It seems to me that on 30 May you met with the unions and representatives of the nursing federations. Have you reached a clear and common position?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u25	Mrs Fonck, Mr Gerkens and Mr Caprasse, Mr Senesael, like you, I have taken note of the concerns of the National Federation of Nurses of Belgium and other professional organisations. In the meantime, they have been communicated to the social partners. I confirm that we did not wait for their reactions to organise, on 30 May, a consultation within my strategic unit with the ASBL IFIC and the General Union of Nurses of Belgium (UGIB) - the umbrella structure of which the National Federation of Nurses of Belgium is part. All points of concern to the nursing profession were addressed. Then, and at our request, they also changed the "questions-answers" section on their website to better respond to questions from the public. I would now like to explain what the IFIC model really is. This is a negotiated wage model which has been developed on the basis of consultation between employers and employees in the Joint Committee. Its innovative character is evidenced by the fact that employees will be paid with reference to the content and weight of their function, and not only according to the qualification criterion. In addition, the evolution of their earnings during their careers will be much less influenced by the principle of seniority. As a result, their starting salary will be higher. This is fully in line with the deployment of IFIC, as provided for in the Government Agreement, to improve the attractiveness of jobs in the care sector. In order to reduce the existing wage pressure, the social partners have chosen to include the TPP (specific occupational title) and QPP (special occupational qualification) premiums for nurses in the basic scales. In addition, the existing premium system will be abolished. This decision was taken in consultation with the social partners and forms part of the social agreement and collective labour agreements concluded by the social partners in pursuance of this agreement. Of course, the amounts required to fund this system have also been approved by the government. They are shown in the tables. At the time of the introduction of IFIC, it was decided that the acquired rights could not be affected under any circumstances. No staff member can see their situation deteriorate as a result of moving to the IFIC system. In this sense, nurses who were entitled to a bonus retain it. As a first step, this category of employees will not be able to move into the IFIC system. These employees will retain their former salary schedule, including the TPP/QPP bonus. The classification has been in the process of being implemented since January 2018. All on-duty workers received information on their position and potential wage levels on 30 April and have two months - until 30 June - for the possible introduction of an appeal. A worker currently on duty may choose to maintain his current schedule or for the IFIC classification, with the exception of nurses with a specific professional designation (TPP) or special professional qualification (QPP). New employees will, in any case, enter the IFIC system that is more advantageous to them. The new salaries in the first phase will be paid in July. IFIC is an evolving system. An intensive maintenance phase will start in the fall of 2018. In this context, it is planned to update the functions, on the one hand by adding the missing functions, and on the other hand by updating the existing profiles. Particular attention will be paid to the contribution of the ground. Indeed, the feedback that the social partners and the ASBL IFIC are currently receiving, notably through the various professional organisations, will be integrated into the interview phase. For our part, we always e-mail the ASBL IFIC the individual remarks of citizens, nurses and psychologists who arrive at us and we ask them to respond. Finally, I would also like to point out that the possibility of deploying IFIC in the public sector is being examined, as requested in the negotiation of the social agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u26	Minister, I would like to ask you two questions. What does deployment of IFIC in the public sector mean? Is there a timetable already? Is there still a question mark or is it decided ex officio?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u27	We also requested a pre-study. That is why we have already planned a budget this year. For the deployment of IFIC to the private sector, a pre-study was also planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u28	Thank you for your further reply. I'd like to pay attention to something. The question of the modalities of upstream consultation raises the question. The transposition issues are very complicated. I assure you, this is extremely difficult in hospitals. I knew there was no obligation, and you just confirmed it to me. It was repeated to me by several sources. A series of questions remain. It seems that functions that exist today have been forgotten or deliberately set aside. The question remains whole, but it has an impact on the staff concerned. I would like to draw your attention to two points. First of all, we should know what is happening to the existing and now forgotten functions. Will they eventually be added? That would be quite logical to me. Rather than resorting to remedies in the end, it might be worthwhile, in one or two months' time, to take stock of these "forgotten" functions. A discussion could then take place with the government and the social partners in order to find solutions. In fact, you will then address the public sector component. At the same time, these are identical functions, whether they be private or public hospitals; the exercise of these tasks within the hospital is the same. It should also be avoided, in a second phase, that these profiles be changed for public hospitals and that there be double standards, e.g. for nurses or any other caregiving function; double standards, which are very different in the IFIC system of private hospitals and the IFIC system of public hospitals. I therefore urge you, Madam Minister, to take stock of the situation, perhaps within a month or two, with private hospitals in order to adjust what should be. It seems to me that we should avoid recourses in a positive and constructive dynamic with caregivers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u29	Minister, I have four elements to submit to you. First of all, I would like to thank you for your very pedagogic response. We have retained the various elements of your thinking and the way in which you want to move forward. Second, I had included in my application the question of the public. It is true that in my readings and the contacts I had in April, we were talking about two to four months. Now you say that there is an ongoing study and that no specific deadline has yet been determined. It would of course be interesting to know this deadline as soon as possible. I come to the third point. As my colleague also pointed out, there are still fears, but there is still concern. To appease them, good communication must be given priority. This leads me to the fourth element. In your opinion, an appeal may be lodged until 30 June. But at the same time, you say that the IFIC is evolutionary and that you will be able to add the missing functions. However, it would be interesting to know all the information before 30 June, in order to avoid a series of appeals. As you say very well, we can ask the questions, pass on the comments that are analyzed by IFIC. In my humble opinion, there should be better communication in this area in order to avoid the pitfalls we encounter, which are sometimes amplified and not necessarily relevant. I invite you, together with your collaborators, with IFIC, to reframe the communication, so that it is more specific and especially better targeted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. With regard to the questions I personally asked you, I have heard satisfactory answers. However, I am focusing on communication to avoid misunderstandings or drifts in the future. I think it's very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u31	Minister, the meetings and discussions seem to take place more concretely than when we were questioned. Minister, have I understood your answer correctly? You say that from July-September, a permanent evaluation system will be put in place to identify if functions are missing or if adjustments are needed, so that the proposed model responds to the realities of the field or corrects the inadequate elements in the model. I am surprised at the difficulty of having, in both private and public hospitals, both social partners who represent all categories of professionals and providers of care, regardless of their category, having specific characteristics in their profession, their qualifications and their career development. This is not the same as for administrative or worker staff in these same hospitals. In this respect, Madam Minister, do you really feel that the model negotiated by the social partners meets the concerns of the different care providers in their category, even if we must avoid having a narrow or focused look that everyone can have in his or her more specific occupation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u32	Mrs Fonck, you asked a question about the consultations. Now, quarterly structural consultations are planned with the General Union of Nurses of Belgium, a umbrella organisation in which, among other things, the five largest professional organisations for nurses are represented. Additional meetings were planned on our policy cell in the presence of the IFIC association, to provide the communication after the social consultation. The latest consultations took place on 29 March. On 30 May we held an intermediate meeting. The next meeting is scheduled for the end of this month. All bottlenecks will be listed. If functions are forgotten, we are assured that they will be recorded. There is continuous contact with the professional organisations. When we received complaints about unclear communication on the website, we also immediately contacted the request to modify the website and make sure that the choice that people have to make is clear. We have also learned that hospitals have not always made it clear to nurses that, if they are already engaged in the profession, they have a choice whether or not to enter the IFIC classification, which is more interesting to them or not. There is a great deal of consultation with professional organisations. Communication is not done at the level of the policy cell, but by the IFIC vzw created for that purpose. The professional organizations of nurses also want to be part of the social dialogue, but we cannot intervene in this context. We cannot tell the social partners who to include in the consultation. I can only play the intermediate figure and I do so by bringing the professional organisations and the IFIC association together. They clearly want to go one step further and be part of the social dialogue, but I cannot ensure that they are the main advocate of this. Some Members have asked for clearer communication. Mrs Caprasse, you are asking me to communicate more clearly, but I am not responsible for communication. Of course, I have answers to your questions. But it is the ASBL IFIC who claims not to know, who says the website is in follow-up, etc. They made adjustments and sent them to us. We have instructed someone to check the correspondence of the communications in relation to what is being reported to us on the ground. It's new and all I've done is look for the necessary amounts. When we started discussions on the social agreement, only the private sector had made the request of IFIC, but then the public sector also requested it, which surprised us. So we realized that a pre-study was needed quickly to avoid greater differences (since this system creates differences), which Ms. Fonck also stated. Communication is not our responsibility, but that of the IFIC LSA. Hospitals are overloaded with work with the calculation of these different kinds of payments from nurses and others. Discussions took place over 10, 12 or 15 years, resulting in some kind of suspense. Nevertheless, after the departure of the nurses' representatives, many points have been clarified regarding them and we will continue with this method of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u33	Madam President, Minister, the Public Health Office has found Claire's asbestos in two make-up products from retail chain. Previously, also in the Netherlands and in the United States, products of Claire's asbestos were found. In unbound form, asbestos is dangerous to public health. According to the health experts, the risk was rather low because the cosmetics contain only low concentrations of asbestos. Asbestos is released at the extraction of the talk used for the products. However, according to European Directive 1/2005, it is mandatory to always use asbestos-free talc powder for cosmetic products. In the Netherlands, the Inspection Environment and the Food and War Authority have started a broader investigation into all kinds of other talking products such as baby powder. According to spokesperson Jan Eyckmans, the FPS Public Health is also considering launching an investigation. I have a few questions about this. First of all, has it been decided to start an investigation from the FOD into the presence of asbestos in other products containing talc? If so, has that investigation already started or when will it start? When do you expect the first results? Secondly, the European directive is clear. It is prohibited to use asbestos talcum powder for cosmetic products. What sanctions are imposed on those companies which are not as a rule? How can we ensure that no cosmetic products containing asbestos are sold in the future? Is additional information on the cosmetic product directive necessary for the companies concerned but also for the citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u34	Madam President, Minister, I agree with this question. When it comes to asbestos, this is a recurring debate. In the ten days before, however, we read four reports in the newspapers about the fact that asbestos is re-emerging, including in schools. I do know that Flanders is responsible for its removal, but the problem turned out to be much bigger than expected. The week before it was also known that SNCB workers might have come into contact with asbestos in paint on hundreds of old freight wagons. On this point, too, there has not been a great deal of clarity about the extent to which this is true or about the steps that have been taken. There have also been a number of fires, recently, with asbestos hazards. Then the reports of traces of asbestos came in children's make-up. Of course, that speaks to the imagination. Mr Van Hoof rightly said that although it is about very small concentrations, asbestos remains a murderer that we do not want to see appear in such cases. Hence my question as to whether the investigation has indeed been carried out, both with regard to SNCB and with regard to the make-up of the Claire's chain? If so, what is the outcome? What message do you give to those who have come into contact with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u35	Madam President, Mrs Van Hoof and Mrs Van Peel, following reports from the United States and the Netherlands that asbestos was found in the make-up of the Claire's chain, my services of the Public Health Office carried out analyses on certain suspicious products at the end of March. In two make-up products asbestos was found. At the request of the Dutch and Belgian inspection services, Claire's chain removed all products from the shelves at the end of March. Claire's European Headquarters, in the United Kingdom, coordinated this action. The Department of Consumer Products Inspection of the FPS Public Health subsequently visited a number of shops to check whether the products had been effectively withdrawn from the market. That turned out to be the case. Six additional make-up products from the Claire's chain were analysed. Another small amount of asbestos was recovered in two make-up sets. At the request of the Inspection of Consumer Products, Claire's also withdrawn these products from the market. The presence of asbestos would be due to the use of impure talc. Both the Dutch and Belgian inspection services have ordered an investigation into the extent of the asbestos contamination in Claire's. This investigation is ongoing. As responsible, Claire's should be responsible for the safety of its products and have detailed information on the ingredients and traceability of the products. Claire's should therefore also provide the necessary information about the talk, both in terms of the different ingredients and the final product. It is the manufacturer who is responsible for the failing quality monitoring and for the placing on the market of potentially unsafe cosmetics. It is therefore the manufacturer who can be prosecuted and who can be fined. The Dutch authorities are currently evaluating the health risks posed by the use of contaminated make-up products. The results will be published shortly. My services of the Public Health Office are also evaluating this specific file on Claire's. They will then investigate cosmetics with talk on the Belgian market. As far as the railways are concerned, this is paint used by the workers, which was indeed found to contain asbestos. This is the responsibility of both the producer of the paint and those who use it and who have to show the necessary caution. I've seen a few messages in that connection. At the railways, these products were immediately removed from the workplace. Quid with the things that were painted with it? We must remain vigilant. There's now an investigation into everything related to talcum ingredients. In this respect, I believe that it is appropriate to cooperate well, both with the Dutch and with the English. If there are two boxes in our country, there are also others. Cooperation is therefore necessary and we are doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u36	Madam Minister, your services have adopted a very alert attitude and this deserves congratulations. It is good that there is cooperation at European level and that it is not limited to an evaluation of what has happened now and that the products containing talk are being examined on the Belgian market. We can only encourage you to continue that path.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u37	Madam Secretary, I have one more question. To what extent do you estimate that public health is in real danger? Should parents of children who have used these products be concerned? The same applies to SNCB. I know that this was also a discussion about how long this had been known, while the staff continued to work with the paint. Was there any communication with them on public health?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u38	It cannot be the same communication, because it is about exposure to two different products. The Dutch authorities are investigating the risk to public health as the make-up product was more frequent there. I believe it's eye masks and blush. That talk isn't in all the products either. Of course, this should not happen, but I believe that the result will not be too bad. We must contact the railways, because they are not directly connected to our services; communication is always done in par persone interposée. In the context of worker safety, we need to look at what needs to be done with the cases that have already been painted. Does that paint need to be varnished off? That will probably have to be done with security, because asbestos will be released just when there is movement. It is therefore necessary to consider, in the interests of workers' safety, what needs to be done with the cases that have already been painted. They have now removed all the paint and made sure that it can no longer be used. But how long has she been used? What was she used for? I hope that SNCB will be able to untangle that clumsy as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u39	Question No 24912 by Mr Raoul Hedebouw is postponed at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u40	Madam Chair, Madam Minister, my question is already somewhat dated. On 27 March, the Higher Council of Health (SHC) issued a press release providing an update on the maximum permitted nutrient levels for dietary supplements. I am not going to read you the position of the Council. I can't imagine you didn't get to know it, but let's remember that food supplements are not medicines. They are there to supplement the diet when it does not provide enough nutrients to maintain good health. It is true that in relation to this, there are fundamental differences with medicines. The CSS regularly publishes opinions on the maximum levels of nutrients that could be contained in dietary supplements in our time in order to be as close as possible to the actual needs of different groups of the population and taking into account the expected effects and the quantities useful to administer. I am aware of a recent amendment to the Royal Decree of 3 March 1992 concerning the placing in trade of nutrients and foodstuffs to which nutrients have been added. You have set maximum safety limits based on maximum intakes without any risk of toxicity, since this is obviously what we are aiming for. It must be noted that you have not followed the scientific recommendations of the Higher Council of Health. Indeed, this new royal decree results in very surprising situations. I'll mention three of them. With regard to iodine intake, the CSS estimates that the daily intake should not exceed 100 μg per day as a dietary supplement, while in the Royal Decree you allowed doses of up to 225 μg per day, whereas the risks of thyroid disorders are known. The second example concerns iron. The CSS recommends a maximum iron intake of 15 mg per day while in the royal decree you set it at 45 mg per day. With such a quantity, we are not yet at the dose of medication, but we are similar to it. The third example is chromium. The CSS suggests a maximum intake of 50 μg per day and the Royal Decree sets a threshold almost four times higher with a limit of 187.5 μg per day, while the health risks are also known here. The presence in food supplements could mislead the public as to the alleged effectiveness in regulating sugars and fats considered unfounded by scientific experts. Minister, you did not follow the recommendations (particularly regarding maximum levels of safety) made by the Supreme Council of Health in this Royal Order that you amended. I'm really surprised. Can you justify these dosages and intakes much higher than the maximum standards proposed in the CSS recommendations, especially for iodine, iron and chromium? How do you position yourself against the recommendations made by the CSS?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u41	Ms. Fonck, the Higher Council of Health was invited to assess the potential risks associated with the use of vitamin and mineral supplements, while taking into account the contributions of the traditional diet. Such an assessment is essential for setting maximum nutrient limits within the European Union. The CSS has focused on nutritional recommendations, but has not always been able to provide them with a scientific risk assessment. The new maximum levels were therefore set on the basis of toxicological data which could be collected in the CSS opinion. Of course, these are not reference doses for the whole population. The dosages should be adapted to individual situations, taking into account the instructions for use mentioned on each product. As a reminder, we are part of a single European market comprising 28 countries in which the principle of the free movement of goods lawfully placed on the market is an important rule. In this context, maximum limits can only be set if they are based on public health risks. This aspect was further confirmed in the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 27 April 2017 in Case C672/15. The conclusions of this judgment of the European Court of Justice are as follows. First, the national rules must provide for a procedure for derogation from the maximum values laid down in the same rules for food supplements lawfully manufactured or marketed in another Member State. This is the case with Belgian legislation. Secondly, the maximum amounts of nutrients must be set on the basis of the upper safety limits established following a thorough scientific assessment of the risks to public health. This assessment should not be based on general or hypothetical considerations, but on relevant scientific data. This is the case with Belgian legislation. Thirdly, maximum safety limits cannot be set solely on the basis of national opinions, if reliable and recent international reports concluding that higher limits are possible are also available at the time of adoption of the measure concerned. This is also what our regulations provide for. Therefore, no consideration other than the health safety of food supplements – for example, nutritional needs – can be taken into account in adopting regulations to set maximum nutrient limits. As with all food supplements, those containing iodine, iron or chromium must be accompanied by instructions for safe use. As far as iron is concerned, in its opinion 45 mg the CSS considers as the maximum acceptable content in food supplements intended for the whole population, while indicating a lower nutritional need thereafter. With regard to chromium, the CSS raises the question of its effectiveness in relation to certain claims. The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) has confirmed its contribution to the normal metabolism of macronutrients. Food supplements containing vitamins and minerals which are legally placed on the Belgian market are undoubtedly safe. Their safety cannot be contested. I would add that not all dietary supplements are automatically subject to a maximum dose criterion. Secondly, I fully agree with the opinion of the Higher Council of Health when it concludes that the maximum levels of nutrients in food supplements are not adequate for the population as a whole and that the intakes must therefore be adapted to the needs of each individual. Finally, with my services, I advocate the harmonisation of the limits on vitamins and minerals in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u42	Madam Minister, I must admit that this is a very misunderstanding on my part. This is not the first time I've told you that you choose to make evidence-based for the files that suit you while you don't do it for others. The Higher Council of Health is a recognized scientific body in Belgium. But it is clear that you have not followed him. And I confess that after hearing your justifications, I find it hard to follow you. In fact, maximum limits must be set in the Royal Decree. At the same time, however, there is a major issue in preserving the health of citizens that falls under the responsibility of the Minister of Health. For me, things remain very nebulous when it comes to knowing exactly why you allowed such high doses in food supplements that – I repeat – are everything but medicines. I will continue to seek explanations and try to determine the reasons that motivated you, but, at this stage, there is still a great deal of misunderstanding in my home.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u43	Questions Nos 24950, 24952, 24954 and 25002 by Mrs Catherine Fonck are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u44	Madam President, Minister, Spinraza has been available in other countries for spinal muscular atrophy, SMA. In this country it is not yet repaid. I just wanted to ask you about the state of play. I have heard that this medicine is in a procedure and that it would be eligible for reimbursement through the project BeNeLuxA. Is this right? How exactly does that work? When did this file start? What's the lead time? When can people expect an outcome?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u45	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, you are finally asking this question, because someone is very impatient on Twitter. But I cannot, of course, put the answer to your questions on Twitter until you ask your question. That is a matter of respect for the MPs. So you will have to tell those people that I understand their impatience, but I cannot pass you. As far as Spinraza is concerned, a reimbursement procedure is currently in progress with the Committee on Medicinal Products. Whether or not this is dealt with in the context of BeNeLuxA is a confidential element of the file. Before a medicinal product can be included in the list of pharmacovigilance medicinal products, the pharmaceutical company marketing the product in Belgium must submit an application for inclusion on this list. That's what happened. On 12 January 2018, the company Biogen asked for a refund of the specialty Spinraza. It was launched at the Committee on Medicinal Products. After evaluation of the dossier by the Committee on Medicinal Products, on the basis of this committee's final proposal, I will take a decision on any methods of reimbursement within 180 days. Day 180 is on the basis of the submission date on 11 July 2018. This legal period of 180 days can be extended with suspensions at the request of the company. Since this procedure is conducted by an independent committee and we cannot therefore intervene in it, I can only say when this procedure must come to an end.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u46	Thank you for the answer, Madam Secretary. It's been a long time waiting. From your answer, I understand that within a month there will finally be an outcome for these patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u47	Questions Nos 24983 and 24984 by Mrs Isabelle Galant were withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u48	Madam Secretary, if the prostate incontinence has been eliminated in whole or in part, the RIZIV will set a waiting period of one year before surgery is paid back by placing an artificial sphincter, in order to give the kinesitherapeutic treatment every opportunity. That makes sense. In mid-March, however, we took note of a case in which the doctor had established that this was an irreversible problem. Despite this finding, the patient also had to wait a year, because there seem to be no exceptions to that rule. As a result of this specific problem, you informed the press that the waiting period might need to be revised, or that possible exceptions might need to be considered. Madam Secretary, what is the state of play? Any movement in the meantime? Has the RIZIV reviewed the waiting time? Is there any concrete timing in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u49	Indeed, Mrs Jiroflée, the criteria relating to rightholders included in the conditions of reimbursement in the case of distribution 154976-154980, the implanted urinary art fincter, composed of an inflatable cuff, a pump with control system and a reservoir, which regulates pressure, were discussed in the Commission's office to facilitate implants and invasive medical devices. Experts were consulted and the history behind the criteria was reviewed. A waiting period of one year was included in the reimbursement conditions so that the physician and the patient take sufficient time to apply the possible alternatives. It is still considered that a waiting period of one year is relevant to provide sufficient time to test all possible alternatives, before the implantation of such an art fincter. Furthermore, the literature also describes that the degree of incontinence may evolve to more than one year after prostatectomy and that conservative treatments should always be applied first, for a period of 12 months, before considering surgery. Conservative treatments include lifestyle adjustments, as well as pelvic floor muscle exercises, biofeedback, electrical stimulation and possibly pharmacodynamic therapy. The committee will be informed of the discussion in the Bureau and may then decide to carry out a further evaluation and consider whether or not the criteria should be revised. I am thinking, for example, of a situation where it is already clear from the outset that the conservative methods for the patient concerned will certainly not help. I must also point out that the sphincter itself does not offer a 100% guarantee, but that is another matter. It's a delicate operation, especially after surgery. The committee will look into this and we will see if we can amend it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u50	Can you give me a time frame for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u51	I have the power to ask you to investigate things, but not to set the agenda. I understand impatience, but everything is urgent. I don't know, but I'll check.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u52	I understand. I'll re-examine it after recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u53	Minister, I am trying to see to what extent you have respected your general policy note through various topics. This issue is part of this framework. During the discussions on this note, you made it clear that the physiotherapy sector is the basis of the proposals that were presented at the Task Force meetings. This task force was created as a result of the Memorandum of Understanding that was agreed with the sector. Minister, what are you doing about the recommendations made by the Task Force, particularly in terms of changes to the nomenclature? Could you in particular inform us that "the need for treatment related to the patient's pathology could be expressed in units of treatment time"? Have these points been clarified? Could you give us details of the "test project, targeted at a specific group and a specific condition" that you wanted to put in place to test the feasibility of this new concept? Finally, the kines do not have access to the eHealth data of the patient they are taking care of. Why? Could they be granted such access? It would be very useful for the adaptation of treatments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u54	Ms Fonck, the implementation of the most urgent objectives in view of the conclusions of the task force in kinesitherapy conducted in 2017 were explicitly reflected in the agreement "kinesitherapists-insurers" concluded for the years 2018 and 2019, in particular concerning the development of the electronic kinesitherapy dossier, the grouping of reimbursement arrangements on the basis of the categories of treatment needs and the introduction of time units. As regards the recommendations of this task force in terms of amending the nomenclature, the Technical Council for Kinesitherapy has been asked to draw up proposals for a package of benefits and groups of patients which make possible a differentiated model of reimbursement arrangements in the context of heavy pathologies and a limitation of the number of attestable overtaking codes in common pathology and to make it possible for differentiated reimbursement to be made possible. A specific working group of the Technical Council for Kinesitherapy within INAMI is currently studying several ways to achieve this. The same applies to the link between the need for treatment and the concept of a time unit. Kinesitherapists should be able to implement an optimal number of time units for a pathological situation independently for the treatment of the patient in the context of the medical information and therapeutic objectives that the prescriber has communicated. To this end, the physiotherapist has greater flexibility to implement treatment within the framework of his or her responsibilities. These time units cannot be too short or too long. We are thinking, for example, of 15-minute units. Such concrete elements need to be defined more precisely, but it appears that this new distribution of treatment for physiotherapy treatments will be easier to fully implement as soon as electronic recording of the diagnoses and pathologies treated is made possible. Again, within the various working groups of the competent bodies of INAMI, discussions are held to determine a specific group or a specific condition that could be used as a test for the implementation of this new concept. It's an important mission. We will analyse in depth all the proposals made by the representatives of the field in this context. For access to the eHealth platform, I have to ask the question, but I do not think it is yet possible to grant this access to all stakeholders in the healthcare sector. It's a work in progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u55	Thank you for your answers. I hope that we will be able to achieve concrete and positive progress on the various aspects: recommendations, task force, nomenclature, time units, testing projects targeted at a specific group and affection. The fact that it takes a little time does not pose a problem to me, provided that it can be put into practice constructively with the sector, and that it is positive for patients and physiotherapists. Regarding eHealth, you're telling me you're going to ask the question. May I take it that this will be done – certainly, not tomorrow morning – and that you have made a commitment that they will have access to it as soon as possible? I'm just talking about the patients they're taking care of. I am not asking for access to all the data, but only to the data of their own patients. May I ask you to make this commitment?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u56	I will ask why this is not yet the case. I don't know if it's feasible or not. I know that not everyone has access to the eHealth platform, and that this is a work in progress. I don't know if that's planned. I'll ask the question and if it's possible, it'll be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u57	This is important in terms of multidisciplinarity at home. This is mainly about access to patients at home. I think at the hospital, they have direct access to the file. This can really be an added value for caregivers and patients. It would be a shame and abscond to exclude certain categories of caregivers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u58	Catherine Fonck transforms her questions Nos. 25005 and 25089 into written questions. Question No 25406 by Mrs Nathalie Muylle is also transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u59	Madam President, Minister, the moratorium you imposed on medical homes was lifted a few weeks ago following the presentation of the audit report on the operation and cost structure of medical homes, a report that, according to the press, finally convinced you of the importance of medical homes in the general health care offer. We have consistently promoted this importance and, in particular, for the most vulnerable patients. As a result of this audit, a working group was established to make various recommendations to improve the operation and funding of medical homes. Minister, issues to be improved or clarified include the proper use of patient funding, the number of patients that can be cared for, but also the sources of funding or the opt-out policy. Recommendations were expected by 16 April. Could you tell us who made up the working group? Could you also take stock of the recommendations made? How will they be followed? Can you confirm that the goal is to improve patient care and not to make further savings at their expense? If savings were to be made on certain posts, can you assure us that they will be reinjected into these medical homes in order to enable them to further improve the care of citizens, especially the most disadvantaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u60	Madam President, Minister, the audit of medical homes has been tabled and has been delivered to you. It contains a whole series of proposals. It seems to me that this work is both constructive and consistent. Recommendations are made. My only question is whether you intend to follow the – interesting – recommendations of this working group. I got the contents. So I will not ask you to explain the content.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u61	Madam President, Minister, I would like to join my colleagues. The working group working on district health centres was due to complete its work in May. Now that the month of May is over, I would like to know the specific recommendations or proposals contained in the conclusions of that working group. Which of these proposals and recommendations will you take and which will you not, for what reasons or not? Will you take concrete steps to translate the proposals and recommendations of that working group into reality? With what timing will that happen? I understand from the field of work that there are also problems with the 'forfait' committee, which would not or would not meet again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u62	Madam President, Minister, my questions obviously go in the same direction. You examined the functioning of the district health centres by means of an audit. The results are now known. You announced that you would study the audit. A working group within the RIZIV Insurance Committee is examining how to improve its operation. In the meantime, however, new district health centres can be recognised, so you have reported. Madam Secretary, have any new centres been approved? If so, how many? Where are they located? No applications were submitted, if any? For what reasons were applications not accepted? What is the status of the working group within the RIZIV? In which direction do the recommendations go? What initiatives will you subsequently develop and with what timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u63	Minister, my question is of the same nature. The joint working group responsible for formulating proposals, following the audit that you had commissioned from KPNG, delivered its conclusions to you in May. In the many exchanges we have already had on this subject, you have always confirmed that this type of care with capitation funding has its place in the health care landscape but that you want to check the adequacy of the funding relative to the actual expenditure and its distribution: working time and number of consultations, operation, management of medical records, etc. You also wanted to check the participation of medical homes in the care system, ensuring continuity of care. Minister, as the joint working group's proposals and conclusions have been communicated to you, do you have the answer to your questions so that the matter can be moved forward? This group brought together representatives of both package and fee-for-service claimants, insurers, the Insurance Committee and your firm. Has there been sufficient consensus to allow for improvement and to let us know your position on funding, criteria, methods of evaluation and control of medical homes? What's your calendar?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. First of all, representatives of medical homes, insurance organizations, physicians, ABSyM, Cartel, ADMM and members of the Insurance Committee representing dental practitioners, physiotherapists and nursing practitioners participated in the work of the working group. The final report was sent to me on 8 May and is currently being studied in my strategic cell. It includes the following components: updating the regulatory framework, appropriate funding, transparency and quality. So we are studying the final report and we also have additional contacts to explain the elements. It is premature to give an overall assessment already. This dossier is too important for that. The task I assigned to the working group was not to propose economic measures, Mr Senesael, because that was not his purpose. There is no need to comment on this or on the re-use of available resources. As I have said several times in the Chamber, the moratorium on new district health centres was lifted at the time when the audit was made available. It's not about "a few weeks ago," as you say, Mr. Senesael. The audit arrived at the end of November. On the day of the audit discussion, immediately, the moratorium was suspended. In the meantime, of course, new applications for district health centres have already been approved. During the moratorium, the pending files that were in order were already approved. I don't know how much this is about. That application should not be submitted to me, but to the Insurance Committee. I'll have this checked out. This is a matter for a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u65	Madam Chair, since the matter is under review and given the elements of the answers that are being provided, I do not really have a reply to address to the Minister at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u66	Minister, like you, I have received this full report. After everything that has happened, some overwhelming statements, audit, etc., we can understand the concern expressed by the sector. And if some people abuse – which is obviously not acceptable – whether in terms of patient selection or the use of budgets for purposes other than public health, that is not the case, but at the same time, it must not be denied that many are doing quality work at the level of medical homes. I have read this report extremely carefully. It is indeed complex but very interesting. I find the proposals on transparency, the requirements and framework for allocation of resources, fair funding and allocation of resources, as well as on the framework for continuity of care and custody, very interesting. I therefore imagine that, since you have also been informed as you go, you will also be able to move quickly on your side. So that we can then give a serious and reassuring framework for the future for all those who invest properly and do good front-line work. The actors on the ground are ready to move forward, to work and to put themselves also in these interesting and important proposals. Madam Minister, I thank you and will, of course, come back to you on this subject. In what timing, I don't know, but we will probably be many, in my opinion, wanting to know what happens next.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u67	Madam President, Madam Minister, the most important thing for me is timing. I understand that it takes time to study the report, but the preparation of that report has also taken some time and we now know what the good points are and what the recommendations might be. So I'm missing one more time. I say that because there is very little time left to get a number of things implemented in this legislature. The report is there, but the egg has to be laid quickly or time is running out. So I'm still hungry for timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u68	Madam President, Minister, like my colleagues, I would have liked to know how long it will take before conclusions are really reached, but you seem to think this is premature. I will put a written question on the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u69	Madam Minister, in my question, I asked you whether you considered that all the elements of this report were the subject of a consensus that would bring this matter to a conclusion. Can you give me your opinion on this? Having read the report, which is a complex document, it seems to me that there is an agreement between the various partners of this working group which allows us to move forward without having to go back to discussions of proposals that have been made by this group. Can you reassure me about this consensus? In addition, can you give some details about timing as time is moving forward?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u70	You're saying it's a complicated file. Some elements are the subject of consensus, while others are the subject of consensus. That is why there is a continuing dialogue between each other in order to reach a consensus.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u71	I thought all the participants agreed with each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u72	Question No 25125 by Mrs Isabelle Galant is deleted. Questions Nos 25992 and 25193 by Mrs Catherine Fonck are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u73	Madam Minister, many hospitals, laboratories and medical practices have recently charged between EUR 3.5 and EUR 25 administrative costs per invoice. These additional costs are not reimbursed by the sickness fund and, according to the sickness funds, are also unlawful. The law states that all costs must be included in the fee. It is prohibited to add additional costs. The health insurance fund calls for the file costs not to be paid. In a response, you indicated that you would investigate the case. How's the investigation going? Did it start? What's the timeline? Are there any preliminary conclusions yet to be drawn? What measures may be taken against hospitals, laboratories and medical practices which charge the unlawful costs of the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u74	Mrs Van Hoof, at the plenary session of 19 April 2018, I replied to a question by Mrs Jiroflée. In any case, I can only repeat that the patient can always contact the hospital and, in case of discussion, the hospital ombudsdienst in the event of questions or reservations about the hospital bill being received. In addition, I have also recommended patients to contact their sickness fund and we note that they do so before paying the invoice. It is the responsibility of the sickness fund to assist its members. The sickness funds are well aware of the rules on invoicing and may, if necessary, point the hospital to incorrect accounts. The sickness funds also have the necessary software to check each invoice before they reimburse the third-payer part. If, in the event of a check, sickness funds find that a particular hospital systematically charges certain goods or services, either to the patient or to the insurance institution, and thus ultimately to the RIZIV, they are obliged to inform the Medical Evaluation and Control Service of the RIZIV. That department shall examine the situation and act thereon. Hospitals aren't allowed to charge administration fees. It's against the law. I contacted RIZIV about that. To date, it has not been reported by the sickness funds. We also touched on the issue during the discussion with the sickness funds. They will remain alert and will act, if necessary. We advise patients to report such practices. I also have contacts with health insurance funds and medical practices myself. Let us be clear: one can simply charge the consultation, but no administrative costs. That's not allowed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u75	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. This is, of course, followed up through the RIZIV and the sickness funds. I hope that this practice can be eradicated in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u76	Madam Secretary, the highly secure psychiatric ward for interned women in Zelzate has been highly criticised lately. There are many seclusions, on average two a day. There are complaints about the ombud service that would not function properly, there are patients who had to open their mail before they put them on the bus etc. But especially the number of isolations is hugely high. There is also no specific legal framework for these interned women. You announced in the press that you would investigate this matter. I can only support that. I can imagine that this investigation has now been completed. Do you have any results? Is there anything you can say about that? Or is the investigation still ongoing? By when will we know the results? Have you taken measures, pending the results of the study, so that patients and human rights can no longer be violated? There was also the drafting of a royal decree specifically for this type of patients treated under duress in a psychiatric hospital to support compliance with the law on patient rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u77	Mrs. Dedry, I've read those anonymous testimonies, too. Because they're anonymous, we can't verify if they were. Since I myself am not competent, I have asked my colleague Jo Vandeurzen to have this examined by Zorginspectie Vlaanderen, and to discuss it with the Agency for Health and Health, because this agency is responsible for the inspections. It has been promised that they would visit fairly quickly. However, I have not yet received a feedback. They themselves decide the timing and the method of working and they will of course first deliver the report to the Minister responsible, and then to me. As soon as I have been informed about the position of Health Inspectorate Flanders and the Health and Health Agency, I will check whether this can have any impact on the staff upgrade project of twenty T-beds in the psychiatric center of Sint-Jan-Baptist for the reception of twenty interned women high-risk, designated by the court of appeal of Ghent. That is the only dossier for which I am responsible as a Federal Minister. As for your question about a C.B., I suppose you are referring to the revision of the current law on the protection of persons with mental illness. Although someone from my cabinet is also involved in the working group preparing this revision, this remains the competence of my colleague Koen Geens. So I'm going to have to refer you to him for that. However, in no case will the revision of this law prevent the proper implementation of the law on the rights of the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u78	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. We'll wait for more news on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u79	Madam Secretary, the reimbursement of epidural infiltration for patients with back pain was deleted at the beginning of November 2016. Some patients can only relieve the severe pain they experience through that epidural infiltration. The nomenclature code "Repidural infiltration for therapeutic purposes', at lumbar level, carried out in a technically equipped area within an approved nursing facility, calculated up to six times a year, was deleted from 1 November 2016, apparently on the basis of a government savings decision. Madam Secretary, I understand that in the past this code and the use of epidural infiltrations have been handled quite loosely. Perhaps a restriction was indeed appropriate, but a deletion was and is quite drastic. What does this mean for the patients who have only been helped with this procedure and who no longer have an alternative? Did you know the consequences of that decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u80	Mrs Jiroflée, changes in the reimbursement of medical benefits are made in consultation with sickness funds and health care providers, with input from the academic sector in the field of evidence-based medicine. The reimbursement of lumbar epidural infiltration was abolished at the time, after it was found that a high percentage of these applications occurred without a scientifically evident condition. It was therefore chosen to abolish lumbar infiltrations and to prefer more targeted infiltrations, either radicular or transforaminal, which are still being repaid. Patients who previously benefited from classical lumbar infiltrations may best go back to their treating physician to see if they can benefit from these more targeted infiltrations or from any other, also reimbursed treatment. We must not infiltrate because of an unproven effect. That's not harmless. The side effects are not minor either. It has been found that there was no evidence for it and therefore it was decided in consultation to withdraw it, but to leave more targeted infiltrations around the nerve roots and also transforaminal possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u81	Thank you for that answer, Madam Secretary. I also asked a written question on this, perhaps I will talk about it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u82	Madam Minister, on my previous question regarding the recognition of specialist foot caregivers at the beginning of 2016, you referred to the opinion of the National Council for Paramedical Professions, which you received in 2015. You said at the time that the negotiation of recognition was ongoing. I haven't heard anything about that since then, but maybe I missed something. What exactly came out of the bus for that profession?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u83	Mrs Van Camp, in April 2017, I asked a question about an additional advice for the specialist foot caregivers addressed to the Federal Council for Paramedical Professions and to the Technical Committee for the Paramedical Professions. Since a considerable overlap has been established between the profession of podologist and the proposed profession of specialist foot caregiver, I have asked whether the profession of specialist foot caregiver is to be integrated into the legislation on podologists. After all, podologists are now recognized. In addition, I asked whether healthcare professionals other than doctors should be able to prescribe acts or entrust them to a specialist foot care professional. Those advices were promised to me by the summer. I haven't received them so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u84	Madam Minister, RIZIV DGEC has highlighted the risks of chronic opioid use as a result of increasing opioid use. They have published a report on this subject containing a number of recommendations, such as a conscious awareness of the use of opioids and a scientific study on the prescription of opioids. I therefore had the following questions. In the meantime, what have you done with these recommendations? The figures I have requested show that the use has increased enormously and is still increasing. Do you have any plans in this regard? Recently it was also found that OTC use presents risks. You announced projects to enable registration. Where do you stand with this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u85	In 2010, Mrs Van Camp, the Medical Evaluation and Control Service of the RIZIV indeed found that there has been an increase in opioid use over the last ten years. Since then, the Medical Evaluation and Control Service has undertaken several actions. For example, five opioids are mapped on the basis of the pharma OT data. In addition, a thematic control study has been launched on misuse, both among prescribers and opioid users at national level. Complementaryly, my services of the Public Health Office have contacted other European Member States to follow this trend internationally. Finally, there have also been consultations with the Order of Doctors, the Order of Pharmacies, scientific associations such as the Belgian Pain Society, the Provincial Medical Committees, as well as the professional associations of pharmacists. All indicated that opioid use should be properly monitored, but they did not consider that there was an epidemic. Nevertheless, we have already launched awareness campaigns through lectures for LOC groups and general practitioners on the risk of over-prescription and/or use of opioids.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u86	Madam Secretary, Greenpeace has denounced in the media the problem of advertising meat products with children's idols, such as the Samson sausage, which contain as much salt, saturated fatty acids and other unhealthy ingredients as other meat products. In addition, studies show that the information on the label of the meat products does not always correspond to the actual content of the product, which is not done. Madam Minister, you have negotiated the extension of the Belgian Pledge, whereby the signatories agree not to advertise unhealthy foods and drinks for children under the age of 12. Forty-two very big players have already signed that pledge, but they're not all yet. The pledge applies to certain advertising, but not to advertising on social media and in vlogs. Do you agree with me that this is a missed opportunity, which needs to be tackled as a matter of priority? Do you intend to take any further initiatives to address the supermarkets that the Belgian Pledge has not yet signed? We have recently had hearings on obesity in our committee, but now that you are here, can I ask you how you stand against healthy child marketing as a flanking measure in the fight against obesity? A number of motions for resolutions have been tabled on this subject. I believe that children's idols or cartoon characters belong only to healthy diets. Do you see any opportunities to promote that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u87	I don't fall down fast, especially when I see Maya the Bee with cigarettes. As far as the Samsonwurst is concerned, there is no specific regulation on the marketing of food products for children. It is also not evident to design final regulations in the area of food packaging or communication at the place of sale, without going into absurd rules on what may or may not be on the packaging of a food product. The sector has a self-regulatory code on food advertising aimed at children, which I support. The companies participating in the Belgian Pledge undertake not to advertise children under the age of 12 for a number of categories of unhealthy products such as chocolate and confectionery. For a number of other categories of food producers this is only done if the product in question meets certain standards in terms of composition. This concerns, among other things, the sugar and fat content and the fibre content, which must be sufficient. There is no advertising in primary schools either, except with the explicit agreement of the management. Last year, the pledge was extended from classical audiovisual media to online advertising on social media such as Youtube and Facebook. I would remind you that Belgium is one of the few countries where such commitments were made at national level. More than forty groups have signed the pledge. You were present at the performance, Mrs Dedry......................................................................................................................................................................... Packaging and communication at the place of sale are indeed outside the scope of the Belgian Pledge, but the advertising code also contains specific provisions on advertising aimed at children. Furthermore, in 2016 the Covenant Balanced Nutrition was concluded with the food industry, Fevia, and the representative of the distribution, Comeos. This should lead to a more balanced composition of food products on the Belgian market by reducing their energy content, including by reducing fats and sugars. In addition, there are still contacts to explore how we can support a label on food products to help consumers make the healthy choice. Some companies have already taken the run ahead and are already promoting healthy vegetables for children through, among other things, bugs and strangely shaped tomatoes. The 2014 food consumption survey of the then Scientific Institute of Public Health, currently Sciensano, shows that 36% of children between three and five years old and between six and nine years old eat fat meat products two and four times a week. About one child in ten is the case on a daily basis. It is the responsibility of parents to decide on the purchase of foods that children will use. If children are preached the same every day, then they will have no choice but to eat the same every day. If parents decide to put their kids on fat meals, they'll have to eat them too. The Länder carry out campaigns to raise awareness of the importance of a balanced diet, especially for children. It is also being worked by producers themselves, to make alternatives attractive through all kinds of issues for which children are sensitive. You also announced a legislative initiative in the article. Once you've examined that, you'll realize how complicated the problem is. It's hard for us to remedy that by regulating all kinds of things over our heads. We therefore continue to consult with the sector and underline the importance of this. If one knows one thing now, it is that people are concerned with health and with the relationship between nutrition and health. Especially for children, that is a sensitive issue. Like you, I think we should keep working on that. You are talking about regulation, but we are not clear how we can do that after examination. So we are looking for a solution in cooperation and in promoting healthy food.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u88	In addition to the answer you have just given, I have recently read that for the first time VIGEZ explicitly advocates a government-supported health label on food packaging. You have inter-ministerial contacts and you are working on the subject in working groups, but I think that is a very recent new element. The VIGEZ refers to the successful Nutri-Score from France, which was positively evaluated. The VIGEZ now apparently also advocates a mandatory system. Of course, Europe has to agree to this, but I am pleased that the position of the VIGEA goes a little further than it used to be. Did you know about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u89	I expect, first of all, from the VIGEZ, a Flemish institute, which makes recommendations for the level it covers. I'll take it with me, but it's just about those labels that we're discussing. In the dome not everyone appears to be united and it remains the question of what form to take, for example flashing lights or flags or anything else. It is clear that it must be one system and not seven systems, because then it will no longer be looked at. Furthermore, European legislation says that we cannot impose this obligation, but that everything is purely voluntary. We have all checked that out. We also have contacts with very large food producers and actors in the distribution chain. We try to come together with them to one kind of instrument and then the rest will follow. After all, it also calls for investment, which some people are opposed to. So we are trying to reach a consensus with the biggest players. There is criticism of every system, including in France: it is considered too small, illegible or too much information. Everyone does groceries and with a full cart it is not obvious to read a lot of information, otherwise we are all in the store for a long time. Others suggest just stay out of the store and buy through the short chain. That's very topical. A farmer's market has also recently been developed on my doorstep. Shorter the chain can not be: the spinach is harvested at 7 o'clock and at 9 o'clock one can buy it there, with the mud still attached, but very healthy. Other people say that one should not eat manipulated food, that one should go back to the source, back to raw food, for example by not eating cut fruit, because perhaps something might have been added to it. So there is a whole evolution going on. The fact that consumers want to get healthier food is a general trend. The consumer can make a choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u90	Madam Secretary, of course the VIGEZ cannot speak for you. If the VIGEZ speaks of a uniform food label, supported by the government, then I assume that it refers to Belgium and not Flanders. I notice that the VIGEZ now adds "state-supported" to it, and I think that is positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u91	Madam President, Madam Minister, I am increasingly confronted with language complaints in mosquito interventions in the region of Grapes, Tervuren, Overijse and Huldenberg. In Tervuren very often the mosquito of the UCL Saint-Luc is sent on site, in Overijse it is increasingly the mosquito of the hospital group CHIREC and in Huldenberg the mosquito of the Walloon Ottignies is often called upon. The aid workers of these mosquito services are very often Dutch out of power or are sometimes unwilling to speak to the patients in Dutch. This leads to dangerous situations. Indeed, people are under stress, because because of the fragile and difficult position in which they find themselves, it is not obvious to have to express themselves in a foreign language. It sometimes leads to misunderstandings, to a loss of time and sometimes to a worse situation. It doesn't stop there, because the patients are then transferred to hospitals where the language is also French, mostly against their will, even if they explicitly ask and beg to be taken to Gasthuisberg. In these hospitals, the necessary communication problems arise, both in the medical field and in the field of psychological assistance. Madam Secretary, are you aware of this situation? Are you prepared to adapt the current situation and look for solutions? If so, which one? When reforming the hospital landscape, do you take into account the language problems in this country? This can be done, for example, by rewriting the mosquito zones, by enforcing the language skills of emergency workers or by replacing the notion of the nearest hospital with the nearest hospital of one's own language.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u92	Madam President, Minister, Mr Spoormen has already outlined the problem in the region of the Grapes region, but the problem arises in all regions at the language border. As a result of incidents in Brussels and West Flanders, I have already questioned you about this in the past. You replied that the language problem would be considered, together with the overall evaluation and updating of urgent medical assistance. In the implementation of the government agreement, you and the Minister for the Interior set up the action to evaluate and update urgent medical assistance. More than a year ago, I asked you whether the question of language would be considered, to which you replied in the affirmative. You added that the plan was in the final phase of my most recent question in plenary on 30 March 2017. Madam Secretary, I would like to ask you, just over a year later, about a state of affairs. What progress has been made on the evaluation and adjustment of urgent medical assistance, as set out in the government agreement, and what progress has been made on its roll-out? How is a solution given to this language problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u93	Madam President, Mr Spooren, Mrs Pas, in the operationalization of the reform of urgent medical aid, the first phase of which is now being worked out, we only received funds for the first phase of the programme. In the first instance, it concerns the transparency of the urgent medical assistance bill, which includes tariff security for the patient. Secondly, we are moving towards a flat-rate financing of urgent medical aid. Thirdly, we are increasing the quality of medical dispatching. Fourthly, we are providing a path of policy support and enforcement. I am very aware of the language problem that you raise, which is not only in Overijse and Huldenberg, but along the entire language border. The language problems arise in both directions. That is why we have been looking for a sustainable solution. In this respect, we must admit that urgent medical aid will remain a specific and difficult area of action for the introduction of any solution in terms of linguistics. In health care, the patient has a choice. He or she may choose which practitioner he or she steps with a question of concern. However, the premise of urgent medical care is that the patient loses his right of choice and that the system provides the quickest possible help, because it is unacceptable in urgent medical care to delay life-saving activities for longer than necessary. The concept of linguistics is difficult to fit within that concept as a criterion. And so we have sought a solution in a broader context of the legislation on professional practice. There are solutions provided and there the last slope will be worked out for all aid workers. It concerns not only the doctors but also the ambulances, the nurses, in short, anyone who comes into contact with the patient when he or she needs help. I will not, therefore, go into urgent medical treatment by means of language regulations. We've been looking into that, and I can't. We will develop the last track further in the wider context of the legislation on professional practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u94	Madam Minister, this is a disappointing answer, and I do not agree with it at all. Firstly, you note that the patient loses his right to choose, because the notion of "closest to" is more important than language. That is not always the case. There are cases where the lack of language skills has more damaging consequences and creates far more dangerous situations than those few minutes, which is what it is about, that Gasthuisberg might be further than the CHIREC hospital group or the UCL Saint-Luc. Secondly, I've spoken to people from the sector. Hitting a mosquito is one thing. Once the mosquito is on the spot and the first medical aid is being administered, a few exceptions are no longer so urgent after the return to the hospital. So there is no driving that fast anymore. The patient is being treated on the spot. With the exception of a few diagnoses, the speed is not an argument for not driving to the hospital in which the patient can be cared for in his or her language. So I understand that there will be no solution, which is very disappointing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u95	You did not understand that a solution was sought, but not within the reorganization of urgent medical aid. I would like to point out that urgent medical care means sending the best help to the patient as soon as possible. There are indeed language conflicts. Belgium is a country with a wealth of language borders and there are language conflicts. I'm looking for a solution, but not to intervene on my own. I'm not the dispatch service for urgent medical care. The day an ambulance is sent from the other side of the country, which means that the run-in time is too long and a dead man falls, I don't want that on my conscience. I will not question the expertise of those who believe that, on the basis of the patient's question, a mosquito is urgently needed, based on the patient's panic. I won't intervene there. That's not my job. They're responsible. They're doing the dispatching. They have to judge from where the ambulance can get there. In the field, it's more complicated. Here it is all easy; we are dealing with how it should be theoretical. You are right, it is necessary that the patient's language be spoken; so do I. But I'm not gonna interfere in the field. I have visited 112 centers often enough to know what a difficult task it is, when the question arises, for the patient to send an ambulance, a mosquito or a PIT. It may be that the ambulance comes from a French-speaking institution, where there is no knowledge of Dutch, but I tell you that there are also complaints on the other side of the language border. These may not end up with you, but with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u96	Madam Secretary, I am pleased that you acknowledge that there are complaints. When I questioned you about incidents in the past, you said that there were very few official complaints about this issue. I agree with you that time can be vital for rapid and adequate assistance. A few minutes may be important, and indeed one should not rely on the patient's panic. I do not agree with you at all, however, that language requirements cannot be included. The fact that so far there are still incidents involving mosquito or ambulance services in another language area without any of the members of those teams being able to speak the language of that language area can be as dangerous as one does not understand the patient or who is there. Not only time but also good communication with the patient are essential aspects, which can be of vital importance. Making sure that at least one member of the team who drives out at the language border understands both languages and can communicate with the patient seems to me to be a very important condition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u97	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns the establishment of a committee for the evaluation of the law on the termination of pregnancy, also known as the abortion law. This evaluation committee must draw up a report every two years. Since 2012, this committee has not been constituted. However, this committee should collect statistical data and make recommendations for any legislative initiatives that could lead to a reduction in the number of pregnancy breaks or better guidance and care for women in an emergency. However, a double list of 16 candidates was proposed in the June 2016 plenary session. You must then indicate it yourself at KB. In the meantime, we are a year and a half away and the committee is still not composed. I have the following questions. Why can't we put this committee together? What elements will ensure that Members nominated by Parliament have not yet been appointed? This is aberrant, isn't it? What stage is the composition at? Is there a timeline with a set date for the completion of the composition?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u98	Minister, as my colleague has just pointed out, I am not going to repeat them. In any case, today they are not respected. On 22 December 2016, the Chamber sent you a double list of 32 candidates. You have to take a royal order. Why do you have a problem with this? Will you be able to fulfil your duty quickly by making the royal decree that will establish the new commission? As you know, hearings are currently being held in the Justice Committee. I therefore contacted the evaluation committee, whose secretariat was able to collect several data from the registration documents and the annual reports transmitted by the institutions. However, they have not been published since 2011, when the commission worked until 2013. However, this did not prevent its secretariat from continuing its work. This means, in short, that data from 2012 to 2015 are well collated. Members of the new commission - once installed - will have to comment on them so that they can make recommendations. In the meantime, we must of course be able to receive the raw data collected by the secretariat of the commission on terminations of pregnancy between 2012 and 2015. I therefore ask you to make them available to us through the secretariat of the committee. Once it has been established, it will issue its recommendations, which will then be transmitted to us through the usual channels. In view of the ongoing debate in the Committee on Justice on termination of pregnancy, we need to have this information available.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u99	Minister, my question is of the same order. It has been difficult to bring together the sufficient number of persons to fill the various categories of members of this commission. Nevertheless, Parliament has divided the persons into two separate lists and submitted them to the Government, comprising one of the effective members and the other of the alternate members. This was sent to you on December 22, 2016. Since then, we have not received any information on the designation. There was no decree published in the Monitor. Those who have applied, and who have been written to inform them that they have been selected, still do not know whether they will be effective or substitute, and do not know the practical information regarding the holding of meetings of this evaluation committee. In addition, we have, via INAMI, all the data since 2012, even though we have not had an evaluation report from the evaluation commission. I wish I knew your schedule and what you were doing about it. Is it possible to expect this new committee to provide rapid information on the latest data and figures available?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Article 1 (2) of the Act of 13 August 1990 setting up a committee for the evaluation of the law of 3 April 1990 on the termination of pregnancy, amending Articles 348, 350, 351 and 352 of the Criminal Code and abolishing Article 353 of the same Code, the members of the evaluation committee are now nominated by Royal Decree from the double list by the Chamber of Representatives. As you have pointed out, it has had a lot of ground to find the number of suitable candidates to sit on the monitoring and evaluation committee. To this end, the definition of one of the categories had to be adapted by the Chamber, which also had a lot of feet in the earth. The double list of candidates, as approved by the Chamber, which was officially transferred to us by the Prime Minister's cabinet at the beginning of May 2018, turned out to be compiled in a different way than in the past. In the past, the Senate compiled that list. The Chamber has done so in a different way. The candidates on the second list do not all belong to the same language group as the corresponding candidates on the first list, for which they usually act as alternates. So there has to be a parity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u101	It's okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u102	No, it's probably not serious, but, as you know, some are very sensitive to the linguistic role. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u103	That was not the case either. It was then examined whether this could cause problems and, if so, whether the list of effective and alternate candidates should be amended, also taking into account Article 1 (2), second paragraph of the Law of 13 August, which provides that linguistic parity and pluralist representation must be respected when the members of the committee are appointed. The Council of Ministers now has to decide who, among the candidates, will be an effective member and who will be an alternate member. The file is being finalized and will be closed in the coming weeks. In the meantime, the Commission Secretariat has prepared the 2014 Report for 2012-2013 and the 2016 Report for 2014-2015. These reports can be validated as soon as the committee resumes its work. So we will suddenly get the six-year reports. The 2018 report for 2016 and 2017 is also being prepared. The institutions could transmit the latest data for 2016 until 30 April 2018. As regards the place and periodicity of meetings, timetables, etc., it is the responsibility of the committee itself. Article 1(2) of the above-mentioned Act provides that the Commission shall establish its rules of procedure. There is also something else: the letter sent by the Chamber has been lost. The minister only received a reminder. We don't know what happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u104	You say it was in May that you received it. We have the information that it would have gone away in December.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u105	We're almost ready. It should be noted that the lists were drawn up in a different way than what the Senate was doing before. We also have no expertise as to whether this can lead to gender issues. It's Echternach's procession!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u106	Madam Secretary, allow me to regret that. I remember the euthanasia committee. Before that, we had passed on the names at the same time and had to change categories. Instead of professors, they were teachers. So I do not understand why this is so difficult for the abortion committee. In the previous legislature this continued to drag on in the Senate and there were also problems with language parity. I do not know what purpose is behind this, but I am very sorry that it means that we do not have any insight into abortion practice today. In the Netherlands, however, an evaluation is carried out every five years, through a thorough study. At least there is a good evaluation of abortion practice. This is where we have to guess what's going on today. Through hearings we hear different people, but I regret that we do not have a report, nor a thorough investigation as it is in practice in the Netherlands. There is a review every five years for any ethical legislation. We have nothing here, zero, brief data. I find it very, very difficult to work without recommendations and just to change legislation without knowing what it is about and without knowing which recommendations certain specialists have. The information available to the evaluation committee is also very brief. We need to look at how we can extend it. I think this is a very bad way of doing things and I hope that it will be resolved in the coming weeks. Otherwise, I think there's a will behind it, something I don't really want to think about. After all, this has been going on for six years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u107	Madam Minister, thank you. This story is a little weird! I am not going to epilogue the reasons, the reasons and the question of whether to look malice or not, but the fact is that we have a serious problem and we have to deal with it. You have to do your job and take the royal decree that will allow this commission to be actually installed. I repeat again, Madam Minister, that the secretariat has actually recorded and collected these data. They are collated and, therefore, there is no reason to wait for the commission to be set up. When the commission is in place, it will make its recommendations. In the meantime, I ask that all the data collected by it be made available to us. This will allow for objective clarification of the ongoing discussions at the level of the Justice Committee. We will then wait for the commission to be set up to obtain the recommendations from its data. I would like to insist with you. This seems obvious to me: for several years now, we have been in an exceptional situation with this vacuum and non-compliance with the legislation. Let us implement and respect the legislation by taking this decision which, at the very least, will allow us to move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u108	I, too, am surprised by the delay in the transmission of the double list. Waiting for a few more weeks seems to me very long. You've had this double list for a month. It is an order that, in my opinion, should be consensual. On the other hand, the fact that the Commission transmits the figures is somewhat complicated because there has been no validation, but the data have also been collected and transmitted by INAMI. There is therefore a direct source of information on these gross figures and not a report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u109	No, the data recorded can only be released after validation. We will not develop an alternative data circuit. I agree that this is taking far too long now, for all kinds of reasons. They didn't find enough people to put that committee together. Then it would also have taken a long time before the amendment had been approved in the Chamber. Now it took a long time to get out of that list because there wasn't enough expertise, including with the FOD. At first they were told not to do so, that this was not their job. We cannot give alternative figures. These are the figures that are collected by the committee, as required by the law. They need to be validated and the royal decree is in the making.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u110	Madam Minister, we read in the press that everything is being prepared in Limburg to make the first legal cannabis plantation in our country operational, following the example of other countries, such as Canada, a pioneer in that area, where medical cannabis has been allowed since 2001. Apparently, our legal framework still stands in the way of that. We all know that. We believe that the importance of safe, medically tested and proven applications is paramount, so that patients or parents of patients no longer have to resort to illegal practices with potentially unsafe products. I have two questions on this, Madam Secretary. When will the legal provisions announced by you be there? Will there be sufficient guarantees that applications reach the right target group in a medically responsible way?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u111	Madam President, Minister, several studies around the world tend to show that cannabis can have medical virtues in the treatment of pain and certain pathologies. Thus, it appears that one of the cannabinoids, CBD, would be very effective in the treatment of serious childhood epilepsy. In terms of its effectiveness, several countries, including the United States, Canada, Switzerland or Germany, allow or are about to authorize, under conditions, the use of cannabis for medical use. Recently, the press reported the case of a nine-year-old epileptic girl whose seizures ceased following the use of cannabis oil. However, in the light of the legislation in force in our country, the parents of the child are now prosecuted. In the face of this situation and the plight of this family, your firm would have said that there was a need to allow access to cannabis for the pharmaceutical community step by step. Minister, can you tell us what these steps are? Furthermore, in view of what is being done in Canada, the United States, Switzerland or Germany, would you be inclined to allow pilot projects on the use of cannabis for medical use? If this is not the case, how do you justify this position? Finally, can you give us details of the brakes that prevent you from legalizing this type of product for strictly medical use?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u112	Madam Secretary, I can complement my colleagues. We are indeed in favour of the application or organisation of a first legal cannabis plantation in Limburg, but it is also intended as a research centre for medical cannabis. Are you in contact with this company? What legislative steps should be taken before this company can start operating effectively? Will that happen? If all legal steps have been taken, how will you determine the quality of the products and ensure that patients/users do not suffer any disadvantages? Finally, on my very old oral question No. 432 you once replied that there may be an opening for the medical use of cannabis in a strictly regulated, evidence-based framework. You have said this in the media recently. Does the start-up of this company mean that we can take steps forward, or that you can do so, in allowing medical cannabis within the evidence-based framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u113	Madam Minister, I was surprised to hear from the press that a colleague from the Open Vld claimed that you were preparing a royal decree to legalize the cultivation of therapeutic cannabis in order to produce oil for use, in particular, on children with heavy epilepsy. It was in this way that I had access to this information. I was surprised, because we have already had many exchanges on the extension of the use of cannabis for medical and medicinal use, to which I am very much in favour. I do not have any criticism to make if this is the evolution of things, but I would like to receive information from you. Do you confirm this information and the reasons for this possible authorisation? I would like to understand why you would specifically extend the use to epilepsy in minors. Is this related only to the production firm's project? Or are other factors taken into account in this regard? I still want to broaden the scope of the question by asking you when an expanded use of cannabis will be allowed for a whole series of pathologies. Other countries have done so, and patients are satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u114	There are two elements to this issue. Firstly, there is the possibility to use cannabis or cannabinoid for medicinal purposes. I would remind you of the KB for Sativex that I have prepared, which, although it is entirely focused on the use by MS patients with spasms that do not respond to the usual medicines. In the case of medical evidence, other matters could also be considered for this purpose. Secondly, there is the fact that we in our country do not have any cultivation to do standardised research into the effects of cannabis as a raw material for medicinal use. Much has been said about all possible effects, but no investigation has yet been carried out. My services are working on a proposal for legal provisions for the cultivation of standardized cannabis as a raw material for medical use. That is a proposal that needs to be discussed in the government. We are now seeking numerous opinions on this matter. I would stress that the legal provisions, including for research into cannabis, will be made possible for all companies in our country who wish to enter into them. They will also have to meet safety requirements and scientific requirements. They will therefore not be allowed to sell themselves, as is the case in the Netherlands. As far as cannabis-based medicines are concerned, only proprietary medicinal products are allowed. They are only granted after a strict evaluation period. This is not to give a gift to the pharmaceutical industry, but to ensure the quality, safety and effectiveness of such medicines. If we want to give these products to children, I believe that we have every interest in ensuring safety. With regard to this raw material, I would like to work step by step on a legal framework. I will only go further if there is a sufficient scientific basis for this. A first step has already been taken by a royal decree in 2015, with the possibility of placing cannabis-based specialties on the market. The next step will be the possibility of cannabis cultivation for scientific research and medical use. Depending on the results of the research, other applications could be considered. Today, we have not yet reached the licensing stage of the use of medical cannabis. I also stress that since 2015, there has been a possibility of placing cannabis-based proprietary medicinal products on the market. Such a product is already available for patients in certain indications. It is essential to ensure the safety of these products. I believe that a cautious approach is necessary. A company has indeed asked if it could develop a scientific project in a conversion site in Limburg, in Kinrooi. The necessary steps have already been taken, but I have reported that there has been a lack of a legal framework. We are of course in favour of a controlled culture when it can be used as a raw material for scientific research, because that will give us information on additional applications. However, the legal framework for this does not yet exist, and I cannot allow it at the moment, even as a pilot project, as this pilot project runs over several years. We cannot do that without a legal framework. We have therefore analysed the general legal framework and put forward a proposal that could remedy that gap. This proposal applies equally to all potential farms, because if they can be grown in Kinrooi, they can do so in other places in our country. This work was done in complete silence and discretion and then there comes the case of cannabis oil in a young patient, for whom one thinks a supposedly beneficial evolution thanks to that cannabis oil. However, that has nothing to do with it, because it is not oil produced there. That has come to light because the supplier of that cannabis oil had 250 other customers besides that family, after which the court raided and seized everything. This is to show how something can all roll and how two files are mixed up. And then the question is whether I'm against cannabis as a cure. Who would I be to deny our patients a better painkiller or a better cure for spasms? However, it must meet all the requirements, as with the pharmaceutical applications. It must be a safe, reliable and stable product. We must therefore have a controlled culture before a stable raw material can be developed. We will get there, only two very different files have been mixed up. I also see that the reactions are always anonymous and sometimes very bizarre. Anything for the patient's safety. I don't want any deaths on my conscience.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u115	Madam Minister, you may be surprised, but I fully agree with your cautious approach to the dossier. You haven't heard me cry with the wolves in the woods about cannabis oil. You are right, indeed, that it must be properly monitored and scientifically substantiated. Thank you for the state of play. If people can be helped, I hope that progress can be made quickly in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u116	Small steps are being taken, and that is certainly positive. I'm also totally on the line that things have to be broader, but within the evidence-based framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u117	Minister, thank you for clarifying the somewhat confused information. I am in favour of allowing research for the use of cannabis in drug production. Products and experiences exist elsewhere and may be usable at home without having to repeat all the research.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic912x.u118	Questions No 25406 by Mrs Nathalie Muylle, No 25707 by Mrs Len Dierick and No 25771 by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux are transformed into written questions.
