ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u2	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] : Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we all know what happened on Tuesday in Liège: once again blind violence, radicalisation, terrorism; once again mourning families and indignation. I would like to make two observations in this regard. No conclusions, because that is, of course, the first recital. Do not jump to conclusions. We have to be careful with too quick conclusions. Let us beware of conclusions that are too quick and easy! The second consideration is that we must never accept terrorism as an inevitable social risk. It seems to me that those who elected us rely on other answers. For the rest, silence only fits. Let us observe a minute of silence and solidarity with the victims and their families.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u3	In accordance with what has been agreed in the Conference of Presidents, we will first have a topical debate on what has happened in Liège. I will remain here for this occasion. Whoever gets the floor, and we start right away, can also use the speaker chair. We will not apply the Rules of Procedure, but it was agreed at the Conference of Presidents that we should be reasonable and not remain on the floor for too long. Mr Maingain has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, this Tuesday, the "Ardent City", the city of Liège, which is dear to us in more than one way, has once again experienced horror, an unbearable act of violence, innocent victims, starting with representatives of the law enforcement forces who were carrying out their mission with all the rigour and the commitment that is appropriate. We are not among those who want to see terrorism as a fatality. But we also do not want to let ourselves go to the exploitation of emotions in an attempt to assume some political advantage. Prime Minister, we believe that our collective duty as representatives of the Nation is more than ever to bring a clear message to the attention of our citizens, in a unanimous desire for dignity and responsibility in the face of barbarity and horror. You will therefore find with us the answer to any commitment you make to invite those responsible for all democratic political forces to participate, rather than to reflect, in a thorough effort to prevent such horrific acts. We will not let ourselves go to the temptation, which has already guided some words in the ranks of your majority, to wonder why such acts can be committed, how such a criminal could be at large. If this question were asked with the rigour it justifies, it should already have certain consequences in terms of political responsibilities. Out of respect for the victims and even more so for those who were close to them and who expressed the sense of reserve and measure in the face of horror, we consider that the time is not to determine political responsibilities, but rather to have the courage to assume certain commitments to take the necessary steps to combat the rise of radicalism and, in particular, in prisons. Mr Prime Minister, I therefore ask you to silence the dissenting voices in the ranks of the majority. I ask you to assume, before the Nation, the federative role that must be yours so that, finally, in a collective will assumed, we can, before the citizens, give the meaning of a real commitment in the fight against the rise of radicalism. Clearly, both the judiciary and the police, who bravely face this rise, lack capacity, resources and undoubtedly also expertise. The time is not to put the weight of events on their shoulders. The time has come to give them the full capacity to preserve what we all care about: our rule of law. For we do not prevent barbarism by barbarism but by the collective dignity of the Democrats.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me in turn to express my condolences to the families and friends of the victims. It's very bad to lose a child, it's very bad to lose a parent and it's even worse if that happens in such a horrible way. I would also like to encourage the police to protect us daily with danger for our own lives. I want to thank them for that incredibly. I hope that the left-wing activists who made the police in the media last week for murderers and cowboys realize that they weren't stray bullets in Liège, that our policemen were deliberately chosen as targets. For ministers who consider that further investigation is needed into the perpetrator's motives, he called several times "Allahu Akhbar." That doesn't mean I'm confused. Fortunately, the cleaning lady Darifa was spared, only for the reason that she is Muslim and says to participate in the Ramadan. It's clear enough what ideology inspired the unsub. Everyone speaks of a radicalized one, but this is not a radicalized Buddhist or a radicalized Jesuit. It's another radicalized Muslim. Our prisons seem to be good breeding ponds for that. What measures will this government take to combat the Islam radicalisation of prisoners? Are we going to set up a separate prison for Muslim fundamentalists? Will the system of penitentiary leave be reviewed? It is unbelievable that a prisoner, linked to terrorist suspects, for whom guards warned, was given thirteen prison leave and eleven night-time permits, even though he violated the conditions. If you think all these rules were followed, is there anything thoroughly wrong with those rules? That's not a justice policy, that's Russian roulette. Sooner or later, things have to go wrong. My main question is about political responsibility. That is a question that needs to be asked today. After Dutroux's escape, two ministers resigned. Then "let them walk" was another accident. Today, "let them go" is a government policy. I have already interviewed the Minister of Justice in mourning about the depopulation of prisons, early releases, week-to-week detentions, the expansion of an ankle-band regime, the hardly carrying out of imposed sentences, you name it. The incredibly lax justice policy is putting our citizens on the streets today. The Minister of Justice is the person who allows parole. He is directly responsible for the terror in Liège. After all, this Herman should never have been given penitentiary leave. Will the Minister of Justice quit? How many more people have to die first?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are faced with terrible events. Two police officers, two mothers also, one young student, son and friend, executed in the streets of Liège. Today, a sense of compassion rightly prevails. However, Prime Minister, at the same time, everyone wonders how this man could have been released after eight convictions and 12 years in prison. Who took the decision to leave at what time and on what basis? After all, leave can never be allowed when there is a flight risk or when there are safety risks. Mr Prime Minister, that question is all the more pressing, because in the past the person concerned had had several opportunities and has repeatedly committed new facts, which have given rise to new convictions. The criminal court had also given him opportunities but eventually decided not to release the man. However, his leave was granted. Mr Prime Minister, if there were signs of radicalisation, has that earlier leave been called into question again? Did the information end up with the people who had to make the decision? Prime Minister, the rules must be applied rigorously for our group. The bar cannot go down, nor to prevent overcrowding, nor to stop threatening strikes. However, this seems to be the case today. It's not the first time we've seen that. It's not the first time we've pulled the alarm. Prime Minister, I am addressing the entire government. That is why my group once again calls for a broad evaluation, not only of the execution of the sentence, but also of all leave systems, as well as the follow-up and control of sentenced persons. It's high time we looked into that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in memory of the victims, in the face of horror, in the face of the pain of families, we must, as representatives of a nation that weeps and is indignant, be together and present to the families our emotional condolences. We must emphasize the courage of an employee, a maid at the Athene Léonie de Waha, of a woman who symbolizes the bravery of humble, anonymous people, but who are the pride of our people. We must salute the coolness of the teachers who have admirably surrounded the children. And finally, we must honour the police, like other representatives of state authority, the privileged target of those who hate our democracy. On behalf of all of them, we need – it is our duty – to understand what has happened, to resume their questioning, their indignation, their need to know. First of all, I come to prison policy and radicalism. The situation in prisons is all the more difficult given the lack of staff and the fact that the government has also imposed 20 per cent of operating cost savings on an already well-cut vase. The current prison policy seems to be inadequate for radicalism. I would remind you that most of the perpetrators of the terrorist attacks went through the prison block. We have held a Terrorist Attacks Commission for very long months and we have drafted recommendations. Now is the time to know what measures have finally been taken, taking into account the conclusions of this committee. For example, what are the investments for individualised support plans for radicalised people? What are the investments for terrorism and radicalism referents to enable them to detect and prevent connections between them and other more vulnerable people? As far as the routes are concerned, prison leave is necessary to prepare for release from prison and to avoid the manufacture of human bombs. However, leave must be given on the basis of a risk assessment. The question is on all lips: how, under what circumstances was it possible to grant that person a new leave of absence? There are many questions. We need answers. Yes or no, has the killer been in contact with radicals in prison? Have these recruiters been the subject of police information reports? If so, when? Did these reports highlight radicalism? Have these persons been the subject of a Security Report? When? Were there indications of problematic contacts between them and the Liège killer? These people weren't in DeRadex. They weren't in the satellite section. Why? What are the guidelines to prevent such explosive profiles from converting vulnerable spirits? At the moment I'm talking to you, where are those recruiters? Has the killer himself, too, been the subject of police intelligence reports? When? Has it been the subject of Security reports? When? Were these reports known to the OCAM, the police, the prison administration, the prison director at the time the leave was granted? Finally, did a duly trained radicalist referent follow the path of the person concerned? Ladies and gentlemen, we really need precise answers to these questions which have developed since the tragedy in Liège but also throughout the country. Have there been any mistakes, errors, negligence in the services concerned? Is prison policy really adapted to the dangers posed by radicalism? Finally, did the possible lack of responses to your own plans and the recommendations of the Terrorist Attacks Commission, yes or no, allow a killer to assassinate innocent people?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on behalf of our group, I would like to express our appreciation and respect for the two police officers, Lucile and Soraya, who lost their lives while in office as agents at the service of the population, and also for Cyriel, the student who wanted to become a teacher. We must also remember that a worse tragedy could be avoided by the cold blood of citizens, of Darifa, the school cleaning lady, of the café operator, of the teachers. We have just received a proper tribute. People also have a lot of questions about what happened and those questions deserve an answer, a correct answer, a full answer. It is Parliament's job to ask for and demand that clarity and to hear solutions. I would like to concentrate on two points of concern: prison policy and the lack of information exchange. Prison policy, ladies and gentlemen, has been a disaster for years. In 2005, the basic law providing for the preparation of an individual detention plan for each inmate was adopted. This is essential so that prisoners, if they ever leave prison, can re-integrate into society. The purpose of this detention plan is to work on this reintegration. The problem is that this law has not been implemented for 13 years. The result is that today in prisons hardly anything is done with the prisoners. There is no detention plan, no guidance worthy of name, and there is a shortage of everything: staff, Islam consultants, resources, training. Prison is the university of crime. That's where people learn. No one gets out better that way. Our prisons have become waste pits for many inmates. My first question to the government is therefore when will the 2005 law finally be implemented? What is the government waiting for? The second problem concerns the exchange of information. That too is a major problem; we have already noted this in the work of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. Radicalism in prison has also been known since 2005-2006, when the first plan on radicalism was drawn up. At that time, it was not implemented in the area of radicalism in prisons. It was only after the events in Verviers that action was taken and the seriousness of the problem was recognized. Colleagues, ten years have actually been lost and we are seeing the painful consequences of this today. The exchange of information was crucial at that time, but it failed. In this case there were apparently two reports of the State Security in which the person concerned was mentioned sideways. There was also one police information report and there were findings by penitentiary officers. These people, who deal daily with the prisoners, also made alarming findings. The question is what happened to this information and whether it was known when taking the decision to grant penitentiary leave. There are only two possibilities. Either those reports were known to those who had to make the decision, and then we can ask ourselves serious questions about the decision taken. Either the reports were not known at the time the decision was taken, but that means that there is a serious lack of flow of information that can be crucial in making such a decision. Hence a number of specific questions which I hope will be answered in concrete terms. First of all, has the information been collected and analysed? If so, by whom and when? What were the conclusions? Secondly, was the department or the person who decided on the penitentiary leave aware or not of the information of the State Security, the police and the prison staff? If so, would you say that this decision was wrong, Minister? If not, how is this possible? Would the decision have been different in that case? I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we can get clear answers to these questions. I believe that we can draw a great deal of lessons from this for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again, our beautiful city of Liège is touched in its heart by acts of unnamed horror. Once again, we share the pain of innocent victims who have been hit by the bullets of a radicalized madman. Once again, allow me here today to express my condolences to the families, to the friends of the victims, to Cyril's family, this 22-year-old young man who was cowardly murdered while he had all his life in front of him, to the families of Lucile and Soraya, two police officers on duty who were cowardly murdered. It is also an opportunity to express my full respect for all those who have prevented this day from becoming even worse and even more bloody. I am, of course, talking about the intervention of the forces of law and order, who acted courageously and took a lot of risks to neutralize this individual. I am obviously talking about all the teachers of the Athena Léonie de Waha, who are doing a great job throughout the year, precisely to germinate the beautiful seeds that are all these young people, and who, in the space of this moment, have taken their responsibilities to shelter all these children. This is an opportunity to talk about Darifa, a cleaning woman at the Athene Léonie de Waha, whose courage allowed this day to be no worse. On Tuesday, we saw the worst and also the best of humanity. Darifa, Soraya on one side, and Benjamin Herman on the other. I think these names alone are enough to make us understand that it is not a debate between cultures that must be held, but a debate on the measures and policies that we can put in place so that this never happens again. Everyone in Belgium is wondering, and so we in Parliament must dare to ask how that could have happened. The question that everyone is asking is this – sadness and anger mix: how is it that this individual could have been liberated? We must be able to answer this question today, or in the days ahead. Colleagues, allow me to testify to these returns that were made to me in 2016, during the pickets in front of the country's prisons. I met dozens of prison officers who, already at the time, warned us all. They know the field. They are present in prisons. They told us: "We need more resources. We're making human bombs. We can no longer do our job well." They're asking for more resources. With the strike planes, the guards said that it is not only about their working conditions but also about the means they need so that the prisons do not become factories that simply release madmen back into nature. Did we hear this call from prison officers in 2016? They had told us that there was a lack of means, particularly to ensure personalized follow-up. Indeed, it is not a linear follow-up that allows for the supervision of radicalized prisoners, but an individualized supervision. Prison officers are not alone in issuing this opinion, as it is also reflected in the reports of the Terrorist Attacks Commission. What, then, were the means involved? At Lantin's picket, I heard a colleague explaining that a social worker had to deal with between 80 and 90 different cases. How can effective work be done? That is the question that the judiciary and the prison world were asking us at that time. Is it possible today that out of 80 radicalized prisoners, only 11 are subject to individual follow-up? Before I go into the details, I would like to address the more general issue of living conditions in prison. I repeat the conclusion of the Terrorist Attacks Commission, which is very clear: "The establishment of better living conditions in prisons is presented as the most powerful weapon in order to combat radicalism." The most powerful, I insist. That is why I believe that there is a need for more investment in prisons. I now address the Minister of Justice. It appeared that, last Saturday, prison officers – these basic actors – had brought the information back to the prison in Marche-en-Famenne that the individual in question was indeed radicalised and that getting him out was a danger. Can you, first of all, confirm the existence of this report? Then, don't you think it's a major political mistake not to take this into account before releasing this person? Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to reflect in depth on ways to prevent such horror from reoccurring in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I agree with the feelings of sympathy expressed by other colleagues in relation to the families of the victims of once again a very cowardly atrocity against innocent people, this time in Liège. Our thoughts go out to the student's next of kin, who had just turned in his internship report and died of deadly violence in his mother's arms. Our thoughts also go out to the next of kin of the police officer who had just become a grandmother and will never see her grandchild grow up, as well as to the next of kin of the police officer who leaves teenage daughters. We wish all these people very much strength. Other colleagues are also right to express their thanks and respect for the response on the ground, for the speed with which the police were present, for the reaction of the bystanders, for the cleaning lady in the school, who has avoided even more misery. That can and must be said at the moment. Minister, many questions have been asked, the drama also raises many questions. As time passes, there are always questions. It is clear that the system of penitentiary leave is under discussion. I would like to endorse Mr Van Cauter's call for a fundamental analysis of the way in which leave systems are applied. We too have a whole series of questions, but other colleagues have actually already asked them. So I will not repeat them. However, I would like to add two more specific points. Firstly, Mr Van Hecke spoke about the problem of the flow of information, which we have been discussing for so long. Was Liege's local police informed that someone with that profile got out and took penitentiary leave? That is a topic that we have already discussed on a number of occasions. Secondly, I have a question relating to the latest information. Is it true that the weekend before the drama, a guard had drawn up a report warning him that he was a highly radicalized prisoner who would be temporarily released? Is that right? What happened to this information? Mr Minister, there is actually only one very clear question at the moment, and that is how in the name of God it is possible that someone with such a profile, with so many elements that point to radicalisation, could proceed in this way, and enjoy such a great freedom to cause havoc. This brings me to a second question. It's kind of like kicking in an open door. Colleagues have quoted from the report of the Committee of Inquiry. In the meantime, almost everyone has warned of the spice barrel that our prisons are, for the ease with which people radicalise there and for the ticking time bombs that stay there. We have done so in this Parliament; the guards have done so during syndical actions and beyond; the federal prosecutor has done so; deradicalisation officials have done so and witnesses have done so in hearings. Minister, there is talk of political responsibilities. For us, and I know that there is a pronostics about your whether or not to stay on, political responsibility means that there are very specific answers to all questions and, above all, that measures are being taken to deal with this misery. The radicalisation problem in prisons needs to be tackled with determination. This brings me to one final point, Minister and members of the government. Parliament made clear recommendations not so long ago. One relates to the posting of radicalised convicted persons. Colleagues, it seems to me that it is high time we all made sure that radicalised detainees remain at the disposal of the government forever.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u11	Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I stand here, like everyone else, with many mixed feelings: a feeling of sadness and a feeling of sympathy for the victims, those involved and their families, to whom I would like to express my condolences, on behalf of my group as a whole. I'm angry here, too. I say it quietly, but I'm actually a little angry here, indignant, and maybe even a little despondent. Mr Van Cauter, we were here a few weeks ago. We also had a debate at the time on the execution of the sentence, also with a fatal outcome. We all know that there is no point in saying that punishment is a sensitive and problematic issue, but that has been the case for a long time. It's not new. It didn't happen all of a sudden today. What kind of punishment should someone get? How is it implemented? What kind of guidance does someone get in prison? When will someone be released? When will someone be ready for society? What is being done with radicalisation, the problem we know today? This requires tailor-made work. That's hard. Yes, Mr Van Hecke, a detention plan would be a very useful tool, but even then information is needed. Information is today the essential word in the questions we have to ask ourselves. What information does one have and what does one do with it? It starts at the beginning. If someone comes into prison, how do they decide where they'll be? Who do they put together? Who's in touch with who? I can assume that this is what is happening, that it is being screened, that it is being looked at who is being put together with whom. If people are to be put together, they must be monitored. How does that work? Does the penitentiary officer keep an eye out for you? How do we do that? How do we monitor? The prison, within the walls, is just the perfect place to do that. On the streets that is terribly difficult, but within the prison walls one should be able to monitor. How do we do that? When something gets noticed, what happens to that information? Where does it end up? Who can handle that information? How does it pass through? Who is it passed on to? If we have that information, what will be done with it? What happens then? Is there going to be an extra follow-up, guidance, or is there going to be a relocation? Is that information also taken into account when deciding on a penitentiary leave or other favor measure? That is a very important question today. Penitentiary leave has been given in this case, with a lot of question marks. The question that everyone has is whether they were aware of this information. Did it get there where it was supposed to be when they made that decision? If that's not the case, how come? Where's the noose? Where are we supposed to unplug? Where does a plumber need to do something about that? If we did know that information, why was this awarded? Why has this measure been given, particularly to someone whom we now know has gone wrong with such a measure before, apart from any radicalisation? As you can see, it is the same questions for everyone. However, these are important questions because we really need to try to understand what happened there. If we see what went wrong and where it went wrong, our group certainly wants to find a solution. We want to see where we can help. I told you earlier, I'm despondent. At the same time, I am also combative because I absolutely want to find that solution. I therefore hope that my questions will be answered very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u12	Prime Minister, I am speaking to you, but I am thinking of the dead victims, the injured victims psychologically and physically, after this new act of madness and barbarity. Is this barbarity religious? The investigation will say so. The investigation will have to answer this question as it will have to answer questions about the granting of prison leave and questions about the radicalization of the murderer. Today, lives have been lost and other lives are broken! We must accompany and support the families who have faced this ordeal. Prime Minister, in those hours when many unknown people remain, on behalf of the MR Group, I want to say our compassion for the victims and our respect for the police, whether they belong to the local police force or the federal police, who dedicate their lives to our protection and who make their lives the bulwark of our own lives. We do not get used to these acts of terror. The Belgian people do not get used to these acts of terror. Our police services have been strengthened almost every month for several years. Our special response units have been strengthened in numbers, equipment and equipment. State security services, and more generally intelligence services, have been increased. But it remains our total responsibility to continue and continue to strengthen these human and material means to minimize a threat that we all know we will not be able to eradicate completely. As for our prisons, Islamic religious proselytism is not new. We also stressed this during the drafting of the "radicalism" section of the report of the "attacks" committee. We dare to say that we are facing an extremely long delay in this area. For 15 years, some of us have been alerting about this indoctrination industry, which is as perverse and pernicious as social media. Yes, intelligence services must invest prisons. Yes, the training of prison officers, not just the directorates, must be strengthened and systematized. Yes, the MR group has taken the initiative to defend incompressible sentences for certain categories of offences, because we consider that some people cannot benefit from a relaxation of their sentence. This does not remove the pre-reintegration requirement that must continue to be carried out for thousands of inmates. There is nothing to be confused in this area. You will tell us, Prime Minister, whether special measures are being taken to accompany the victims and their families in these moments of immense distress. You will tell us whether additional protective measures are being taken for police officers in their patrol work, and whether changes in their equipment should be considered in view of the gradual change in the nature of the attacks. You will tell us, Prime Minister, what initiatives are being taken in prisons to further strengthen the fight against radicalism. You will finally tell us if you plan to create new Deradex cells in other Belgian prisons. For my part, I would like to conclude by welcoming the anti-banditist brigades and platoons. These are special units composed of very large professionals who, in Liège, intervened very quickly to bring down the murderer. I would also like to commend the work of our former parliamentary colleague and mayor of Liège, Willy Demeyer, who faces and must continue to face, alongside his people, with our support and with the support of the police forces.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, horror once again struck in Liège and bereaved three families. We are deeply saddened by the death of Soraya, Lucille and Cyril and express our deepest condolences to their families. We also think of the police officers injured, in their bodies and in their minds, by the barbarism of the acts committed, as well as the trauma experienced by those taken hostage and who showed great courage. Let all those who have intervened to help the very many children and to secure them - the teaching staff, the citizens, the police - receive our deepest thanks here. Of course, we must not forget Zarifa, the workwoman, who had a remarkable behavior in cold blood. Prime Minister, the questions about this new tragedy are numerous and call for answers that are expected by the entire population. Responsibilities are likely to be pointed out. All these issues must be studied carefully, but without populism. We question how the potential risks of an inmate requesting prison leave are assessed. Is its profile established and its evolution continued? By whom? On the manner in which this prison leave was granted, contrary to the allegations made by the Minister of Justice that everything was going well during the 13 prison trips, the question of a review of the prison leave should probably have arisen on the basis of several signals. The individual had failed to meet certain conditions on previous leave. One of them had even been revoked. There are two State Security reports. One of the police intelligence services mentioned that the person concerned was in contact with radicalized detainees. There are several reports of information of prison staff, including an alarmist report two days before the release of the detainee, in which a guard in Marche-en-Famenne was concerned about the radicalization of the detainee in prison and his close relationship with a dangerous radicalized detainee. This report had been prepared less than 48 hours before the murderous leave. Prime Minister, had the prison director seen the alarmist information about the detainee's evolution? What did he do with it? Of course, my point is not to question the importance of prison leave, which is fundamental to preparing, long in advance, the end of detention and gradually bringing the inmate into line with the outside reality, with the life in society, with the responsibilities to be taken and with the conditions given. What we denounce is laxity in the face of reports, in the face of State Security reports in which it is identified. Why does this not come to the knowledge of the prison director and the persons responsible for assessing the relevance of the leave? Why did the OCAM not prepare a report on the basis of the information held by the State Security and the Police Intelligence Service? Once again and despite the teachings and recommendations of the Attentats Committee, I see that the security services are still not or are not working together. What is the status of the information-sharing platform between the intelligence services and the State Security? In this case, it would have been very useful. In addition, we denounce the lack of staff in prisons and their lack of adequate training. Officers can no longer be sufficiently in contact with prisoners, a phenomenon further accentuated by the hyper-automation of new prisons. These agents are not properly trained. How can they then finely detect radicalization phenomena in an inmate? Radicalization in prisons is a clear wound and danger. Not all the mechanisms put in place on the recommendation of the commission of inquiry into the attacks seem to have served much. They should be called into question after analysing them. Prime Minister, the facts are terrible and the findings are overwhelming. What initiatives will you take towards the victims of these terrorist assassinations? Will you review the measures taken to combat radicalization in prisons? Are you finally going to implement all the recommendations of the committee of inquiry on the attacks? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the first thoughts of our group naturally also concern the families and friends of the victims. That goes without saying. When I drove to Brussels this morning and saw so many policemen and law enforcement officers standing by the road, I felt that our thoughts should go to them as well. Our thoughts should go to those people, to their partners and family members. They are there today, they will be there tomorrow and they were there yesterday and Tuesday to guarantee our safety. They deserve our utmost respect, especially after what happened on Tuesday. This has made clear the potential dangers they are facing. Minister, as politicians, we must understand the indignation about how all this could have happened. How did this man get off the hook? It seems as if the decisions on penitentiary leave would have been taken lightly. As a lawyer, I regularly follow criminal records, and I just can't believe it. I know how many professional people are working on that sentence. I am also sure that people with a history like this are being watched very closely. It is unbelievable to me that people have not tried to judge his file in a correct, correct way. Of course we have to do an analysis. Something must have gone wrong somewhere. Has anyone made the wrong assessment? Has there been a problem with the flow of information? Do the persons not have the authority to allow penitentiary leave here or not about all the information? That is something that needs to be clarified. Only then will we be able to look at, analyse and see where our existing structures may need to be adjusted. Let us be clear: in the short term, of course, we need to look at reducing risks such as those of Mr Benjamin Herman, although we know that 100% security is probably never offered. In the longer term, we need to look at how we should proceed with our punishment, because that is the key question of this debate. Do we choose to serve the sentence until the end of the sentence and then simply release the people, or do we opt for a system in which prisoners are gradually being prepared qualitatively and intensively during their imprisonment to integrate sooner or later into our society? It is clear to the Christian Democrats. There's only one way. The path of re-integration into society sooner or later is the only possible path, but this must be done in the best possible and safest way possible. Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, apart from the questions that have already been asked by my colleagues, I think it is clear that there is a very thin line between an interned person with a mental disorder and a detainee with mental problems. This is a thin border, but in practice it is sometimes very important, because in practice these people are treated in a very different way. I have two specific questions. How can care in prisons contribute to a reduction in relapse? What conditions must be further met to further monitor prisoners with mental problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, my group is also thinking about the victims, their families and friends. They deserve our full respect. It is perhaps for this reason that we must now dare to name things, because if we continue to do as we are doing, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Security will in future continue to go from interview to interview and mourn the Chamber of Regrets to mourn. That cannot be the intention at all. The Minister of Security and the Minister of Justice state that someone who prays and establishes is therefore not a terrorist. Let us hope so, please. But that's easy to say. It depends, of course, on what place and to whom one prays. If, after a number of years in prison, a man suddenly falls into deep faith and prays to Allah, then must all the flashing lights go on? There's no other way when that happens, is there? There are no radical Christians, no radical Hindus or radical witnesses of Jehovah committing attacks in this country. There's only jihadist Muslim terror. It's time to face that. A few weeks ago, Minister of Justice, you were confronted here with questions about the letter on prisons. Mrs Van Cauter and Mrs De Wit then questioned you. Then someone was killed by an unsub who got out early. He was sentenced to three years, but was released after eight months. Then you said, Minister, that you had to answer with your hands behind your back. I have the impression that this is the case again. You have a policy with your hands behind your back, I believe. We are talking here about penitentiary leave, granted by you or by your agent. The unsub's name appears in State Security reports, in an information report from the police and in a report from the prison. But still, penitentiary leave is granted. That is also your responsibility, Minister. In the past, the unsub committed a robbery during a penitentiary leave. In 2016, only two years ago, he was convicted of theft. And yet penitentiary leave is granted. That's just not possible, is it? There's one group that's asking for your resignation. We can understand that. In the Netherlands, a minister might take credit for himself. We are therefore asking for very strong answers and very strong actions. I have the impression that the Michel administration's justice policy is aimed at keeping as many people out of prison as possible. Prisons, Minister, are just to keep dangerous people in and not to release them. Mr. Secretary of State for Security, you are also responsible for the Government of the Buildings. Where are the new prisons of Haren and Dendermonde? And what do we do if we don't get them built? Let's just get those ticking time bombs off early? Security and justice policy is the same as in other areas: many tough statements, many punitive tweets, but a lax policy. The worst part is that this lax policy is killing people. That is absolutely impossible!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, on behalf of my colleagues Ecolo-Groen, I want to begin by expressing our sadness and fear at the murderous shooting that took place in Liège. I also want to express our full support to the people who have been injured, to the families of the three victims who have lost their lives: Cyril Vangriecken, Soraya Belkacemi and Lucile Garcia, the two police officers who have been harmed in the exercise of their fundamental mission, namely to protect us. Through them, it is obviously the whole police force that we support and that is in shock today. But we also salute all those citizens who had the courage, at the time of the events, at the scene, to intervene to protect the children of the Athena Léonie de Waha, to intervene, as Darifa did, to try to calm the author of the facts, to try to stop his actions. To all these citizens, we can only express our support and sometimes even our admiration. Such an act challenges citizens, but it must also specifically challenge us as politicians. Even if the perpetrator's responsibility is full and complete – there is no doubt – political responsibility is engaged. It has been engaged for much longer than this black Tuesday, May 29th. Indeed, we know that prison is a place of violence if it is limited to being a place of confinement. We know that it is a privileged place to influence certain people who have fragile and deviant personalities. We know that radicalism and adherence to terrorism are developing in a privileged way. We know that our prisons are overcrowded and that this overcrowding amplifies frustrations and violence. We know that budgetary and human resources are insufficient. And we also know that it is from the first day of incarceration that an accompaniment must be put in place to prepare for the re-integration of the inmate, because all leave one day in prison. In addition, accompaniment is necessary to ensure that the sanction applied to him really serves something. However, Prime Minister, your government – in the wake of its predecessors – refuses to give sufficient attention to the functioning of prisons, to the supervision and support of prisoners and to the support to be given to guards in their harsh and difficult work. The Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Attacks made recommendations and asked the government for commitments, which it then made. These included the fight against radicalization in prison. However, they have not been followed up because of lack of human and technical means. The measures you propose to reintegrate prisoners through prison leave are essential, but they are only considered as a means to reduce their number and thus to recover places. That's not right! It is important not to limit the design of initiatives to be taken, the organisation of follow-up and the communication of information to administrative procedures in the form of a questionnaire of observations to determine whether a person behaves well or is radicalised. It is relationships with professionals and trained people that will facilitate the best knowledge of an inmate. If we do not follow this method, then we do not have the right to be surprised afterwards and to wonder how we could not find that Untel had radicalised and how it happened that the information was not communicated. It is therefore important that we are all aware and that we deploy the human resources necessary for individual support. Finally, Minister, you are responsible for the safety of Belgians throughout the territory. Do you not think that it is time to put an end to the jurisdictional disputes between the Federal State, the Communities and the Regions? As regards the support of prisoners, their reintegration, the policies to be carried out, all levels of power are concerned. Is it acceptable to leave under the control of criminal leaders in prisons, persons who are known to be delinquents who will one day leave, without the necessary accompaniment, without the social, psychological, formative follow-up which is given under the supervision of the federal government or which falls within the competence of the Regions or the Communities? Do you not have a responsibility to organise, today, concrete policies in concert to find both solutions and budgetary and human resources, share methodologies and really act in the service of the security of the whole society and of all citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my most moved thoughts go to the victims and their families, to whom I extend my most sincere condolences. We have once again observed a minute of silence in memory of the victims of a terrorist attack claimed by the Islamic State and perpetrated on our territory. One more. One too much. This time it is Liège who is affected; mainly its police, although we must also deplore a young victim who was unfortunately in the wrong place, at the wrong time. However, we avoided the worst thanks to the cold blood of a lady who prevented the terrorist from entering a school. We would like to pay tribute to him. We also pay tribute to the police officers who intervened at the risk of their lives. Some of them were injured. It is a whole police force that is in shock, an entire city, an entire region, or even the whole country. This criminal, a notorious offender, has radicalized in one of our prisons. This is unacceptable! It's intolerable! The testimony, under the guise of anonymity, of a prison guard is staggering. According to him, the majority of Muslims in our prisons are radicalized and, in addition, they force non-Muslims to convert to Islam and radicalize if they want to serve their sentences peacefully. Detainees are obviously a group of individuals that are very easy to convince and embezzlement. We must therefore learn from this new tragedy, failing which we will move towards an invivable society. We are gangrended by this virus of radical Islam. On the one hand, Prime Minister, your government must be firmer with regard to Muslim prisoners of dual nationality. These detainees must be expelled without delay. They show no desire for integration. Bilateral agreements must be established quickly. On the other hand, you need to be much more careful before granting leave or leave to inmates. Rehabilitation, yes, but not at any price! A radicalized detainee must be kept in prison. It's the only place he's out of his condition. A radicalized person who is at large must be directly subject to an arrest warrant. In addition, we need to strengthen our police services in terms of staffing so that they can be more efficient in the search for information. Colleagues, we're coming out of a week when the police took it for their rank. With the Mawda case, it has been the subject of criticism by some of you and all the media. But let me tell you that if justice were much stronger for those who do not respect our law enforcement, the Mawda tragedy would not have happened, the driver of the van would have complied with the police injunctions. In addition, too many complacent judgements are made against offenders who refuse to comply with any police injunctions. Our police and intelligence personnel must be supported, and not only when a tragedy like the one in Liège occurs. Your vision, Prime Minister, is incorrect. We are no longer in the sixties where everyone was beautiful and kind, where the gendarmes were afraid and where the teacher was respected. We are in the 21st century, our prisons have never been so filled, notwithstanding the fact that we are constantly building new ones. Your vision of multicultural society is rejected by a majority of Belgian but also European citizens. We do not want this country or this Europe to suffer the arrangement of your rules of propriety. This government continues to finance in part organisations such as the League of Human Rights, ICRÉ, MRAX and Child Focus, which have in turn assigned the Belgian state to the cause, to impose on us a new society that the majority of Belgians refuse. Prime Minister, this is my conclusion. Have you received the families of the victims of Liège? Have you taken into account the plight of some of the victims of the Brussels attacks, who are still sometimes homeless? No! But you got Mawda's parents, illegals. Prime Minister, families will remember, and so will voters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this Tuesday morning, once again, a bloody tragedy has shaken our country, our fundamental values of freedom, democracy and the rule of law. Two police officers, mothers of families, lost their lives during this tragedy, as well as a young man, a student, who was to become a teacher. Several police officers were injured and a lady was taken hostage for a few moments. It has shown extraordinary composure, which has probably helped to avoid a more tragic tragedy. As many have done this afternoon, I want to address, on behalf of the government, all our thoughts of support and our best wishes for courage to the families, friends and loved ones who are totally devastated by this unjust tragedy. We had the opportunity, together with my colleagues, to meet some of the injured police officers. We had initial contact with some family members. I want to announce that the government will do its utmost to draw conclusions from previous dramas in the country. Maximum individualized support for victims is obviously essential. We in the Council of Ministers will very quickly take the necessary decisions for the recognition of a special statute, in accordance with the new legislation approved by Parliament. I also want to pay tribute to the impressive courage of the officials of Léonie de Waha High School – teaching staff, school management and students – who, in a few minutes, were able to carry out an evacuation to the rear of the building in order to get as safe as possible. I also had the opportunity, on behalf of the government, to extend all my encouragements to the prefect of this institution and, through him, to all the people who attend it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the first time that we have seen how difficult and complex the role of our police officers has been, a fortiori in recent years, in view of the tragic events in Belgium and throughout Europe. I want to say this with the greatest solemnity in this chamber, this heart that is beating democracy and the fundamental values that we must share: on a daily basis, our security forces, our police officers, the women and men who are present on the ground to guarantee freedom, democracy and the rule of law at the risk of their lives must be supported, encouraged and respected!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we in Europe have faced a difficult challenge, namely the fight against radicalisation and terrorism. In 2017, there were 20 terrorist attacks in the European Union. With 30 perpetrators involved on European soil, victims, police and civilians, dead, and too many injured. In the immediate aftermath of the events in Liège, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office decided to open an investigation for a terrorist offence on the basis of the first indications which had emerged immediately following the attack: on the one hand, modus operandi, which seems to correspond to recommendations made by the barbaric terrorists in Daesh; on the other hand, statements made during the cowardly and ignoble attacks; and, on the other hand, elements linked to the author's profile. As many did in this House a few moments ago, I would like to address, in spite of the profound sadness, despite the feeling of anger that we feel, with the greatest dignity, the greatest composure that is necessary in these circumstances, the consequences, the follow-up that must be given to this tragic situation. Of course, we cannot consider that this tragedy must remain unanswered. Our responsibility is to define a way of acting together, beyond the conventional divisions majority and opposition. I would like to emphasise some important points for the future. Firstly, radicalisation is unfortunately not a new challenge. It is not today that we have discovered that radicalisation is a major challenge for the future everywhere, including in prisons. We are probably confronted here with a process of radicalization, according to the information we have provided as we receive it after the Security Council, and I answer the first questions that have been asked. Two State Security reports had indeed mentioned the author's name. These reports referred to this indirectly, since these reports dealt with other persons and other situations primarily. These reports have been sent to the various departments. The various departments that received this report, be it the OCAM or the Extremism Cell (CelEx), considered – these are the facts as we know them at this stage – that they should not lead to the characterization or categorization of the author. That has therefore led to the situation that we can now establish. Those who had to decide on prison leave were not aware of the information provided in the State Security Report. We will, of course, continue the analytical work in order to understand how the assessments are carried out in order to draw conclusions from them. This is obviously our duty. It appears that police reports have also been prepared with regard to the author. Similarly, there was no qualification in these reports, with the recognition in databases of the author's qualification. Another important challenge, and it is not new, is the implementation of the sentences, the reintegration and a solution to the important and difficult problems of penitentiary leave and the various forms of providing a perspective outside prisons for reintegration at the end of the sentence. We must also be clear about this. I formally commit myself in the name of the government. We want to work with Parliament and with the committee responsible to see what objective screening we can do, not only of the particular circumstances and course of the offender, but also to look more generally at what actions, if any, will be necessary for a stronger and more efficient policy. We need to constantly examine how we can strengthen and raise our level of security. Each one of us in this House measures that we cannot guarantee absolute, perfect security. Each democratic society faces this reality, but our duty, as representatives of the population, is to do everything possible to make the security system stronger, stronger and more capable of guaranteeing fundamental freedoms, personal freedoms and more capable of guaranteeing the rule of law. You know that every year, it is several thousand requests for prison leave that must be processed by the departments concerned. We have to do and we will do the fine and detailed analysis in order to consider the follow-up we have to give to this situation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are faced with a difficult situation. I repeat, our thoughts must first of all be with the victims. The duty we have to the victims is to bring truth and clarity. I am committed to making every effort with colleagues to provide clarity and to putting all the initiatives in place and, where necessary, to preparing measures to strengthen our democratic system. Finally, I would like to conclude by telling you that we feel perfectly both extreme sadness, gigantic emotion but also this feeling of anger and injustice. The responsibility that is ours, shared, I believe, beyond the political currents in this House, is to transform this anger and sadness to ensure that our democratic society, marked by freedom, respect for the rule of law and dignity, is stronger than all forms of barbarism. Mrs. Onkelinx, you said "all together"! Of course! There are differences between us, ideological and political differences in this assembly – it is democracy. But on the essentials, the defence of freedom and democratic values of the rule of law, I call for unity, unity to act, unity to make our country stronger and stronger. This is the greatest tribute we must pay to the victims of this tragedy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since no specific questions were asked to me, my speech will be very brief. Firstly, I would of course like to express my sympathy for the victims, both the civilian victim and the two police officers, as well as the injured policemen, whom we were indeed able to visit and whose testimony of courage and conviction to continue the fight against crime and terrorism was nevertheless confronting. I would also like to bear witness to the courage of the cleaning lady, whom we have also been able to speak in the hospital. She was in shock. After the testimony she has given, I am convinced that she has made it possible to prevent the worst, namely that the criminal would have entered the school and made child victims there. We can't honor that lady enough. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to the local police force of the City of Liège. I am sincerely convinced that its members have been exemplary: they have shown enormous professionalism and impressive courage. Similarly, I believe that we must pay tribute to the work of all our police officers, who commit themselves day and night for our safety, at the risk of their lives. We'll never thank them enough!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u21	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u22	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this question-and-answer session follows a tragic event. Three innocent people, two police officers and one passerby, were killed deliberately, atrociously and totally unnecessary. Four police officers were injured. I wish once again to express my sincere condolences to the relatives of the deceased victims. I wish the wounded officers a speedy recovery. Allow me to answer your questions in some detail. Four points seem very important to me to shed light on the big issues in this atrocious case. First, the absence of an author's registration in the data banks. Secondly, the question of prison leave and leave. The question of the radicalization approach in our prisons. And finally, the issue of care and public health in prisons. Ladies and gentlemen, each of these four questions has a binary answer. Either someone's being recorded in a database, or they're not. Someone gives a penitentiary leave or they don't give it to him. One isolates someone in a separate wing or one does not. Finally, in the wider context of health care, it is decided at some point whether a suspect is interned or not detained. Those are four capital decisions in today's questioning. My intention is to make it clear that our services, how often our prison and security policies are questioned, are always thinking about these four questions. That has also happened in the present case. Afterwards it is easy to say that the wrong decision was made and that the other decision had to be made, because that is evident from the facts. If they hadn't done what they did, there would be now... that question was asked by all of you. I do not like to talk about it, but you can imagine that I would much rather remain silent. However, just as the victims and their families deserve our greatest respect, the services, which in recent days have given themselves sleepless nights because of the sting they could have dropped somewhere, deserve our greatest respect. The staff in these services have also given a great deal of thought to the situation in the last few days. It is often said that our justice system is underfunded. It is also stated that we have had a poor prison policy for 20 to 30 years. There are certainly elements that point in that direction when international statistics are used. However, the resilience of our services, what they have done in this case, gives me the courage to answer you. So I answer: no, do not give in to the easy solution by saying that it is once again Belgian Justice and once again Belgian security. That's too easy. Everyone's referring to state security reports. In our country, as in most current countries, Justice is more public, more public and more transparent than ever before. In this openness we can debate and disagree with respectfully, because everything is known. Nevertheless, as the Prime Minister has already done, I would like to point out to you how the process is going. It's not just a trial. At the time when the State Security makes those notes or at the time the police makes the RIRs, they are communicated to all other security services. These are classified information notes for the security of the State which serve to transmit information that is available to them, not without obligation but without qualification. Its purpose is that it is good that you know this and you will follow it up that you consider necessary. Those notes of the State's Security indeed report the perpetrator side by side in response to a particular person. Both CelEx, the Cell Extremism within the prison system, who is in constant contact with all other security services as you are better known to know, decided that the mention of that name with the small sentence attached in this case, after mutual consultation, would be too light to make the decision that he should be on the list, that he should be in the database. After that, that turned out to be a fatal decision. A more important question, however, is whether it was a wrong decision. After all, it is easy to say after the facts that it was the wrong decision. The fact that two services that know how to make the same decision is, in itself, significant. You will say that the Minister of Justice is defending an impossible file. "It's Belgium again." I was in Washington recently and I spoke to the American OCAD, the NCTC. I asked them if they knew the man who killed 13 people on the New York sidewalk with that truck. Colleagues, there is no security service that doesn't say yes at the time, we knew him. I asked them if he was in their database with 1 300 000 potential terrorists. The answer was no. He was connected to someone else who was in the database but they found his case too light to include him in the database. 1 300 000 potential terrorists, NCTC United States. In Germany, Anis Amri recently attacked the Christmas market in Berlin. After several months he was considered radicalized by the police and later he was considered a threat by the police. However, according to the police, the implementation of a security plan was unlikely and therefore he was not on the lists he should have been on. Let us take a look at what happened in Manchester. MI5 sounds better than state security. MI5 was asked if they knew the person who committed the attack. The answer referred to a 'low risk', 'there are contacts with other people who were seen as a danger to national security' and 'everything pointed to crime and not terrorism'. Let me give you these three examples because we would not fall into our traditional patterns, in which we describe this as a typical Belgian problem. The difficulty is that information of the first degree, such as these notes, which is subsequently appreciated in information of the second degree, namely the recording in a database, will subsequently emerge. Of course, there is nothing wrong with that, but it is sometimes difficult to prevent the informed services that have made an informed decision. After all, we all know that a binary decision can always go in two directions. In France a database of 20 000 people has been created. Our OCAD has insisted on reducing the number of persons included to well below 1 000 to have an active database. A second problem I wanted to raise with you is the issue of prison leave. I must apologise to you for my remarks this Tuesday, in front of the 16th, as I returned from Liège, having gone directly to the scene. This person's prison file was not fully known to me. I knew he had been granted 11 leave and 13 prison leave. I knew that he had obtained restricted detention in 2015 but I did not know his entire course. In the evening already, I corrected the shot by saying on television that, during some interruptions of sentence, he had recidivated. And it was because he recidivated that he never received a conditional release from the sentencing court. Never! During his last recidivism in 2016, he was sentenced to one year for single theft. If you combine all your sentences, without interruption, probation, postponement or other, they inevitably end in 2018. I don't dare say it, but things would have been different if his sentence for theft had been five years, but it was only one year. Therefore, the man in question inevitably leaves prison in 2018. In prison, for nineteen months, he was granted no leave to leave, no prison leave. So we start over and think about it. The legal assistant is asked to conduct a social investigation to see if there is any reason to give him leave or prison leave. I am limited to the last decision that was taken by the Detention Management Directorate in March 2018, which is precisely about the leave we are talking about today. It is important that you know how this is going. "Now, the person concerned is seeking prison leave from the mother's home. The social inquiry is concluded favourably by the legal assistant. The mother and sister of the person concerned, who met him during his leave, pointed to a positive development at Mr Herman's. They invest in and support the situation of the person concerned. If the relationship with the father-in-law is less invested, it is good. He is grateful to take care of his mother", the psychosocial service (SPS) mentions in the additional information. "Although this is a reception environment in which he cannot consider other modalities than prison leave, he will find there the necessary supervision and support for the requested modality. The risk of importing victims appears to be limited. In response to our request for further information, management called the Penal Enforcement Court to obtain information related to possible victim files. At this stage, the court does not have any information." All this to tell you that this is not a decision taken lightly. The decision is much longer and contains very strict conditions. As far as penitentiary leave is concerned, I have heard many of you ask whether the policy pursued by the government and the Minister of Justice in this area, following a circular, should be changed as far as Mrs Onkelinx was concerned in 2007. In 2007, there were 1 298 applications for exit permits and 1 499 applications for penitentiary leave. In 2017, there were 4 143 and 4 442 respectively. In addition, there is a trend that has already begun before my time, in the sense that the allocations have increased from 40% to 55% in relation to the applications. You may be surprised by the current, according to some of you, Minister of Justice, but we have created additional possibilities in the second potpourri law of 5 February 2016 to withdraw the modality of penitentiary leave and the exit permit. As a result, we are anticipating a lot more start-up permits, so the withdrawals are the cause of a higher failure rate. The failure rate that used to fluctuate around 8 % is now between 12 % and 15 %. By "failure rate," we mean only cases where the conditions have not been met. Only one fifth of these cases have been repeated. This means that in 2 % to 3 % of cases there is a recurrence during a penitentiary leave or during an exit permit. In order not to take that risk, it means that those concerned must be put to the end of their sentence. The question is what the risk of recidivism will be if they are not prepared for their return to society. I can only give you the figures as honestly as they are. I would like to stress that we are pursuing this policy in cooperation with the justice houses and the judicial assistants for the social survey. I come now to the issue of radicalisation in prisons. After all, there has been a lot of criticism about this too. In March 2015, we proposed to the government a policy that it endorsed, a bicephalous policy of radicalization wings. At first, we would try to treat radicals as much as possible through integration into a normal climate, and then, only when we are sure they are unrecoverable and contagious, we would isolate them in radicalization wings. The government has given us additional means to do so. This is not the work of Islamic councils. They are of course essential help, but we have trained prison officers, social workers and psychological assistants specifically for this task. Despite the many criticisms, these wings don't work too badly. But it is clear that the decision to isolate someone or not to do so can be criticized if, subsequently, a risk arises that is not expected. I have heard that some groups would like to isolate immediately any inmate at risk of radicalization. Even if we do, there will always be some that we can see should have been isolated. It's always a binary question: do we isolate or not? I want you to understand that there is no risk-free binary policy. Cooperation between the Federal Government and the Communities in the field of aid and services to detainees is defined in the cooperation agreements. EPI, my administration, is the facilitator for the provision of assistance and services from the Communities. Today, prisoners, for example in the radicalisation wings, cannot be obliged to accept the guidance of the Communities. It is an important question for me in the coming weeks and months whether we should not create such an obligation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u23	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u24	I am doing my best, Mr President. Just give me a minute. Wij doen eleven uiterste best, in the framework of the interministerial conferences of the houses of justice, to move forward together with the Communities as well as possible. For example, in Flemish prisons, two deradicalization officials are permanently present. In my opinion - I'm sorry to say so - they're doing a good job. Mr. President, I'm finishing. I've heard that our prisons are not well maintained. I have heard that the climate is not good and that prison officers complain about all this. I just want to tell you one thing about that. The prison in Marche-en-Famenne is an exemplary prison. I've visited almost every prison. In any case in Wallonia, I didn't see one like the one in Marche-en-Famenne. And I tell you more: there is an open diet in Marche-en-Famenne. When I said that I needed more seats, after the strikes, I was told: "Mr. Minister, it is true that under the DBFM contract you can give us 42 more prisoners. Don't give them to us, because we want to keep our amazing open regime at all costs." I visited. I saw criminals sentenced to sentences of twenty to thirty years who came to see me and said, "Mr. Minister, this is really an extraordinary climate." Let us not say that Marche-en-Famenne is a climate that gives rise to all sorts of extremism per se, as could be the case elsewhere. Mr President, two more small points. Many of you have asked me about the basic law. The members of the Justice Committee know that I am doing everything possible to carry it out as quickly as possible. The detention plan is in the draft form of a royal decree, which will soon be passed on to the government. I gave a list of the extent to which a 2005 law will finally be implemented in 2018. My colleague Mrs De Block has left, but my colleague Mr Jambon is still here. The question of internment was similar. A law of 2007 and another law of 2014 were not enforced. We executed them together. Today, for internees, there is finally a regime and an infrastructure that deserves respect for Europe. Ms De Block and the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health agree with what will follow. You must know, dear friends, that our prisoners are not entitled to social security for health care. They lose that right as soon as they enter prison. Our great ambition is that the Minister of Justice will be able to pay the premium to allow them to benefit from this care, as is the case for internees since last summer's budget conclave. Indeed, as Mr Terwingen rightly said, the distinction between internees and detainees is sometimes flinterdun, as it is said in beautiful Dutch. Colleagues, one group has asked for my resignation. Mrs Pas, like you, I know that perseverance at times when things are going to be difficult to bring up is sometimes more difficult than giving up. I have therefore chosen, after two nights of good reflection, not to do so, because out of the indignation that we feel together and out of the will to do better that we have together, I am getting the courage and the desire to fight, Mrs De Wit, and the perseverance to continue. We must show a lot of perseverance, even if justice works better today. We are going through an era that is atrocious in terms of terrorism, but I will not use that word in this case, because it is the federal prosecutor's office and the judge who will ultimately decide what is to be qualified for the facts. In short, persevering in improving the work of justice is my goal and that of the government as a whole. Thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u25	Prime Minister, ministers, we listened very carefully to your answers. I will always greet those who want - as you have also reminded us, Prime Minister - to be part of a democratic agreement. But I also want to ask you to make even clearer and clearer commitments regarding the willingness to bring together those who wish to build a real policy of fighting radicalism. Indeed, it will no longer be enough to come and explain to us that it is the lack of exchange of information between the services and insufficient coordination that finally allowed a person who could be considered extremely dangerous to have found himself free for a time. Of course, I heard the Minister of Justice. His explanations were lengthy, perhaps because he had some difficulty concealing a terrible reality, namely that the filters did not prove fully operational to prevent this unacceptable tragedy. So I would just like to repeat this to the Prime Minister: we expect stronger and more significant initiatives from you than you have indicated to date. Availability is present in all democratic parties, as well as the desire to give the public the signal that we will prevent the repetition of such facts. We will have to be more energetic and creative if we want to be as supportive as ever.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the many statements of support undoubtedly offer comfort, but no solutions. Nor will there be any solutions as long as one does not even dare to name the roots of the problem, the radical Islam. I am convinced that the victims have more to do with rigorous policy actions than with compassion. However, I have not heard anything about a vigorous and firm policy. It seemed more like a therapeutic parliamentary talk session to ease your political conscience. When I hear majority parties restrict themselves to information and evaluation, it seems as if they are counting on the anger of public opinion to blow over. Next week the World Championships will start. Then everybody's Belgium again. Then the summer vacation follows and then it will be forgotten again, until the next deadly act of Islam terror. Mr Geens, you referred to abroad in your reply. You might as well have referred to Hungary or Poland, countries which do not facilitate Islam, which do have a strong judicial and immigration policy and which do not suffer from such suffering. Mr Geens, you are not responsible for the attacks in the United States, in England and in France, to which you referred in your reply, but you are politically directly responsible for the terror in Liège the day before yesterday. Despite this crushing responsibility, you do not have the decency or honor to resign. However, that would have been the only clear political signal needed to get things moving, to turn the current savings policy into a security policy, necessary to turn the current penalty discharge policy into a criminal execution policy. We want security. We do not want a policy that unleashes heavily radicalised criminals on the citizens. With the continuation of such a policy, there will continue to be deaths.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u27	Minister of Justice, I address you. I believe that the questioners of all the intervening political parties, and in particular the relatives of the victims, have not understood why someone with such a criminal record is being released. They've asked for clarity. What's the timeline? How many chances did that man get? How many times did it go wrong? How did the criminal court judge his file for conditional release? Insufficient to allow him to return to society. I believe that we owe the victims' families a clear timetable. It is incomprehensible that we should find today that, apparently on the basis of a report by a judicial assistant on the home situation and against the decision of a magistrate, it was decided to grant leave. The criminal court decided on the conditional release, which was not granted. When is it not awarded? If there are no chances of reintegration, in a dangerous situation. And yet one then grants leave, on such a basis? That's how I heard it. Or has there again been insufficient clarity as to what preceded this situation? Mr Minister, statistics do not provide an answer to the next of kin. The next of kin deserve a timetable. So many words to justify what really cannot be understood! Minister, I expected you to at least be able to talk about the execution of the sentence, that we could talk here about the different leave systems. After so many incidents, we owe it to the citizens, who are counting on us to guarantee their safety, to protect them. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the outstretched hand to at least want to enter into this debate. The least we can do is find out where it went wrong, where the information has not flowed. And I'm not just talking about penitentiary leave, Minister. As far as radicalisation is concerned, I have heard you say that there are several reports which have not given rise to the listing of those concerned. I can understand why it wasn't necessary at the time. If, however, there are further indications, did they at least check whether the previous decision on leave was effectively questioned again? How has this information been handled? Colleagues, I decide. We must take this opportunity to examine the whole of the sentence, all the leave systems, as well as the follow-up and control, and draw the necessary consequences from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, in the area of terrorism, danger number 1 is now the role of prison as a breeding ground for violent radicalism. I sincerely believe that you have neglected this, that you have favoured the parking of inmates rather than the individualized detention plan, and that you have made sense savings. This is a serious mistake! Prime Minister, you called for a unanimous reaction to barbarism. Yes, but I hope, first and foremost, that in the budgets and in prison policy, you will listen to the opposition and change the paradigm. We will remind you of your comments to that end. I would also like more attention to be paid to the situation of prison officers. They are already under pressure from their working conditions. They wear uniforms and are also targets of radicals. Let us not put on their back the essentials of detecting signs of radicalism! First of all, you must invest, as the Terrorist Attacks Commission has said, in the specialized 'radicalism' referents within each prison. On the other hand, I believe that perhaps the time has come for a real intelligence service in prisons, as is the practice in other countries because, in any case, the Sûreté does not seem to have detected the problem by working outside the walls of prisons. We will come back with this proposal. On the conditions of the leave, like Mrs Van Cauter, a member of the majority, I say that we did not get the clarification requested. That's not right! It is a lack of respect for all who listen to us. Many questions remain unanswered, as for example, on the reports of the two recruiters who converted the killer to violent radicalism. I am convinced that there have been malfunctions that have led to a poor assessment of the risk presented by the shooter, that information has not been circulated, have not been exchanged properly. I ask that Committee P and Committee R report to us because we cannot constantly hide under the "confidential" classification of reports. We must be able to draw clear conclusions and not sleep the public by talking about an investigation as we are talking about a commissioning. Mr. Speaker of the House, I would ask you to include this request at our next meeting. Finally, I plead for the government to come quickly with a firm plan for the bomb that awaits us. The Minister of Justice is not interested. Well, I'm fine, because they're real bombs. These people at the end of their sentence, radicalized, in the context of violent radicalism, will soon come out to continue their macabre march. I hate the Cassandres, but the danger really exists. It is your responsibility to compete against him. Finally, I will conclude on Liège, the burning city we love so much. Liège is in mourning, angry. I too want to pay a strong tribute to the mayor Willy Demeyer and all the services of the city, who have worked remarkably, in collaboration with the federal government, to surround the families of the victims and those who were broken by these horrific events. On behalf of my group, I want to send a message of support to all the Liegeians, especially the children of Waha. I want to give them a message of hope. Above all, let them maintain confidence in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u29	Minister of Justice, I am disappointed in your reply. I'm not at all reassured either. You have answered for a very long time and you have said a great deal, but you have hardly answered the specific questions that have been asked. You have failed to provide answers or elements of answer to some of the essential questions raised by me and many of my colleagues. I think people are really expecting answers today. They have no message of comparisons with what happened abroad and the things that went wrong there. They expect answers to the question of how certain situations could have happened here. On one point, you have reassured me a little. You are working on a detention plan, in accordance with the law of 2015. You will be able to count on our support for this. Essential questions remained unanswered. Has the information there ever been put together and analyzed? You have said that certain information has been sent to the Security of the State and the OCAD. I am also talking about the information that came from prison and the findings made by penitentiary officials. Has that information been analyzed along with the intelligence of the police and the security of the state or not? You didn't answer that. I believe that I can conclude that the answer is 'no'.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u30	Let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u31	Then you're the only one who heard that answer. I and my group have not heard a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u32	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u33	Mr Van Hecke has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u34	Was the department or the person who decided on the penitentiary leave aware of the reports of the State Security, the police and the prison officials at the time of that decision? That question has been clearly asked. I said that there were only two possibilities: either that information was available at the time of the decision or that it was not available. If one had it, there is, of course, a problem with the decision that has been taken. If we did not have this information, there was, of course, an essential problem of the flow of information. You did not answer that question, Minister. That question deserves an answer, because similar situations can occur today, tomorrow and next week. Penitentiary officials who do their jobs make reports and pass on information. We expect this information to reach where it should end up and to be taken into account when important decisions are to be taken. Statistics do not bring comfort or justice, but they do not answer concrete questions. We know that two deradicalisation officials are actively working today. You say they do a wonderful job. I want to believe that, but I find two officials who have such an important task very little. I really think that there is a need for further investment and much more needs to be done. Minister, you and the government will have to be much more punished in the next few days and weeks. I support Mrs Onkelinx's request to instruct committees P and I to examine how this information has been handled and how it has been analysed and what information has been shared with whom. That is essential in order to be able to draw real lessons from this drama.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u35	Ministers, Minister of Justice, we can only be disappointed with your answer. What is the purpose of your demonstration today? What, in the end, is the fault not lucky? That everything that had to be done was? That there was no alternative and that it will always be like that? There was not a single attempt to conduct an analysis to find out where the fault had been committed. You answer us vaguely. You are told that the conditions are conducive to radicalization in prisons. You are also told that the conditions are difficult, as all prison staff report. And you said, "Ah, but he was in Marche-en-Famenne!" Benjamin Herman toured the prisons in Belgium. The arguments put forward must not be ridiculed! You are the first to know how difficult conditions are in all these other prisons. In my opinion, Minister, we cannot be satisfied with the answers you have provided. You say everything is binary. That's not true! There's a lot of space between the "yes" and the "no". For example, that of personalized follow-up, the follow-up by psychologists, by social assistants who will look to the millimetres near what is happening. That's what we're telling you today. It's that millimetre that wasn't there. A person in charge of the follow-up of nonante persons cannot make this judgment. You tell us, "Oh, no, it's binary. A wrong choice has been made somewhere!" Minister, we cannot be satisfied with that answer! You cannot wait for the victims to find that answer satisfactory. We have the right to have more answers, minister. I asked you a concrete question that you did not address in your answer. I asked you the question. You stated that the information provided by the State's security was not forwarded and that the information provided by the police intelligence services was not forwarded either. What happened to the information inside the prison service? I've told you about this famous Saturday report in which a person who works with this inmate indicates that there is radicalization, following contacts with individuals who cannot be said to be under-radicalized. What happened with this report? Did you get it? You did not answer that question. You cannot say that the services have not exchanged information. This is still a crucial piece of information. When you have to make a decision, it's this kind of information that needs to be used, minister. Anyway, you didn't answer the question. You say it's a lack of luck, that things are like this and that we're going to try to learn from what happened. Minister, we cannot be satisfied with this kind of response. We need to get the answers to our questions as a matter of urgency. Could information from the prison institution have led to another decision? It is necessary to have an answer to this question in the next few hours in order to know whether or not you have a political responsibility. Finally, there was the debate on the measures to be taken to combat radicalism. Today, it must be noted that, unfortunately, those who act are often known to our services. As we said at the time, there must be a debate on how much energy we are using to monitor the entire population (the NRPs, the ANPR) in order to gather a great deal of information about the NRP, when we do not have the means to analyse and monitor those we know to be a danger. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a priority problem here. It is time to invest much more in personalized follow-up by psychologists, social workers, investigating judges who can also closely monitor people who pose a danger to society. We must stop believing that with broad-spectrum measures, we will be able to counter this type of attack. What has happened is serious and we must learn from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, I agree with you that this is a particular democratic challenge to which majority and opposition must respond. As I have said on several occasions, security policy must not be a political colour. However, it is a call that we have had to hear several times every time there has been a terrorist attack. Mr Justice Minister, I agree with all the previous speakers when I say that it makes us a little suspicious when we see that there are no answers to a whole series of important questions. You say that you answered the question about the report made by the guard that radicalised the person in question. I would like to hear that answer again from you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u37	I am a little surprised at the remark that I would not have made it clear that the information has been passed through between the various services. If the Security of the State draws up a report on a particular person in this case, not the perpetrator, then this is obviously based on information that is based on elements that she learns from the prison system. At the time when the Extremism cell of my administration received the State Security Report and despite the fact that the unsub's name is only mentioned side by side in each of the two reports, the Extremism cell nevertheless contacted the Security of the State to consult on the follow-up to it. This includes the inclusion or non-inclusion of that person on the list and in the database of terrorist dangerous persons. I believe that this is quite clear. I have made this very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u38	Mr. Secretary, there is confusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u39	That, I believe, was the question put by Mrs Van Cauter and Mr Hedebouw. I had too long lyrics and time didn't allow me to read everything. I want to be very specific not to give you the impression that I'm holding something back. Friday night at 9 p.m., a report on the last week was made by a 15-minute chief of staff on the 15-minute guard, as is often the case. He delivered the events of that week to the chief of security, and I even know the names of those people, and he took note of them on Saturday. This was a small report in which a number of walks and contacts in an open regime in the prison of Marche-en-Famenne were briefly described, without any qualifications attached. The chef de garde in question did not consider it necessary to continue with the knowledge of the quartermaster about the perpetrator, who, according to the director of the Marche-en-Famenne prison, was a revolving door criminal but not someone with a predisposition to terrorism, I can only repeat what the director of the Marche-en-Famenne prison says to follow up on that report regarding the assigned penitentiary holiday. That report is, as it should be, delivered to the other security services. That's the answer. I didn't know that like all the other reports, because all those safety notes relating to prison security are not addressed to the ministers. That would force us to read a lot. I didn't know that note from last Friday night. According to the services, there was no follow-up. I can only tell you what they've decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u40	Minister, I can only say that it is said that the report warns that this person was radicalising heavily. No action has been taken on this. I'm very curious to look into that report sooner or later. Minister, what worries me most is that you say that the OCAD has opted to list fewer than 1 000 people in order to keep the number manageable. Is that the criterion on which the security services have to work? If more people are to be on the list, they must be given more resources, but the list cannot be kept manageable. A second element in this story is the fact that the security services have been struggling with homegrown terrorism for over a year. What we are now experiencing is a typical example of homegrown terrorism. It concerns someone who grows up in Belgium, radicalizes prison and commits a terrorist act. There has been more than a year of discussion between departments on how to deal with this phenomenon. It is almost logical that the person concerned is not qualified on the list of foreign terrorist fighters, with which the OCAD has to work today. Minister, it is particularly striking that a royal decree was published yesterday and that a new circular on homegrow terrorism will be circulated in the coming days. That'll probably be a coincidence. However, does the OCAD not blame it for having to wrestle with categories of people for which it does not have a directive?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u41	Colleagues, I propose that Minister Jambon provide factual information. After all, we will not have a real debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u42	Mr Bonte, I have to do something right. Firstly, it is not true that Mr Geens did not mean that the OCAD was given an objective, in particular to remain among the 1 000 people on the list. That's ridiculous. Anyone who needs to be on the list must be on the list, regardless of whether it concerns 1 000 or 2 000 dossiers. It's not about that. By the way, Mr Bonte, it was you who said that there were far too many people on the OCAD list and that there were people who should have been on it before, but not anymore. After all, they are stopped everywhere. The list has therefore been cleared at a certain point in time. Allow me to speak out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u43	The list is clearly not correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u44	The list has been cleared out at some point and, in any case, it will include who should be on it. Secondly, the royal decree has been in preparation for some time. However, the database has been enriched by two new categories. There were already five categories of foreign terrorist fighters. The database has long been enriched with a sixth category, namely the category of HTFs or homegrown terrorist fighters, and with a seventh category, namely the category of hate preachers. The legislative work in this area is in the final stage. In the meantime, however, the database has been enriched with the necessary data to implement a security policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u45	Mr Minister, in my view, the security services have been sucking for months, because they have to deal illegally with new guidelines on databases, which must now be given a legal basis, especially yesterday through a royal decision and perhaps tomorrow or the day after tomorrow through a letter. In any case, it is better that that basis exists, because then there will be at least clarity for the security services. Today, however, the OCAD does not blame it for limiting this to less than 1 000 files in order to keep everything manageable. Finally, Minister, we have held out our hand on several occasions. I once again advocated the implementation of a directive unanimously adopted by the Committee of Inquiry in order to keep radicalised ex-cons at the disposal of the government. You do not even respond to that argument here in the debate. I hope that this directive will be put into effect very quickly. Finally, the Chamber also has an important responsibility. If we learn anything from the incident, it is how dangerous it gets in our prisons, how fast it is radicalised, and how many alarm signals have gone off in the meantime with all the professional groups involved from far or near here. For a few months now, the Chamber has had the full responsibility of overseeing the prison system. On 22 December 2016, we all passed a law that obliges the Chamber to set up a Supervisory Board to monitor life in prisons. Our group leader has repeatedly urged the Chamber and the Government to do so. We got zero on the rehearsal. Prime Minister, I hope that the past misery forces us, the majority and the opposition together, to organise us as an institution, as a Chamber, as the legislator wants us to, so that we can effectively supervise the prison system. It is also in that light that I have an order motion today, in the hope that it will become a reality very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u46	Prime Minister, Minister, I do not think the last word has yet been said on the flow of information. It is not only about what has happened but also about ways of preventing congestion or kinks in the cable. Questions remain about this and we will have to look for solutions. It's not quite clear yet. It is clear that for years there has been under-invested in security and prisons. That's just more vengeful today than ever. I will say it very rudely, my children must not hear this: our punishment sucks, despite all the hard work of many people on the ground, who are working day in, day out to make things work. Actually, that's unacceptable, actually it just can't be. It's gonna take a lot. Capacity is needed, guidance is needed, information flow is needed, and we just need to be firm. It's necessary. We all have to work together on a very rigorous sentence and we really should not be comforted by the thought that it is happening elsewhere. In doing so, we must follow the correct order. We must not adapt our prison population to capacity, but we must adjust capacity. There's something else we can do. We can use the resources we already have and work on the security architecture within the prisons through the prison staff. The prison is the perfect location to control, monitor, screen prisoners. There it is, we have to do that. We have penitentiary staff and social services there, all people with a lot of ears and eyes. They have information, they can bring it. We need to involve these people, appreciate them and support them for that. That does not even require databases. Their information must reach where it is needed and then we can deliver customization, act appropriately, intervene and avoid granting a favor to someone who is not eligible for it. Then we can create a safe society again, because that is our first priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u47	Mr. President, thank you. I didn't think of the time of the reply as the time of controversy. I still don't see it. For me, the present time is that of questioning and not that of premature conclusions. In this regard, I want to say that I understand that answers cannot be provided today, and thank the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Justice, who is really on the front line on the file, and who has provided us with a number of useful information – I find. I would also like to thank them for the commitment they have made, each at their own level, to continue to strengthen the resources allocated to our correctional institutions and to our police services. When the time comes for the answers, I hope, like the Prime Minister, that they will go beyond the majority-opposition divides. I want to say here to my colleagues that, on Tuesday night, I sent a message of sympathy and support to a senior officer of the Belgian police and that he replied: "Our commitment is total and it is up to the pain of the loved ones." We can't do less. We must also have, in this Parliament as well as in the government, a commitment to the pain of the loved ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u48	Prime Minister, your answers and those of your colleagues leave me with too little taste. We have not reached the height of the legitimate emotion and anger of the citizens. They are the ones who listen to us; they need concrete and precise answers. Indeed, many questions remain unanswered today. We wish, Mr. Minister of Justice, to return to the conditions of the prison leave. There was an alarming report. That is why we are calling for the follow-up committee of the Committee of Inquiry into Terrorist Attacks to be convened. At the next Conference of Presidents, we will request the convening of the Conference of Presidents. As some colleagues have asked, we also support the request for a report from the P and R committees on failures in the sharing of information, and on the basis of the actions that will follow. For we do not have all our appeasements about the circulation and exchange of information, nor about the unused information. Prime Minister, time is at work. You asked for a unanimous proposal. It is up to you to make a strong proposal now, including in budgetary terms. I am surprised to hear that, after several years of austerity, some members of your majority are calling for a new investment in prisons. We have to do it. In addition to its main function as a criminal sanction, the prison aims to bring people back into society and enable them to take full advantage of it, without recidivism. Let's not make prisons time bombs! Prime Minister, I appeal to your authority within the government to carry this project, which will at last reassure our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u49	Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, you have answered a number of questions in detail as far as possible. As far as possible, you have made clear how the various services, which have undoubtedly had sleepless nights after what happened last Tuesday, have made choices based on certain elements. You have presented the right points of view. I agree with Mr Pivin that now is not the time for polemics and political recovery. At the same time, I agree with some of the members of the majority who have just noted that punishment has been a problem for a long time. Among other things, the 2005 law on external legal status has set the right course, but after 2005 the Justice Ministers might have had to take additional initiatives to get things right. Maybe now is the time to work together on that. I also agree with what the other majority parties have said very clearly. We need more resources. I think you'd like to hear that, Minister of Justice. In this respect, there can be no discussion of making more money available for subsequent budgetary adjustments or budgets in order to tackle radicalisation, to fill in prison sentences more meaningfully, so that we can prevent certain prisoners from becoming time bombs in prison, as outlined here, and even more effectively to monitor the execution of sentences. Both Open Vld and N-VA have clearly said that you can count on their support. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard many statements on the radio over the last few days. There's one really stuck with me that really hit me. That was the statement by David Goffin, our best Belgian tennis player and a Liikunaar. He stressed this morning that such incidents could happen anywhere in the world and he might know it, because he is foaming the whole world in the context of tennis. He added that we must do everything we can to prevent a repetition of the drama. I think that is a very nice picture, from which we must draw strength. The government, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Security have committed themselves to continuing to cooperate and to assume their responsibilities. That is what Members will do in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u50	Mr Prime Minister, Ministers, thank you for your reply. Minister of Justice, you describe the procedures, but we know them. You say that decisions must be made at certain times. However, you pretend that those decisions are made by services that have nothing to do with you, as if they were external services. I would like to point out that you are indeed responsible for these services. They're not external bodies, it's not a court of law. They're authorized, they decide in your name. If we look at the data objectively, I think there have been some serious mistakes. The unsub was not eligible for penitentiary leave, given the criteria of the current law. I do not think there is any need to change the law, because the criteria are clear, but they were not applied. Minister, we did not ask for your resignation, but I did say what a minister in the Netherlands might do. However, we have asked you for strong deeds. I must say that in your reply I have heard very few powerful acts, nor what you intend to do. However, I have heard many beautiful words and stories from abroad. You seem to mean that our country is not the only place where things go wrong, that one has to compare it with other countries, and so it is not so bad that things go wrong with us too. I don't think that's the right reasoning. We should be able to conclude that, while other countries are doing much worse, we are doing well. Apparently, the stories from abroad serve to hide our own failures. You do not answer the many questions asked, not only in the Chamber, but also in the public and the victims. We regret that. I do not feel that there will suddenly be a vigorous policy. I think you'll continue to pursue your policy with your hands behind your back. I would therefore like to support the request made by several colleagues for the P Committee and the I Committee to carry out an investigation into the management of the information contained in the dossier in question. I also support Mrs De Wit's request for an increase in capacity. In doing so, I address myself to Minister Jambon, who is responsible for the Directorate of Buildings. Mr. Secretary, please work on the new prisons now. Finally, I would also ask that we, the majority and the opposition together, examine the entire criminal execution policy and radicalisation policy. I think that's what the citizen expects from us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u51	Mr. Minister of Justice, your answer was as long as it was disappointing. You have not provided satisfactory answers to the questions you have been asked and to the thoughts that have been brought to you. You may have a mitigating circumstance. You are the only one who has to take on budget cuts decided by the government as a whole in the prison and justice sectors. The previous Governments have also failed to provide adequate resources for prison policies. I recognize that there is a certain hypocrisy in having you bear sole responsibility for the weakness of supervision and the weakness of the budgetary resources for prisons. When I talk about prisons, I think about the people who are locked in them, but also about the people who work there. You quoted Marche prison. It is a new prison, built in a new way, with new methods. But even in this prison, there is a lack of resources, there is a lack of guards, there is a lack of multidisciplinary teams to provide support and rehabilitation for prisoners. I come from the region of Liège and I assure you that I know Lantin's prison. When you go to Lantin, it's a miracle when you come out unharmed, even if you're just visiting the prison! So we must not use the modern and contemporary Marche prison to say that there is no longer any problem. This is not the case and the means to be implemented are still important. Prison remains the university of crime if sufficient resources are not put in place to support prisoners. Your responses, as well as those of the Prime Minister, rightly defend the use of periods of leave, leave and the fact that prisoners can gradually be reintegrated into society. But you continue to institute it in the end of sentence period. And you do not agree to integrate, in the work that is to be done, all the accompanying journey that must start from the first day, step by step. Why not allow previous exits when inmates have the profile that allows them – so not for inmates with dangerous profiles? Whenever possible, you must have the courage to function differently. Prime Minister, you have highlighted the need to defend our values of democracy, freedom and respect for rights. I share them and everyone shares them here. They must be said loud and clear as you do, but to do so, actions and budgetary choices must be made. We must set ourselves concrete steps with assessments and not with reports or commissions that allow us to work without being present on the ground. There is a real need for follow-up and concrete action. I have not heard enough on your part the desire to work not only with the majority and opposition but also in a concrete way with the Regions and the Communities so that together we can mobilize budgetary and human resources so that we can carry out concrete policies on the ground. That's what I expect from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u52	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, we must stop these minutes of silence that give us a good conscience before we move on! Our citizens are waiting not for speeches but for strong actions, measures that will prevent tragedies such as the one in Liège. We must ensure the safety of citizens who are entitled to live their lives freely and without fear. This is the role of a State that respects itself. I hear the questions, but how many attacks are we already at? How much more will it take? How long are we going to question ourselves? Prime Minister, ministers, act! It's more than time!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of this part of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u54	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u55	That is unusual, because you are now creating the right to a new reply to what you will say. However, we have decided to depart from the Rules of Procedure. We shall continue to do so consistently, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u56	Mr President, I would just like to repeat what the Prime Minister said just for the benefit of colleagues, namely that I would very much like to clarify the dossier in full in the Committee on Justice, in all its details. It goes without saying that it is not possible to summarize a 15-year penitentiary history in a plenary session. I've been trying to get the relevant pieces out. I can't possibly view the file in its entirety. No Member of Parliament could follow me. I would very much like to enter into a debate in the Committee on Justice on penitentiary policy and, in particular, on penitentiary leave and the issue of night-time permits. This usually happens with hearings, but of course the committee decides for itself. In that connection, I would like to say one more thing. Although I said it was binary to make a case clear, I did not want to attack services, Mr Bonte. I've been trying to defend services. If they make a decision, then we must dare to respect those decisions. The OCAD database gives seven nuances today. The CelEx database gives four nuances today. If one fits into these categories, then one is in that database. One cannot expect to make 20 nuances, but we are increasing in nuance. Mr President, there is also a misunderstanding. If no provisional release is granted, this does not mean that, in view of the final release, which would take place in 2020 and not, as I said wrongly, in 2018, and after having imposed a penalty for repeated and a time no longer allowing penitentiary leave, the release should not be prepared with penitentiary leave or night-time permits. Penitentiary leave and night-time permits always precede release. Mr Van Cauter knows that as well as I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u57	Mr President, I believe that the additional statement by the Minister of Justice merely underlines how incomplete his answer was and how many unanswered questions remain, including those of Mr Van Hecke. I would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to call together the Conference of Presidents in a moment to see how we can proceed constructively with this House as soon as possible. The Minister spoke of certain information which he himself described as brief. I believe that we must have rapid access to this information. In the Conference of Presidents we must also consider how to order the studies of Committees I and P as soon as possible. I believe that all the groups have reacted in a very cautious and substantive way. The many questions have not been answered and I believe that we in the Conference of Presidents should look at how these answers can be collected as quickly as possible, because I believe that this is absolutely necessary at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u58	Mr President, I am taking the floor for two reasons. First of all, I would like to point out that the last word must be able to come back to Parliament. We are meeting in ordinary plenary, despite the tragic nature of what we are dealing with today. Secondly, as Mrs Onkelinx said, it seems essential to us to be able to do several things quite quickly. Firstly, to convene the Attentats Monitoring Committee. Secondly, ensure that the P Committee and the R Committee are referred as soon as possible. Our citizens have the right to as much information as possible and this can only be done by making our institutions work. That is why we hope that we will organize ourselves quickly, Mr President, so that these various departments can be seized of the issues that remain outstanding and which, still today, constitute shadows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u59	Mr President, Minister, with regard to my comments on the OCAD, I have left you with a literal quote, and you have made this point, and we are on the same lines. I am also on the same line as you say that we should be able to debate thoroughly in committee, in detail. This is not only useful for Parliament, it is also what society is asking for. Two elements are important. Firstly, the speculation or the guard report was effectively known to those who had to decide on penitentiary leave and whether the report effectively warned of someone who was severely radicalised. It is important that this report be brought into full transparency. The second element. This is yet another example of the challenges we face in terms of the flow of information, with the various databases and security services. There is one point that always comes back and on which I have asked a question without getting an answer, and whatever falls within the competence of the Minister for Security, Mr Jambon. If penitentiary leave is granted, this usually happens under conditions. The local police are supposed to co-check those conditions. I have already repeated and illustrated to the grief that this is not working, that this is not happening. In the case of the brutal attack in Liège, I asked whether that person's penitentiary leave was known to the Liège police or not. You may not be able to answer this question at this time, but I would like the answer to it anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u60	First of all, I repeat Mr Laaouej's conclusion with regard to the referral to the R Committee, which was also requested by Mrs Onkelinx, MM. Bonte and Lamotte. Secondly, I take note of Mr de Lamotte's request for the convening of the Attentats Monitoring Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u61	I have received an order motion from Mr Hans Bonte and Annick Lambrecht, which reads as follows:" Having regard to the Act of 20 February 2017 amending the Code of Economic Law and the Law of 25 December 2016 amending the legal status of the detainees and the supervision of prisons and laying down various provisions on justice; - having regard to the fact that the Court adopted this Act on 22 December 2016; - having regard to the fact that Article 119 of that law provides: "A Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Service is to be set up in the Chamber of Representatives', - having regard to the fact that, under Article 120 of that law, one of the tasks of the Supervisory Board is to independently supervise prisons and the treatment of detainees; - having regard to the request of sp.a to set up this Supervisory Board and to provide the necessary budget for it in the context of the discussion of the 2018 budget of the eligible institutions in the Commission for Compatibility of November 2017; - Having regard to the letter from sp.a to the President of the Chamber of the European Parliament of January 2018 to reiterate its call for the rapid establishment of this Supervisory Board; (see Annex) - having regard to the fact that this Supervisory Board has not yet been set up; Invites the Court to proceed as soon as possible with the establishment of the Central Prison Supervisory Board in accordance with the Act of 20 February 2017.' "- Having regard to the Act of 20 February 2017 amending the Code of Economic Law and the Act of 25 December 2016 amending the legal status of detainees and the supervision of prisons and laying down various provisions in the field of justice; - In view of the fact that the House passed this law on 22 December 2016; - In view of the fact that article 119 of the Act provides: "A Central Prison Supervision Board shall be established in the House of Representatives"; - In view of the fact that, under article 120 of the Act, one of the tasks of the Central Council is to exercise independent control over prisons and the treatment of prisoners; - In view of the sp.a.'s request to create this Central Council and to provide the necessary budget in the context of the examination of the 2018 budget of the institutions receiving an allocation within the November 2017 Accounting Committee; - In view of the sp.a.'s letter to the President of the Chamber of January 2018 urging the prompt establishment of this Central Council; (cf. Annex) - In view of the fact that the Central Council has not yet been established; Requests the Chamber to proceed as soon as possible with the establishment of the Central Prison Supervision Board pursuant to the Act of 20 February 2017." Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, we shall be voting on this order of business as a result of the votes, i.e. at the end of the sitting. Then there is Mr Calvo's point. It is a tradition of the House when a group asks to convene the Conference of Presidents to do so effectively. At the end of the plenary session, I will therefore convene the group heads to meet in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u62	The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u63	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u64	Mr President, Prime Minister, yesterday in Brussels, in the sunlight of the early afternoon, in a silence broken by tears, but filled with humanity and dignity, little Mawda joined her last home. She was buried surrounded by her parents and her four-year-old big brother. She will rest forever in Belgium, a land she did not know, a country she had only to cross to reach an island where her parents dreamed for her of a better future. Yesterday, it was also accompanied by thousands of citizens that she was buried, citizens who wanted to pay tribute to her, but also condemn the fate reserved for her last moments of life and denounce the "firm and human" migration policy of this government. Prime Minister, this citizen's tribute will never erase the outrage of the words made against this family bereaved by various personalities of the N-VA, a party that ultimately holds this government. While some do not see "on what basis we would give status to people who have already applied for a status from Germany that has been refused to them" or who believe that "one cannot reward the behaviour of people who cooperate with criminals", I address myself to the politician that you are, but above all to the man that you are, Prime Minister. Will you or will you not grant these bereaved parents in tragic circumstances the right to remain in the country where their little girl resides? I hope you will have the dignity, humanity and above all the courage to say yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u65	Mr President, Prime Minister, these have been difficult weeks. The previous debate has already shown this, and this debate deserves all the attention. Yesterday Mawda's parents had to do what no parent wants, namely bury their child. Mawda was barely two years old. Her parents will never see her grow up. The parents received the support of 1,500 people in a white march to the cemetery in Evere. We too, as a government and as a society, have a responsibility to these parents and this toddler. Their demand for regularisation makes that responsibility very concrete. I therefore call on the government to take this question seriously. In the meantime, the government has raised this question. If it's to make it a political game, I don't think it's a good idea. But if it is to make a joint, united, rapid decision, I can only welcome it. Prime Minister, the least the family can do is stay here until the investigation is completed. The least is that the family is guaranteed to visit Mawda's grave at any time, possibly via a visa. The least we can do is to clarify the family as quickly as possible. My questions are therefore very clear, Prime Minister. Why did you take the power of regularization away from the Secretary of State and turn it into a government case? We've been two weeks. What is the decision of this government?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u66	Mr President, Prime Minister, you remember the dignity of our meeting in the Committee on the Interior ten days ago when we spoke with you about the circumstances and the consequences of the shooting death of this little girl, Mawda, during an arrest that went wrong. The emotion was palpable, precise questions and sober comments. Prime Minister, a member of our Parliament, a member of your majority, party president and mayor in Antwerp, has destroyed this dignity. He used confidential information to try to discredit the parents and accuse them of being responsible for their child's death. A serious step has been taken in the way in which we are contemplating public debate between democrats. You can't let that happen, Prime Minister. You cannot, on the one hand, denounce what you call the trompization of public debate - what I would call the brutalization or enslavement of public debate - and let one of the foundations of our society be damaged: the duty of humanity. After Maisières' drama, we were expecting three things. First a serene, detailed, thorough investigation. She had derailed, following contradictory, hasty comments, far removed from the reality of the Mons prosecutor's office. She was once again dismayed by the interference in this party president's investigation, using conditional information to try to charge the parents. We also expected compassion, humanity. It had to be the policeman himself who reminded Mr. Wever's duty as a human being. I'd like you to do it, too. We were waiting and we are still waiting for the authorities to facilitate the parents' lives and allow them to stay in our country as long as it takes. Prime Minister, I expect you to be able, in these three areas, to take decisions quickly, to restore serenity, to prevent this debate from completely derailing and to take this decision on the right of residence. What can prevent your government from doing so?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u67	Mr President, Prime Minister, little Mawda, who died tragically, was buried yesterday and her parents, whom you received, are living the terrible tragedy that we imagine. A party is overbidding in abomination, a party that is a member of your government. Last Thursday, there was Bart De Wever who, on the basis of evidence drawn illegally from the parents' file, said that "the parents have a great deal of responsibility in the death of their daughter". I also quote a press article about the police officer who shot and said he was bruised: "This police officer himself, despite his delicate situation, was deeply struck by the fact that the responsibility of the parents was considered in such a context." Today, there is this statement by Theo Francken which threatens the rectors of the universities who supported the demand for definitive regularization of Mawda's family. I quote: "If the rectors want to play a little political game on the migration files, they will be faced with a boomerang return." Prime Minister, this is not the first time that the N-VA has threatened representatives of civil society who dare to express a slightly different choice than that of the N-VA. Prime Minister, as far as regularization is concerned, parents have now applied for regularization on a humanitarian basis. The decision is up to the government. Do you support her? Yes or no? Furthermore, what do you intend to do if it appears that it was a member of the government who provided Bart De Wever with the material he disclosed to the press? Last but not least, do you disassociate from the words of Bart De Wever and Theo Francken?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, some ten days ago, a few hours after this absolutely tragic human event, we held a parliamentary committee in which everyone expressed - most of the time, with a lot of sobriety and dignity - their point of view. For my part, I would like to stand by the call I made at that time, because I will not depart from the line I have indicated. Indeed, I consider that it is out of the question of wanting, in one way or another, to instrumentalize such a tragedy. As you know, I have also had the opportunity to meet at length with Mawda's parents and to guarantee them, what I am still doing here, the determination of our democracy to conduct an independent investigation, both judicially and within the framework of Committee P. It is the dignity of a country such as ours to ensure that all the light is shed. In my view, whatever the comments of one or another, what must take precedence is the ability of this investigation to discover the true course of this event and its consequences. A second important point that I would like to confirm again today is that in our legal state three procedures can be followed to obtain a legal residence. The first option is an asylum application. The second possibility is to initiate a procedure based on the law on the victims of smugglers. The third option is the procedure based on Article 9a. I read in the press that the family would have submitted a procedure under Article 9a. But the information that I have at my disposal on the official level, this morning in any case, is that this procedure may have been introduced via a municipality, as the rule provides, but that the Office of Foreigners, at the moment we are talking to each other, has not yet received the request on the basis of Article 9a. My intention is to deal with this issue in full compliance with the rules of the rule of law and democracy, in accordance with the legal framework that applies in Belgium. I will take care to receive, with the Secretary of State and all the members of the government, the various pieces of information that will be collected by the Office of Foreigners. It is only when we are fully informed about all the elements of the file, which I do not yet have at this stage, that it will be possible for the Secretary of State to make a decision. It is the Secretary of State who will make the decision. We will ensure that there is consultation within the government on this sensitive issue. That's the line I'm going to take in this case. We will take responsibility. We will make a decision when the time comes. But I should like to inform Parliament that, as I speak to you, the information that was communicated and verified to me this morning is that the Foreign Office has not yet received the request. When this request is received, we will have to collect from the Office of Foreigners all the elements in order to be able, with full knowledge of the facts, to assume responsibility and to make a decision in this matter. It is clear that the rectors have the right to express their opinion. The Secretary of State has also made it clear that there is no threat. There is no question of threatening anyone. It is a question of respecting all those who want to express a point of view. Freedom of expression must be fully respected. In the same way as freedom of the press and the secrecy of the sources actually lead to information, it seems, being provided on the subject. I will in any case appreciate my responsibility on the basis of the elements of the official file when it is sent to us and not on the basis of the information published in the press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u69	Prime Minister, we do not have the same definition of responsibility or dignity. I do not understand how you dare to come to this Parliament and how you dare to talk to us about procedures, investigations, administrative requests, while we talk to you about the dignity and fate of bereaved parents. Are you only aware, Prime Minister, that with your words, you are reviving the outrage committed against Mawda's parents? [[Brouhahaha]] That I would like to hear this indignity in the face of other words! Prime Minister, the president of your government's main party has spoken revoltingly, without any restraint, without any scruples, without any humanity. He has shown contempt and inhumanity towards parents who have lost a child and he has been followed by members of your government. Bert Bultinck, editor of the Knack, said that these words were not chosen at random, that they had been thought, that they had to sound the alarm and that this lack of restraint had to alert us. Prime Minister, the Socialist Party has been alerting you for months and denouncing - this has not been the case since yesterday - repeated drifts. I don't understand that you're letting your majority partner blow the locks of democracy one by one. Just now, with the words of your Secretary of State, we didn't hear you. Our democracy is in danger, Prime Minister, and we can't hear you! This country no longer needs a reshaping, it needs a start. Prime Minister, take action!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u70	Mr Prime Minister, thank you for the answer and for the serenity you keep in this debate. We have always said that we do not want to draw conclusions until the investigation is completed. It is important that everyone retains that serenity, not only the opposition but also the majority. This is something that concerns us all. It shows how we can deal with such a dossier in a human way. I understand that no application has yet been made. I would ask you to deal with them as soon as possible and as a matter of priority as soon as the application is submitted. Clarity is, after all, important in this. In addition, regardless of the procedure chosen by the family, the government should also consider the following. Their child was buried in Belgium. They have no certainty yet whether they can stay here, but they will one day wish to visit the grave. People can also be admitted to Belgium in another way, in order to allow them to visit their child's grave.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u71	Prime Minister, you did not reframe this parliamentarian, party president, who followed our debates and visibly despises our democracy. You never do! We have to be careful. You feel like you're gradually tipping into another world. We feel that our democracies are now fragile. In a wide range of countries, tribes allow themselves words that are not consistent with our humanist traditions, nor with the foundations of our soothing societies, which can tolerate debate within the framework of a rule of law. You must not let that happen, because we don't know when we could turn ourselves into this new world, or what it might be. I know that you feel it yourself; do not let it happen, for you would be accused of contributing to it. Be firm on these questions. A secretary of state threatens university rectors. He threatens them, you mustn't turn around the pot. Universities are indispensable in our democratic state and in our public debate. They should not think of themselves under threat. My third point concerns the granting of a residence permit. A request is obviously indispensable, but you can already announce that it will be received positively; nothing prevents you from doing so. Indeed, we have this duty of humanity, and we must conduct this investigation in a calm manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u72	Minister, on the subject of regularization, your answer was threefold hypocritical. You mentioned three possibilities, but we already know that the parents have opted for the third, that is, Article 9bis. First of all, on compliance, there is no need to address this issue since it is a discretionary power, a prerogative of the government. This means you can decide. Then you say that you are not in possession of all the elements of the file. Excuse me, but as to whether the aspect is humanitarian or not, the answer is clear. If the parents of little Mawda do not obtain permission to stay in Belgium for humanitarian reasons, the question may arise as to who can obtain it. As for the provocations of Messrs. De Wever and Franken, how can you minimize their abominable words? How can you still govern with a party that balances all human and democratic landmarks?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Van der Donkt, Mr Lachaert and Mr Vercamer have informed me that they have withdrawn their questions to the Prime Minister on the employment pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u74	Deputy Prime Minister, on 8 March, I asked you about the emerging trade dispute between the United States and Europe. It concerned the imposition of customs duties on imports of steel (25 %) and on imports of aluminium (10 %). The European Commission, for its part, demanded a permanent exemption from these customs duties beyond 1 June. Two hours ago, Wilbur Ross, the U.S. Secretary of Commerce, announced the immediate application of these tariffs. I do not hide my concern at the US administration's intransigence towards Europe, when it is known that some countries have been exempted from these tariffs under certain import quotas, and at the collateral effects on growth and employment of a possible new world trade war. In addition, mention should be made of the attitude of some European countries which could play their own part in this problem. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, in the face of a decision that we regret, could we envisage a resumption of negotiations, for example by fixing quotas? In this case, what would be the distribution of these quotas among European countries? A trilateral meeting between Japan, the United States and Europe is supposed to take place on the subject of steel overproduction, because that is where the problem lies. Can we hope for a positive follow-up in view of the decisions to be taken at this meeting? Finally, the Commission has planned a number of countermeasures to date from 20 June. Will these countermeasures be sufficient to impact the United States sufficiently in its decision? Will they not have a negative impact on our European economies?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u75	Mr Minister, there is no more topical question than this because the answer you had prepared is likely to have been changed during this session. After all, it is a black day for world trade. The United States has just announced that they are going to introduce higher tariffs for imports of European steel and aluminium. Last month that decision was postponed, but as of tomorrow it will actually take effect. That is, of course, bad for world trade. President Trump's trade policy creates a great deal of uncertainty for our companies who do not know where they stand. Now there will be some certainty because they know that these tariffs are going to happen. Of course, that is not good for our companies. With this aggressive, protectionist trade policy, the United States is putting pressure on our transatlantic trade relationship. It seems that the classic allies are particularly keen to be seen. I therefore have a number of questions. First of all, what will our reaction be? The European Commission has already given an answer, but I would like to hear from you what countermeasures we will take. Do we immediately request consultations with the World Trade Organisation? Will there also be talks with China to act together? The United States is giving us the message that there is still room to negotiate, but it would be strange to start negotiating with them now with their backs against the wall. That would be a very strange way of working. Secondly, a trade war has actually started. That ending is, of course, quite different. How do you see this transatlantic trade relationship evolving?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u76	Mr President, it is a very black day for world trade and for the evolution of our relations with different partners. This was a very protectionist approach by the American administration. It is a bad decision to impose new tariffs. We have made every effort in recent weeks to establish a dialogue with the United States, and we have had many contacts. Last week we had a Foreign Trade Council at European level and we developed a strategy. We had a number of contacts yesterday at the OECD meeting in Paris. Yesterday, I met Mr. Ross, the U.S. Secretary of Commerce, again. Contacts are therefore continuing between Americans and Europeans. We felt for some time that the evolution would be negative. Unfortunately, today's decision has fallen: rates of 25% on steel and 10% on aluminium have been set. I would point out that this concerns trade with the United States of the order of EUR 6.4 billion a year, to quote last year's European figures. Moreover, this decision does not only affect the European Union, since it also affects the neighbours of the United States: Canada and Mexico. Of course, on this very dark day for international trade, we must react. There is a response from the European Commission and the Member States, with three elements. On 28 May, the European Commission provided the World Trade Organisation with a list of American products. The products on the list could be subject, by 17 June – 30 days later – to rebalancing measures: steel, aluminium, textiles, but also agri-food goods (oranges, cigarettes, cigars, etc.).). This is also the case with aesthetic products. We have also cited famous brands of motorcycles or boats. We need to respond. After all, it is impossible not to respond. It was a united, joint strategy of the European Union to do so, with the list of products as a first reaction. A second reaction is a procedure within the World Trade Organisation. It is entirely logical that on 29 May the Commission took this decision. The dispute settlement procedure will be introduced tomorrow. Then we must take safeguard measures, because products are likely to land on the European market, coming from partners who are subject to the same measures. It is therefore important to develop good contacts with Mexico and Canada. Nevertheless, we must remain aware of the risks to the European market in the event of the destabilization of other parts of the world also affected by American measures. For Belgium, the American decision has a direct impact on our industry such as steel and aluminium, but there is also an indirect effect, for example on ports, and certainly on those of Antwerp. It is very important for us to give a real response. It is not just a response from Belgium, but from the whole of the European Union. We must work with a full unity of the European Union, the Commission and the Member States. We must do this in coordination with partners, but we must also accept a real American debate on overcapacity. We have already done so ourselves in Europe, in certain sectors such as steel. The level playing field needs to be discussed in a number of sectors, including dumping that may exist. This is a debate we have with China. To answer your questions, we want to do everything we can to avoid a trade war, but we can't stay unreactioned. We need a response from the European Union. However, I reiterated yesterday in a panel with the US Secretary of Trade, we are still open to a dialogue on strengthening world trade through the modernization of the WTO. But this dialogue can only take place if the partners act in a correct way vis-à-vis each other. Mr President, I hope it is a day that does not bode well for other dark days in the future. As you know, a NATO summit will be held in Brussels in July. Of course, we want to reaffirm the transatlantic partnership, but in this partnership, each partner must behave properly. If this is not the case, we must react.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u77	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. It is true that the United States was a great country at the economic level, a leader in world trade, and it is regrettable that it is now sinking into protectionism that is damaging to the world economy. I note from your answer that retaliatory measures are possible. It's necessary. You also intend to pursue a dialogue – this is important – and you are considering other bilateral agreements. The CETA will normally be signed with Canada soon. This is a good opportunity for our European countries. There is also an agreement with Japan and it could be reactivated or expanded. Finally, a mandate has just been given for negotiations with Australia and New Zealand. I hope, Deputy Prime Minister, that this American decision will allow us to bounce back. This is essential to create growth and jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I believe that we can summarize this as follows: President Trump is wrong. The past has already shown this. President Trump believes he's hitting us and our partners, but he's actually hitting the United States a lot more. We must not lose sight of our businesses, and we must, above all, ensure today that this does not escalate. We must not rush the conflict. We must try to avoid the conflict as much as possible. It takes two to tango and therefore it is logical that this happens in consultation. Above all, we must rely on our own strength. I therefore fully agree with taking the necessary countermeasures against the measures put in place by President Trump.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u79	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u80	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u81	Mr President, I will not repeat the whole report, but I will highlight some aspects of it. I would like to remind you in a few words of the importance of this bill introduced by the Minister of Finance. This is a major project approving the statute of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. This Asian Bank was established in June 2015, with the objective of promoting sustainable economic growth in this region of the world. Belgium was not one of the founding members. As questions had been asked about the environmental and social practices that were to be implemented, answers had been provided. In order to close the accession procedure, Belgium must approve the statutes of the establishment and accept the resolution of the board of directors. Our country will earn 2,846 shares in the establishment for a total of US$284.6 million. A number of questions have been asked by our colleague Mr. Van Peteghem, on the possible economic repercussions, and on environmental and social conditions. He also wondered whether it was appropriate to limit himself to such an amount. Ms Capoen asked about the importance of the Bank in our relations with China and the region as a whole. Mr. Van der Maelen asked about the relations between the different Member States of the European Union. The Minister replied that structured consultation was organised and implemented within the Eurogroup. In response to questions about environmental and social standards, the Minister responded that these are those that are also applied by the World Bank. Various questions have been asked about relations with the United States and Japan, particularly by myself. These two countries are not part of the founding members of this bank. Responses were provided by the minister who informed us that Japan's attitude was evolving on this issue. Finally, a final member of the committee spoke. This is our colleague Mr Flahaux, who insisted on China's attitude. But I understand that he intends to develop his point of view in the rostrum. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the bill as a whole was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u82	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before us today represents much more than simply approving the statutes of an umpteenth development bank. Belgium's accession to the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank is a much larger issue. As I pointed out in this House last January on a topical issue to the Secretary of State, Mr. From Crem, our country's participation is aimed at achieving a dual objective. First of all – it is knowingly that I quote this objective first – it is a matter for us to monitor, from the inside, compliance with the rules of international financing of infrastructure in the social, human rights and environmental fields. This is more important than it might appear at first glance, as the Bank's activities are carried out mainly in countries which, unfortunately, afford low social protection to workers. Second, the accession of Belgium will allow our companies to penetrate more into local markets and thereby increase their visibility in Asia. This agreement will, I hope, have an exponentially encouraging effect on our economy by allowing us to be present and active in the most dynamic region in the world. Colleagues, if we naturally approve of this bill, allow me, however, on behalf of the MR, to make a few remarks. First of all, I would like to continue to raise awareness of the issue of respect by this bank for environmental rights and human rights, including social rights. It seems to me extremely important that Belgium pay particular attention to the ethical behaviour of this institution. In addition, the Bank will have to find its rightful place in comparison to other similar credit institutions, such as the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank (of Japanese origin) or the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Belgium will have to pay particular attention to ensuring that better coordination between these banks is found, in order to avoid the pitfall of competition between these different financing institutions. Finally, geopolitical issues should not be forgotten. The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank will mainly finance China's project on a new silk road, One Belt, one road (OBOR), titaniumsque in scope and cost. The development of transport and communication infrastructure in a region of the world that is sorely lacking will allow better connectivity between territories and thus will only encourage the flow of goods but also of people. On paper, we can only support the Chinese President's initiative. However, we will have to be careful that this silk road project is not only used to increase hegemony in the region of what can be called the Middle Empire. There is a very real risk that tensions between China and its neighbours, particularly Japan and India, will escalate as a result. Thus, projects supported by the Bank will have to maintain a certain balance in the region. Finally, I would add that the absence in this bank of the United States and Japan, which are members of the other banks, must be noted. Mr Minister, we believe that Belgium's accession to the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank can only be beneficial overall. This will allow our companies to have access to major projects in various sectors such as underground work for the metro, the construction of power plants and port projects including dredging. Mr President, in conclusion and in the light of the elements I have developed, the MR Group broadly supports this project dedicated to the development of infrastructure in an expanding region of the world and hopes that Belgium will benefit from the expertise it will bring.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u83	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u84	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3043/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3043/3) The title was changed by the committee to "draft law approving the statutes and resolution No. 24 of the Board of Governors of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank'. The title has been amended by the committee in "Bill approving the statutes and resolution No. 24 of the Board of Governors of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank". The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u85	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u86	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1799: Els Van Hoof, Nahima Lanjri, Nathalie Muylle, Valerie Van Peel, Benoît Piedboeuf, Ine Somers - 1406: Fabienne Winckel, Philippe Blanchart, Karine Lalieux, Daniel Senesael, Gwenaëlle Grovonius. I propose that a single general discussion be devoted to the two proposals. I propose that you devote a single general discussion to these two proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u87	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u88	I refer to the written report, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u89	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly pleased that today we can vote on the genital mutilation bill. Today we can make a crucial step forward in the fight against genital mutilation, a horrific practice that is contrary to our standards and values of equality between men and women. I am also very pleased that we unanimously approved the proposal in the Committee on Health. I hope for similar support in plenary later. As a Parliament, we are sending out a very important signal. Ladies and gentlemen, how do we do that? How do we stop a horrible yet deeply rooted cultural practice? We do this by focusing on prevention and protection as well as repression. I believe that we must take steps here in Belgium on all these fronts. I am convinced that my bill and the motion for a resolution allow us to take important steps to change something substantial in the situation of the numerous victims of genital mutilation. Tortures don't tolerate taboo. The UN explicitly recognised genital mutilation as torture in 2008. It's a form of sexual violence. It is a horrific expression of a world view in which women must be submissive and in which women must not have sexual pleasure but only be there to serve their husbands. It is estimated that 200 million girls and women worldwide have undergone genital mutilation. Most victims of genital mutilation, over 90 million, are found in Africa. But also in Belgium it is not a far-from-our-bed show, because the practice was imported into Belgium. A recent study by the Institute and the Public Health Office shows that the figures in Belgium have tripled in ten years. Belgium has more than 70 500 women from countries where female genital mutilation is applied. Around 17 000 have already been circumcised and more than 8 000 are at risk of genital mutilation. These are alarming figures. Behind these figures and statistics are always people, girls and women, who experience that horrific experience. Following the bill, a woman from Mali contacted me. She had fled with her four-year-old daughter. She was also pregnant, had already had two miscarriages and suffered a lot of pain. Her biggest fear was that her child would be the victim of the same practice. Here too in Belgium, as in Mali, pressure is being put on to continue the practice. We can't abandon these women. The bill that is being discussed here today will increase the fight in two ways. Firstly, the bill provides for compulsory registration of genital mutilation in the hospital file. It is important to detect and register genital mutilation as early as possible. This allows victims to be better and more quickly supervised and treated, by speeding up the warning signal for doctors and nurses. Today they are still looking away with care, but at that time they will be obliged to see what type of genital mutilation occurred and what region the victims came from. The intention is that at that time, help will be provided by the hospitals. With the registration in the hospital file, we can collect much better data and better map the problems of genital mutilation. The figures already mentioned are estimates and extrapolations, but we can finally measure and know through registration. We choose to make the registration happen in the first place in the hospital, because the vast majority of births, where the problem of genital mutilation is clearly reflected, are still taking place in the hospital today. After childbirth, doctors are often asked about re-infibulation. The reference centres for genital mutilation in Ghent and Brussels also operate through the hospital file. We want the bill to anchor the registration and extend it to all hospitals. Another important step we are taking to step up the fight against genital mutilation in the legislative proposal is the extension of the right of reporting by professionals. Today, the professional can only report genital mutilation when it comes to a minor. But adult women are also victims of circumcision or re-circumcision. That is why the proposal extends the right of notification to all women, not only underage but also adult women. That's important. When a woman has a child, it is common in some countries of origin for the woman to be sewn on again. Testimonies show that doctors and gynecologists who work in Belgium have also been asked to re-infibulate. Many women who want to marry at a later age and are not circumcised also get the question, from the family, to first undergo circumcision, before marriage. The choice they then have is not really there: it is the choice between either being marginalized or undergoing circumcision. That pertinent threat can be reported with the proposal, which can make a substantial difference for those girls and women. However, I would stress that it is a right of the professional; it is not a duty. It is the doctor himself who decides whether to exercise that right or not. The doctor can report that to the King's Attorney. In turn, such facts can be transferred to the Family Justice Centers, to the correctional court or to the family court or, as Minister Geens's letter states, he can talk to the family and submit a signed statement that they will no longer proceed to genital mutilation of their children. As you can see from the amendments that have been adopted to the legislative proposal, the aspect of the extension of the right of notification has been adjusted in particular. We have sought the advice of many organisations and have also responded to the recommendations of, among others, the Institute for Equality between Women and Men and the Council of State. In the amended version, we would like to extend the right of professional notification for all offences identified, as listed in Article 458a of the Criminal Code. These include female genital mutilation and crimes committed because of cultural motives, customs, traditions, religion or so-called honour. In this way, we bring our legislation into line with the Istanbul Convention, which provides that each Member State must ensure that a professional or a healthcare professional can break his professional secrecy at the time of honour-related violence. We have taken very strong account of the various opinions. We have taken the necessary steps to come up with a supported proposal today. I am therefore grateful for your support in bringing the legislative proposal to a successful conclusion. I believe that we are now taking important steps in the fight against this horrific mutilation of women. For me, it is not only a political battle, but also a fight as a women's rights activist, a battle that I will continue after my political battle in Belgium and in Africa. I think we should be grateful that we can fight this battle together in Parliament. It's about torture. The motion for a resolution also refers to this. Women are marginalised if they do not engage in genital mutilation. It is therefore a good thing that organisations such as GAMS and Intact, as mentioned in the motion for a resolution, are engaged in the fight against genital mutilation. The text calls for further steps to be taken in the right direction. It is therefore to be welcomed that government policy is supported across party boundaries. Thanks to an update and amendments, the resolution proposal also takes into account, for example, the Secretary of State Demir's reporting code and the Minister of Justice's circular on honour-related violence. The text also supports the creation of two aid centres in Ghent and Brussels. Colleagues, every step towards a world without women's unfriendly practices is crucial. That is why it is a good thing that we, together, majority and opposition, government and Parliament, continue to fight for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u90	Mr President, Mr Van Hoof, thank you for this speech and for taking the initiative with this proposal. I think most of it's been said. The bill was passed unanimously, so everyone here knows what it's about. It is a horrible crime against women and often very young girls, with lifelong consequences. This bill can bring every act to light here. That's what it starts with. I wonder whether the hallucinatory figures available to us today are correct and whether compulsory registration will not prove to be even higher. The fact that this has also been taken into account is also why I fully support this proposal. We must first of all bring out as much as possible. Mr Van Hoof, the second element was indeed a discussion on professional secrecy. That's a discussion I've had before in other files. There is always, rightly, a need for a lot of discussion about professional secrecy. I understand why. I still think that is a very important fact for a relationship between a health care professional or a social worker and a patient. That is undoubtedly the case, but I am also sticking to it, including in this file, that professional secrecy has never meant to be absolute. Fortunately, we all agreed on this very quickly. There have always been exceptions. I believe that one of the first people to sneak in there was child abuse, because it is about victims who cannot defend their rights themselves. I fear that in this case it is the same reasoning that the victims concerned have been caught up in a net and that it is also here to show that it is better for professional secrecy to be broken. That's what we landed on. I have already said in committee that I personally believe that the proposal could have gone even further and that we should have introduced a duty to speak, which obliges any health care provider who runs the risk of genetic mutilation, i.e. torture, to report that to the public. However, I assume that the interpretation of this right will make the good caregivers we have in this country understand that it must feel like a duty to them. My group, too, will definitely support this proposal. Secretary of State Zuhal Demir has also been fighting genital mutilation for some time, together with her colleague Geens, by the way. They have developed this action plan with reporting codes for doctors. The professional secrecy was a huge obstacle. I therefore believe that this amendment of the law is a good answer to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u91	Mr President, I agree with what the speaker has said at 100%. We will, of course, also support this bill. I've been asking questions about this problem for years. I believe that everyone shares these concerns. This bill is certainly a step in the right direction. I just wanted to pick up on what Mr Van Peel said, namely that she personally wanted to go a step further by making the right to speak compulsory. My group shares that view. We have therefore amended the bill so that it is no longer optional for doctors to inform the King's Attorney because it still maintains an escape route that should not exist for such terrible phenomena. I fully share the view. I therefore hope that Mrs van Peel will support our amendment in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u92	I'd like to respond to that. I fully support this morale. Unfortunately, the Council of State is not fully involved in the assessment. For that reason, we have landed on a right to speak. However, I assume that caregivers will see this as a duty now that the possibility is being created.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u93	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, according to the latest figures from UNICEF, 200 million women and girls around the world have already suffered a form of genital mutilation, a violent act that causes infections, diseases, complications during childbirth and sometimes leads to death. It is a cruel act that also inflicts persistent moral suffering on women who are victims of it. Despite international conventions prohibiting such harmful practices, they remain widespread, mainly in Africa. Our country, like other Western countries that host populations affected by these practices, faces both the problem of preventing the risk of mutilation and the treatment of the consequences of these mutilations on women's health. The study of the prevalence of female genital mutilation in Belgium, conducted by the Institute of Tropical Medicine in 2014, was a disturbing finding. It was estimated that more than 13,000 excise women and girls lived in Belgium and that 4,000 girls were still considered "at risk". According to a more recent 2016 study by the Institute for Gender Equality, these figures have increased. These excised women are estimated to be more than 17,000 and more than 8,000 are at risk. While Belgium has legally condemned these mutilations since 2001, by providing for prison sentences for anyone who has practiced, facilitated or promoted any form of mutilation of a woman's genitals, with or without her consent, very few cases have been registered with the judicial authorities of our country to date. Between 2009 and 2013, only 14 cases were reported to have been registered with the Public Prosecutor's Office. I therefore look forward to seeing these two texts, both Mrs Van Hoof's bill and our motion for a resolution. I look forward to seeing these texts on our benches today. I thank all the colleagues in the Committee on Health and its chairman, who have agreed to carry out constructive work in this indispensable fight against genital mutilation. It is true that many things have already been done in our country to help the victims. I am thinking in particular of the establishment of two medical centres for the care and reconstruction of excise women, namely CeMAViE (Centre Médical d'Aide aux Victimes de l'Excision) and the Multidisciplinair Centrum Genitale Mutilatie, which advise, prescribe and coordinate the appropriate care. It is also true that these centres were set up thanks to the minister of the time, Mrs Laurette Onkelinx, who fought a lot for this cause. I am also thinking of the awareness and training sessions organized by the Public Health FPS since 2012 in various hospitals across the country. Today, through this resolution, we wish to recall how much more needs to be done in various areas to prevent such mutilation and to help women who are victims of it. I would also like to highlight today the important work that is being done daily in our country by field organisations such as GAMS or Intact, organizations that must continue to support financially so that they can continue to carry out their mission. Our motion for a resolution also seeks to further strengthen our policy on the fight against mutilation across various lines. I'll mention a few of them. 1. Awareness-raising, mentoring and support of affected communities. 2. Information and ongoing training for professionals in contact with these victims or at risk. 3. The implementation of the 2015-2019 National Plan of Action to Combat All Forms of Gender-Based Violence with - and this is crucial - an evaluation of the specific measures that are targeted and that help to combat female genital mutilation. 4. The appointment of reference persons, particularly in hospitals and in the police and judicial services. 5. The need to continue to work with the Regions and the Communities to establish a system for identifying and recording cases of mutilation so that reliable and comparable annual data are available. 6. The need to advocate, in our bilateral diplomatic relations, with third countries concerned with this issue for the introduction of legislation prohibiting female genital mutilation. In conclusion, as studies show, female genital mutilation is still a sad reality in many countries, including ours, which is no exception. It is therefore our duty to continue to act to ensure that these mutilations are no longer invisible and that the affected women and girls are given adequate preventive and protective measures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u94	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of female genital mutilation is particularly serious. Indeed, they undermine a number of principles to which we are committed: physical integrity, gender equality, and the rejection of middle-aged practices. These mutilations are the legacy of a religious conception that no longer corresponds to modern morals and behaviour and whose physical and psychological consequences are condemned. Such practices should not be considered acceptable on the grounds that they are the result of cultural differences and it is important that such behaviour cannot be reasonably accommodated. In view of the migratory phenomena and in order for our country to fulfil its international obligations in the fight against mutilation, more attention must be paid to them. It is therefore proposed, on the one hand, to reform the regulations on professional secrecy and, on the other hand, to make it compulsory to register mutilations in the hospital file. We subscribe to it. The Minister of Justice, the College of Attorneys General and the Justice Commission agreed to the bill. At the same time, the Groupement des Gynecologists Obstetriciens de Langue Française de Belgique has already, in July 2016, endorsed the principle. The Order of Physicians, it is true, has given a more tatillon opinion on the matter, in particular because of professional secrecy. However, it was recalled that the proposal referred to a right of speech rather than an obligation, as was the case in other countries. Many initiatives have already been taken in our country: the National Action Plan 2015 - 2019, the medical centres, which my colleague recalled the action for the care of excise women. The motion for a resolution referred to in the next item on our agenda takes up these points. We agree with the various texts proposed today. These are further steps in the fight against genital mutilation. They're important. We must and must continue to develop an ambitious policy to combat all forms of gender-based violence, based in particular on the Council of Europe Convention. The MR Group will particularly enthusiastically support this proposal by our colleague, co-signed by all the groups and adopted unanimously by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me be clear: for my group, genital mutilation is a horrific crime, whether it is about girls or women, but it is also about boys, if it is not about a medically necessary procedure. Genital mutilation is an attack on the physical integrity of sometimes very young children. That is something we want to combat by all means. More than 17 000 women and girls who have been circumcised live in our country. Another 8 500 are at risk of being circumcised. These are figures from the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. A few months ago there was even a rumor that female circumcisions would happen in our own country, under our noses. A number of cities were mentioned in this context. Fortunately, this has still not been confirmed. I sincerely hope that it will remain rumors. It does prove that we need to be extremely alert and that we need to take a number of concrete measures to step up the fight against genital mutilation and to improve a number of existing measures. That is what is being done in this legislative proposal and this resolution, quite rightly. The proposal contains a number of measures that deal directly with the problem. The resolution sets out a number of lines that will make it even better to implement a preventive and, above all, a restrictive policy in the future. For those who are not yet clear, our group will also vote for these two points with full conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u96	Mrs Gerkens has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u97	Mr President, interesting work has been carried out in the Committee on Public Health on the basis of Mrs Winckel et al.'s motion for a resolution and Mrs Van Hoof et al.'s proposal for a law. These two texts are indeed necessary to help us combat genital mutilation, which physically and psychologically damage too many girls, girls and women, including in Belgium. The debates were long. We have asked for opinions on the bill, not on its part "integration into the medical record of the mutilated person" – even if it is important – but on the possibility for healthcare providers to break their professional secrecy. Such a measure should be taken with all necessary vigilance. The text we have adopted grants this right. It also confirms the notion of violence against women because of the traditions of honour killings. Such clarifications will enable health care providers to report such incidents. However, it is important to maintain their ability to appreciate and evaluate, for the time necessary, the best way to preserve the relationship of trust. It is essential that people who suffer or may suffer from such mutilation – because they are likely to be forced to do so – can confide in and explain what is likely to happen to them and that measures can be taken without their being in a situation of family exclusion or return to their country because they could not be truly helped. It is because this text has become balanced that we have supported this integration into Article 458bis of the Criminal Code. With regard to the resolution, it was interesting to adopt additional recommendations to the bill in order to re-establish it in a more comprehensive context that must mobilize all of us within the framework of our shared and cross-jurisdictional powers, but also within the framework of our federal competences, in particular to evaluate the mechanisms put in place, such as the upcoming National Action Plan to Combat All Forms of Gender-Based Violence 2015-2019. There is also a need to look at the medical centres that are functioning, asking about the difficulties encountered and the improvements they wish to see made. In addition, it is necessary to take stock with them in order to obtain information on the persons who attend these centres, how, with what difficulties and with what ability to express themselves. The appointment of a reference person in hospitals, in the police, in magistrates is obviously more than necessary, given the delicate approach that must be taken to these unacceptable abuses and those victims who find themselves in a difficult situation. There is therefore a need for trained staff who can really help all stakeholders. All these aspects are addressed in the text of the resolution, not to mention the collaborations to be strengthened with associations such as GAMS and Intact, which should not be forgotten in budgetary terms. Indeed, it is said that they are indispensable intermediaries with whom to work, if they are not given the budgetary means to hire the necessary staff, these associations will find themselves unable to fulfil their mission. This would be catastrophic because they are known and have the confidence of the women and girls concerned. These, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, are the elements for which Ecolo-Groen voted in favour of both the bill and the resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will of course support the main principles of these proposals. This is a challenging and gravissimistic issue. It is therefore important to support women who, more than others, are in a very vulnerable situation. The first priority for these women, young women or adolescent girls is medical and psychological care. They must also be able to benefit from social and legal assistance. Today, it must be noted that, on the ground, there is still progress to be made so that the various services can take on a specific and special responsibility, in addition to their already very important workload. I therefore urge the majority and the government to ensure that, beyond these texts, the Minister of Health can truly include the issue of the fight against female genital mutilation in an ad hoc inter-ministerial conference. The federal government is not the only one concerned; the federated entities are also competent. Different ministries could work together, in their own skills, to try to remove weak links in the overall management of the problem of female genital mutilation. I'll make two reservations about this. The first is the way in which you have proceeded to amend article 458 bis of the Criminal Code, which deals with the lifting of medical secrecy. Various stakeholders in the voluntary sector, including GAMS, the Order of Physicians, certain actors in the justice system and the College of Attorneys-General, were in favour of maintaining Article 458bis of the Criminal Code as it stands today. Indeed, the vulnerability of women, violence including sexual violence and the problem of minors are already directly covered by existing Article 458bis. In fact, there is some inconsistency since the circular of the College of Attorneys General as it exists for this subject does not include the same name as that contained in this bill. This is all the more problematic because the College of Attorneys General had made it clear that honour-related violence was even wider than what you decided to see in article 458bis of the Criminal Code. In the end, this could exclude specific situations from its scope. In my opinion, we shouldn't have touched it. I plead that the Minister of Justice ask the College of Attorneys General to adapt the circular in order to achieve consistency between the various texts. It also seems to me essential to stress that it is extremely important to ensure that women do not lack such confidence in the caregivers and doctors they will no longer consult. I heard colleagues calling for a reporting obligation on the part of doctors. I recall that doctors are not investigators and that if you transform Article 458bis on the lifting of professional secrecy as an obligation to lift it, at the end, these vulnerable and abused women will no longer have an interest in seeing a doctor. Any judicial process will not make it possible to make progress in favour of the women concerned. As regards the inclusion in the hospital medical file, I would like to remind my colleagues that this is only one element. This will not, on the contrary, allow for information that follows the patient. This also raises questions about the confidentiality of data. It's delicate. Despite these points of attention, which perhaps should have been addressed differently, we will support these texts. This is an important societal issue for these vulnerable women.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the initiative taken by the authors of the two texts to recall that in our country, perhaps beyond what could be conceived, the practice of female genital mutilation has unfortunately affected many victims. Moreover, it is known that young girls, before the age of five, are exposed to this type of risk or even to this act of barbarism. I would like to commend the work of a number of personalities from the medical, associative and political worlds for many years. I am thinking in particular of my colleague Fatoumata Sidibe, who, in the Brussels Parliament, has advanced the awareness of this reality at the very heart of our country. It is not the only one, and I welcome the work done by all those responsible to remind us that we cannot remain silent and passive in the face of this scandalous practice. The texts offer new opportunities for professionals to act and better inform families most at risk. Let us not hide it, the work will still be long because, for some families, too impregnated with what they believe to be a tradition, a fact of culture or, even more serious, the acceptance of a form of submission, they must be told that there is also a stretched hand that will allow them to take another step in respect for the dignity and protection of their children. Thank you to those who took the initiative on these proposals. This must mobilize us more than ever, because it is simply the conviction that we must have that this type of practice will one day be permanently eradicated in our country in order to be eradicated in others as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u100	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u101	We understand the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 1799 on. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1799/10) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 1799. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1799/10) The title was changed by the committee to "legislative proposal on tackling violence for the sake of culture, custom, religion, tradition or so-called "honor," including genital mutilation." The title was amended by the commission to "proposal for a law on combating acts of violence committed in the name of culture, custom, religion, tradition or so-called "honour", including genital mutilation". The bill has 6 articles. The bill has 6 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u102	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u103	Held: the vote on the amendment and Article 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u104	Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 3 to 6.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u105	****** We take note of the discussion of the proposal for resolution No. 1406 on. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1406/6) We're going to the discussion. Motion for a resolution No 1406. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1406/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u106	The meeting's over. The vote on the proposal will take place later. The discussion is closed. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u107	I have received an order motion from Mrs Veerle Wouters and Mr Hendrik Vuye, which reads as follows:"Article 54 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber provides that any member of the Chamber may, during a procedural debate, request the floor on the proceedings of the Chamber. Any procedural motion shall be communicated in writing to the President. For some time now, a debate has been going on on whether or not to replace the F-16. In this debate, e-mails are being leaked to several political groups. We also note that the Minister denies having received e-mails stating that it is possible to extend the lifetime of the F-16. In the Commission for Defence of 16 December (CRIV 54 COM 895), my colleague Dirk Van der Maelen read an e-mail dated 18 September 2017 (CRIV 54 COM 895, 9). According to our colleague, this e-mail is addressed to Lieutenant General Claude Van de Voorde and in cc. Sent to Secretary of Defense Vandeput. Minister Vandeput replied that Lieutenant General Claude Van de Voorde was no longer the head of the cabinet at the time, that it was possible that the mail had not arrived. He denies that he himself received this e-mail. Colleague Van Der Maelen also refers to an email from 2012. These e-mails were not handed over to the committee members. Other political groups are likely to have received e-mails. This is in any case the case for the V&W Group. Some of these e-mails have made the names of sender or recipient unreadable. A healthy democratic debate presupposes an informed debate. This is difficult if certain documents cannot be consulted by all Members of Parliament. Nor can the Minister defend himself against e-mails of which he does not even know the sender. The current way of working makes a fairly political debate impossible, both for the MPs and for the minister. However, a serene debate has been conducted on the basis of facts and an added value in a democracy. This is all the more so since a motion of censure was announced in the Committee for Defence (22 May 2018, CRIV 54 COM 900) after an interplay. This motion is for the Members of Parliament to vote today. Yesterday, the president of sp.a announced an e-mail dated 6 April 2017. In order to allow Members of Parliament to take an informed position, the V&W Group believes that the e-mails should be made public. We ourselves received two e-mails, an e-mail dated 5 November 2012 and an e-mail dated 11 April 2017. The email of 11 April 2017 is addressed to the Minister, via the address of his secretariat. This is the address at which the Minister can be registered according to Belgium.be (https://www.belgium.be/fr/addresses et sites/cabets/steven vandeput). Lieutenant General Claude Van de Voorde State in cc. On 11 April 2017, according to our information, he is still in office as head of the cabinet. This mail of April 11 refers to the email of April 6 which was published yesterday. The mail of 11 April also explicitly states that the F-16s can be renewed for a minimum of 4,000 hours of flight time. This afternoon, the V&W Group received a new e-mail. This is an e-mail that has not yet been included in the debate. He didn't show up in the press either. According to our informant, this e-mail came from the DOD. This mail dates from 6 September 2017 and is addressed to Minister of Defence Steven Vandeput. It can be read that, at the request of the Minister of Defence, the study and research work on the extension of lifespan will be discontinued. It is high time that the Minister had the opportunity to defend himself on the ground. That is why we add our three e-mails to this order-movement of which they are an integral part. We call on the other groups that have received e-mails to also deposit their e-mails so that the Chamber can give its opinion on this matter and the Minister has the opportunity to defend and justify himself. For these reasons, applicants ask the Chamber to request the Minister of Defence to take a stand on these e-mails, to confirm their authenticity and, more specifically, to deny or deny having received these e-mails of 11 April 2017 and 6 September 2017." I have received a point of order from Mrs Veerle Wouters and Mr Hendrik Vuye, which reads as follows: "Rule 54 of the Rules of the House provides that any member of the House may, in the course of a debate, request the floor in connection with the proceedings of the House on a point of order. The point of order must be communicated in writing to the Chair. A debate has been under way for some time as to whether or not to replace the F-16s. In this debate, e-mails are very often leaked and disclosed to several political groups. We also note that the Minister denies having received emails confirming the possibility of extending the life of the F-16s. At the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 16 May (CRIV 54 COM 895), our colleague Dirk Van der Maelen read an e-mail dated 18 September 2017 (CRIV 54 COM 895, 9). According to our colleague, this e-mail was sent to Lieutenant-General Claude Van de Voorde and was sent in cc to the Minister of Defence. Mr. Vandeput replied that Lieutenant-General Claude Van de Voorde was no longer a Chief of Staff at that time and that it was possible that this email had not arrived. He denies having received this e-mail himself. Mr. Van der Maelen also refers to an email from 2012. These e-mails were not sent to the members of the commission. Other political groups may also have received e-mails. In any event, this is the case for the V&W group. On some of these emails, the names of the sender or recipient(s) were rendered unreadable. A healthy and democratic debate requires an informed discussion. This condition can hardly be met if some documents are not available to all Members. Nor is the Minister able to defend himself against emails of which he does not even know the sender. The current working method makes free political debate impossible for both Members of Parliament and the Minister. A calm, fact-based debate is, however, an added value in a democracy. This principle applies all the more as a motion of distrust was announced in the National Defence Commission (22 May 2018, CRIV 54 COM 900) following an inquiry. Members of the House of Commons are today to take a decision on this motion. Yesterday, the president of sp.a submitted an email on April 6, 2017. In order to allow Members to take an informed position, the V&W Group believes that emails should be made public. We received two emails ourselves, one from November 5, 2012 and one from April 11, 2017. The April 11, 2017 email is sent to the Minister via the email address of the Minister's secretariat. This is the address at which you can write an email to the minister according to belgium.be (https://www.belgium.be/en/addresses_et_sites/cabinets/steven_vandeput). Lieutenant-General Claude Van de Voorde is indicated in cc. According to our information, he was still in service as a Chief of Staff on April 11, 2017. This April 11th email refers to the April 6th email that was unveiled yesterday. Also in the April 11 email, it is expressly stated that the life of F-16s can be extended by a minimum of 4,000 flying hours. This noon, the V&W Group received a new e-mail that has not yet been mentioned in the debates so far, nor has it been revealed in the press. According to our informant, this email is from the Defence Administrative Service. It is dated 6 September 2017 and is addressed to Defence Minister Steven Vandeput. It states that the study and research activities relating to the extension of the lifespan of F-16s are terminated at the request of the Minister of Defence. It is high time that the minister had the opportunity to defend himself on the merits. That is why we attach our three emails to this point of order, of which they are all part. We call on other groups that have received e-mails to table them as well, so that the House can speak on this matter and the minister can defend himself and justify himself. For these reasons, the authors ask the Chamber to request the presence of the Minister of Defence and to ask him to take a position on these e-mails and their authenticity, in particular, to confirm or deny that he received these e-mails of April 11, 2017 and September 6, 2017." This motion was sent to everyone electronically. We will vote on this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u108	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 May 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mrs Evita Willaert cs) providing better protection for maternity leave for workers who are ill or victims of an accident, No. 3120/1
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u109	- the bill (Mrs Catherine Fonck) on the termination of pregnancy, No. 3123/1
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u110	- the bill (Mr Roel Deseyn cs) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 in order to extend the tax shelter to the gaming industry, No. 3128/1
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u111	- the proposal (Mr Siegfried Bracke) to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives concerning the electronic circulation of parliamentary documents, No. 3132/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u112	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 May 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law (Ms. Muriel Gerkens and Evita Willaert et al.) to improve the protection of maternity leave for workers who are sick or victims of accidents, No. 3120/1
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u113	- the proposed law (Ms. Catherine Fonck) on termination of pregnancy, No. 3123/1
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u114	- the proposal for a law (Mr Roel Deseyn et al.) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 with a view to extending the tax shelter to the video game industry, No. 3128/1
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u115	- the proposal (Mr Siegfried Bracke) to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives with regard to the electronic distribution of parliamentary documents, No. 3132/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u116	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u117	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on pleasure boating, No. 3105/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the draft law on pleasure boating, No. 3105/1. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have accepted the custom of motivating urgency. Don't you have a motive? Then I fear that urgency must be discussed as soon as there are motives. That'll be for next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u118	In accordance with the opinion of the Management Committee and the Conference of Presidents of 30 May 2018, I propose that you immediately put an end to the tradition of not taking into account the absence of party chairmen in plenary votes when calculating attendance. In accordance with the opinion of the Governance Committee and the Conference of Presidents of 30 May 2018, I propose that you put an end today to the tradition of not counting the absences of party presidents for the calculation of attendances during plenary voting. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Hans Bonte and Mrs Annick Lambrecht. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, applicants are given five minutes to explain them. Anyone who wishes to intervene afterwards can do so by giving an explanation of vote of two minutes per speaker. Mr Bonte has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u120	Mr President, I would like to say a few words about this, because it has already been discussed in the topical and urgent debate. A number of years ago, 22 December 2016, to be precise, we adopted a law that provided in Article 119 that a Central Prison Supervisory Board would be set up in the Chamber of Representatives. That is a very clear provision, which the Court is partly entrusted with a new task. Prior to adoption, it was effectively agreed that the existing committee within the Department of Justice should be dissolved. The word 'radicalisation in prisons' and 'living conditions in prisons' have very often been mentioned here today. However, it is also an incredible gap and an incredible deficiency on the part of the Chamber that we have not yet worked on the implementation of the law. That has been mentioned several times. During the budget negotiations, Mrs Temmerman raised the issue. It has also been mentioned in other committees. We raised it here. The item was also discussed at the Conference of Presidents. Ladies and gentlemen, today is an appropriate time, also in response to the social debate and to the problems that affect us all, not to delay here any longer, but to do with all of us, as legislators, what we have been given as our responsibilities and to set up this council. The question is therefore very precise in order to establish the Central Supervisory Board for the prison system as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u121	Mr President, we support this motion and Mr Bonte's explanations. Today, we are simply implementing a law that has been passed and is expected to be implemented since the beginning of 2018. A ping-pong game between the government and the House is perceptible. The government refers the texts back to the House and says that it will not move forward until certain aspects are resolved. Conversely, the House refers to the government by arguing that a budget is required to operate this body; however, the government does not issue it. This ping-pong is not acceptable. It is time for us to assume our responsibilities. The least we can expect from this chamber, Mr. Speaker, is for it to enforce the law that has been passed. We should have a start on a number of issues related to the fight against radicalism, prison policy and prison leave. Yes, therefore, let us take this step today and finally implement the law that is passed. This does not prevent the fact that important work remains to be done. I hope that the Conference of Presidents will allow us to quickly set an agenda in the various committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u122	Mr President, we support the motion of our colleagues in the sp.a. group. We would also like to inform you that we have formalised by means of a letter which should be in your possession or, in any case, which was sent to you by e-mail a few minutes ago, our request for referral to Committee P and Committee R which will be the subject of the Conference of Presidents at the end of the plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u123	Mr President, I am a little surprised at the way things are going. In fact, what Mr Bonte is asking is what we are doing in the Chamber right now. As Mr Bonte rightly pointed out, there is a legal basis for the Central Supervisory Board for the prison system. We have already approved them in this Chamber. However, a number of implementing rules still need to be laid down by law. Those laws are now ahead of the Justice Commission. In particular, they form part of a draft law laying down various provisions in criminal matters, 1. This draft law was voted on article by article in the Justice Committee on 22 May. I refer, inter alia, to Article 37 et seq. of this draft, where composition, members, mechanisms of operation and so on are regulated by law. The way in which the Chamber can make the appointments of members and of the secretariat and bureau has also been determined. It is precisely because some members of the opposition have asked for a second reading that this draft law cannot be on the agenda for next week. However, nothing prevents it from coming here after that second reading. I understand that the report would be distributed tomorrow. Consequently, after the expiry of the time limits laid down in our Rules of Procedure, it is possible to vote on them in committee and then here in plenary. In short, what we are doing today as a matter of order is what we are doing. It could be said that this motion is therefore without object, but I do not want to give the impression that we do not want to make any progress with the establishment of the Central Supervisory Council. I wish to approve this draft as soon as possible here in the Chamber, after which the Chamber can appoint its members and appoint the Central Supervisory Council. For that reason, Mr President, I would also like to approve this order motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u124	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts this order motion. Accordingly, the House adopted the point of order.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u125	Colleagues, I have just informed you of an order motion tabled by Mrs Veerle Wouters and Mr Hendrik Vuye on the F-16 file. You have received the text of the motion. The two colleagues are demanding the presence of the Minister of Defence. Mr Vuye has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u126	Mr President, there has been a debate on the replacement of the F-16 for some time now. Everyone knows that there are a lot of e-mails leaking in the context of that debate. The Minister denies having received these e-mails each time. In the Defence Committee of 16 May last, colleague Van der Maelen read an e-mail dated 18 September 2017 and mentioned an e-mail dated 2012. That mail of 18 September did not pass on to the other committee members by colleague Van der Maelen. Normally, a healthy democratic debate presupposes an informed debate. If certain documents cannot be consulted by all Members of Parliament, it is difficult to organise a debate. Nor can the Minister take a stand or defend himself. We are trying to do politics in a different way. We believe that a debate should be about content and should not take place in the media or in the House of Commons, but here in the Chamber. The current way of working makes it particularly difficult, both for members of parliament and for the minister. We believe that a debate based on concrete documents and facts is always an added value for democracy. Other groups have probably received e-mails. We call on those groups to publish those e-mails as well and to make them part of the debate. This is all the more so because we are about to vote on a motion of censure. In order to allow Members of Parliament to speak with knowledge on this dossier, we shall make known the e-mails that concern our group. It concerns an e-mail dated 5 November 2012 and an e-mail dated 11 April 2017. The e-mail of 11 April is addressed to Minister Steven Vandeput on the Minister's address as found on the belgium.be website. Lieutenant General Claude Van de Voorde is there in cc. According to the information available to us, Lieutenant General Claude Van de Voorde was still head of the cabinet at that date, April 11, 2017. This e-mail we submit refers to the e-mail of April 6 which was announced yesterday by the president of the sp.a. Both e-mails confirm that an extension of the lifetime of the F-16 is possible. This afternoon we received a third e-mail which has not yet been discussed in the debate and which has not appeared in the press either. That e-mail was supposed to come from the Department of Defense. The e-mail dates from 6 September 2017 and is addressed to Minister Steven Vandeput. It can be read that, at the request of the Minister of Defence, the study and research work on the extension of lifespan will be discontinued or, to be more precise, completed. If that mail is authentic, then there is a big problem. The Minister said yesterday in this matter that the sp.a. is being abused. It could be. It is also possible to try to abuse my group, because it may be expected that we will be attacking it very hard. We don't. However, we would like to give the Minister the opportunity to give a ruling on the authenticity of those e-mails. My group states that if those e-mails were not authentic, the Minister would also have a major problem. After all, where did those e-mails come from? Those e-mails are not sold in any department store, nor do we assume that those e-mails come from the minister himself. Most likely those e-mails came from DOD. That's why I think there's a huge problem. Mr President, we ask the Minister to take a position on this today. Several other important questions about the F-35 file are now snowed under. For example, I refer to the written question we have put to the Minister on software. We want to know who has access to this software, who controls it, and whether we need the consent of the United States every time we want access to it. We ask the Chamber to request the Minister so that we can ask him to take a stand on the authenticity of those e-mails. After all, it is a very strange phenomenon that such e-mails pop up and continue to pop up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u127	Mr President, Mr Vuye, you are asking for the Minister to come. I suppose you're asking him to come now, because he'll come someday, but I suspect you mean now. I am very pleased that the group is committed to content, documents and facts. I see there's an e-mail in here from 2012. I therefore suspect that Mr De Crem will also have to be brought forward. That's gonna be a big deal here. I do not really think it makes much sense because Minister Vandeput has no choice. If the mail is authentic, he's in trouble. And if the e-mail isn't authentic, he's in trouble, too. Just now the word binary fell here, this isn't even binary anymore. In any case, Minister Vandeput will have problems, whether it is authentic or not. Mr Vuye, I would like to respond to your offer of serious political action. And then, of course, there's no point in suddenly confronting a minister with those documents, to stage a spectacle by bringing him up here, for something that isn't really acute. If there is this problem, there is of course also the normal treatment in the relevant committee. It is to your credit that, unlike other colleagues, you are indeed making those e-mails available. I fully endorse your call that anyone who has received something in his mailbox containing the name Vandeput should throw it open in the debate. We can all take a serious look at this. One of the e-mails dates from 2012. Another mail has almost been typed over from the mail that is in the file at sp.a. That authenticity does not seem to me to be guaranteed, but of course it is impossible for the Minister, if he wants to treat it seriously, as you ask, to come here and deal with it with the knowledge of what you are calling for. That is why I propose that you follow the normal parliamentary path, that this be discussed in committee, that we do so in a serious way, and that does not mean with any kind of spectacle here, and that we do not invite the Minister to the House now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u128	Is anyone still asking for the floor on this matter? Mr Vuye, this is not actually provided for in the Rules of Procedure. But we will simply vote on it. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 52 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the House rejects the motion. Consequently, the Chamber rejects the motion. Ladies and gentlemen, there are now two points that we need to discuss in connection with the settlement of the work of the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety, because there was no consensus on this at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u129	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 May 2018, I propose that the Court should: Paragraph 1, second paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure to declare the obligation of professional secrecy applicable to the consultation of the Greenpeace France report on the safety of nuclear power stations in the data room with the committee secretariat. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 May 2018, I propose to you, pursuant to Rule 67(1), second paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure, to declare the obligation of secrecy applicable to the consultation, in the data room with the committee secretariat, of the Greenpeace France report on the safety of nuclear power plants. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 128 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopted this order of business in the nuclear safety sub-committee. Consequently, the Court adopts these rules of procedure for the work of the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u130	The Conference of Presidents of 30 May 2018 established that there was no consensus on the request of the Chair of the Nuclear Safety Sub-Committee to decide that the meeting of Tuesday 5 June 2018 will take place with closed doors, in accordance with Rule 31. Paragraph 2 (4) of the Rules of Procedure. The Court must therefore give its opinion on that request. This means that, if that request is accepted, no other Member of Parliament will be able to attend this meeting unless the permanent and successive members of this subcommittee are present. The Conference of Presidents of 30 May 2018 found that there was no consensus on the request of the Chairman of the Sub-Committee on Nuclear Safety to declare, for the duration of the meeting on Tuesday, 5 June 2018, the closed session referred to in Rule 31, point 2, paragraph 4, of the Rules of Procedure. The Chamber must therefore rule on this request. This means that if this request is accepted, except for the actual and alternate members of this subcommission, no other member of the Chamber will be able to attend.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u131	Mr President, I understand and we all know that we are dealing with a very sensitive and sensitive subject with the risk posed by nuclear power plants, which is why we have supported the principle and the organisation of the data room. We have no problem with that. In this case, the question is whether there can be a debate in the nuclear safety sub-committee in the presence of the actors we are inviting, and therefore not in camera. That is why I have made an alternative proposal in the Conference of Presidents to the proposal originally made, namely that part of the debate in the sub-committee should take place normally and logically in camera and that another part, when drawing the political conclusions, should take place in open session. So everyone will be aware of the political lessons that will be learned, in the presence of the actors and offering them the opportunity to express themselves publicly on issues that, in my view, require an open debate on the conclusions. That is why we have asked for a split of the debate, with a public part and a closed part, contrary to the original proposal. If we cannot change the original proposal, we will vote against it so that everyone can speak publicly about the political conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u132	Several Members have asked to speak. The chairman of the subcommittee, Mr Vanvelthoven, has the floor first.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u133	Mr President, I understand from Greenpeace that the report contains data that we do not want to make public. I understand from the organisation that she handed over three copies of that secret report to the crisis cell, which then handed over a copy to the Minister of the Interior and a copy to the FANC. I received the fourth copy last week, for the time being in a closed envelope. It is important that we keep the committee meeting behind closed doors. I also feel that that is Greenpeace's question, because it concerns information, which is best not to come out. We can ask the three parties involved, a Greenpeace representative, one of the experts who produced the report and one of the FANC's experts, who will be heard next Tuesday, to what extent they would consider it appropriate to have a public debate on this matter. I am very careful on this point. I would therefore like to propose to the Chamber that we hold the meeting of the subcommittee behind closed doors next Tuesday and, at the end of the debate, whether or not we can agree to hold a part of the political debate, because that is where we are going to have a public meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u134	Mr President, I understand the proposal made, but you know that the difficulty of this sub-committee is that it is composed of only eight people; it is therefore difficult to obtain a majority in some cases. As far as we are concerned, we do not want this sub-committee to be public, simply because, as we have just said, we voted for a data room because the documents are secret and because, in the legal note we have received from the House, it is clear that access to these documents in principle requires a security clearance. It would therefore be particularly contradictory to make public documents which had been accessed without such authorization. We want the debates to take place in camera and this must be decided here because you know that in this committee we are only eight members and that this is not proportional representation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u135	We'll decide in a few moments, Mr. Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u136	Mr President, we absolutely cannot follow the request of the Ecolo-Green Group to lift, even partially, the in camera. While we are deeply committed to the publicity and transparency of political debates, at the same time we want to be responsible for the preservation of public safety. Greenpeace wanted this report to remain confidential. However, the organization has posted a summary. She explains how much she wanted to be responsible, given the issues of public safety. Mr. Nollet, I see you're laughing. What does Greenpeace say? She indicated that it was not only the data included in the document that was sensitive, but also their analysis. Greenpeace goes further by stating that it poses an obvious risk of putting different attack scenarios at the disposal of criminals and individuals with criminal intentions. At this stage, even though none of us have been able to read the document - since it will only be available in the data room from tomorrow - it would be totally irresponsible to lift the closed session called for correctly by the chairman of the nuclear safety sub-committee. In this sub-committee, we could decide that, in a second stage, certain elements could be discussed publicly. It would then always be time to do so. But it seems to us to be totally irresponsible of security issues before today, including, I repeat, the argument put forward by Greenpeace itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u137	Mr President, we are here on a sensitive issue. Nuclear security requires a lot of caution in data processing, but also a lot of transparency. I support the proposal of the chairman of the sub-committee, which makes it clear that we can lift the lock-up once we have heard the people concerned. However, I cannot agree with Mr. Clarinval on security accreditation. Greenpeace people don't have it. As Mrs Fonck said, people in Greenpeace have the common sense to say that some of the elements in their report could be dangerous to nuclear safety and security, and that they should not be exposed. They must therefore be heard in camera. If a series of elements were to be important in terms of transparency of information, the Nuclear Safety Sub-Committee could decide to disclose some of the elements and political conclusions in a public session.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u138	Mr President, I understand that in camera is being requested for such a case. But I regret that parties that are not represented, which do not belong to a political group, cannot participate in these meetings. In my view, it is to create two categories of Members: large and small. That's unfortunate! I would also like to draw your attention here, Mr President, to the fact that unincorporated parties have already had the opportunity to have access to such sensitive files in the data room. I don't think there was a leak. We are responsible Members of Parliament. Why not allow us to have access to this file and the data room?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u139	I propose that an electronic vote be taken on the proposal for a meeting of the nuclear safety sub-committee in camera on Tuesday, 5 June 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u140	What are we voting on, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u141	On the proposal from the chairman of the nuclear safety sub-committee to meet in camera on 5 June – met gesloten deuren. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[114]] Yes No. [[17]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Accordingly, the nuclear safety sub-committee will meet in private on Tuesday, 5 June 2018. Consequently, the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety will meet with closed doors on Tuesday 5 June 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u142	These interviews were held at the public meeting of the Defence Committee of 22 May 2018. These inquiries were developed in a public meeting of the National Defence Commission on May 22, 2018. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 261/1): - a motion of censure against the Minister for Defence, responsible for civil servants, was tabled by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen and Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez; - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Dallemagne; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote, Mrs Katrin Jadin and Mr Richard Miller, Philippe Pivin, Luc Van Biesen and Vincent Van Peteghem. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 261/1): - a motion of distrust of the Minister of Defence responsible for the Civil Service was tabled by Mr. Dirk Van der Maelen and Ms. Julie Fernandez Fernandez; - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Dallemagne; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Koenraad Degroote, Mrs Katrin Jadin and MM. Richard Miller, Philippe Pivin, Luc Van Biesen and Vincent Van Peteghem. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u143	Mr President, I have come to the Chair because I believe that this matter is a matter of principle for a parliament. First of all, I would like to say to Mr Vuye that I did not wait for his order. This morning, I sent all the e-mails we have in our possession to all the groups that took part in the debate in the Committee on Defence. All the groups have received our file. I have come to the Chair because I believe that a parliament that respects itself cannot simply go into the order of the day if there are two essential problems in a parliamentary democracy. The first problem is whether or not politics, whether or not with the knowledge and cooperation of the minister, was manipulated by the military summit. Those who have taken the time and effort to read the file will have seen that there are emails from 2012. At that time, politics had not yet taken a decision on whether or not to replace the F-16. I'm talking about the year 2012. What do we read in the e-mails you find in the file? We read that the military summit is drawing up a strategy aimed at purchasing the F-35. There is a document showing that the F-35 is the ideal plane, but that the Rafale and the Typhoon are much less.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u144	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u145	Excuse me, Mr President, but for me it is an essential matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u146	The Rules of Procedure provide that an explanation of vote shall take two minutes. You have already used up your two-minute speaking time, but continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u147	As in the rest of this file, I will have to go very quickly. The first question is whether the military summit manipulated us. Look at the file. The second question is whether Parliament was lied to. The Secretary of State for Defence has repeatedly said that the aircraft would be worn out in 2023 and should therefore be replaced and that he has no knowledge of studies that allow longer flying than 2023. We have emails and Mr Vuye is adding them today. So it's clear the Minister lied. About those e-mails, the minister says he didn't receive them or that they were manufactured. What sp.a proposes is a fact check, whereby we invite those who have sent or received these e-mails to the Committee for Defence and interrogate them under oath, because they are under the command of their superiors. Only if they are heard under oath will we know what really happened. A parliament that respects itself does not go to the order of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to turn off your autopilot to vote in favour of the simple motion, and do as any self-respecting parliament and find out those two things. We've been manipulated by the top of the army? We've been deceived?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u148	Mr Dallemagne, you have the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let Mr Dallemagne speak! He has the right to an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u149	Thank you, Mr President, but it is a basic right of the parliamentarian! I would like to say very soberly and very quickly that, indeed, I think that confidence in the procedure chosen by the government is now largely undermined. We had been presented with a procedure that must be objective, transparent, independent and serious. We're a long way from it! Some documents have been hidden from Parliament and/or the government. This procedure no longer corresponds at all to the strategic challenges we are facing, to the challenges of defence and European security. I ask the government – and this is a motion for a recommendation – to put an end to this procedure which is absolutely not in line with the standards we are entitled to expect for the renewal of our fighter aircraft, to reopen a new procedure which takes account of strategic developments, which takes account of the urgent need to build, finally, a European Defence, to address European governments as a matter of priority, in order to build our Defence in the future through the acquisition, in particular, of these fighter jets. I urge that this strategy be abandoned, that this procedure be abandoned. Our confidence in the Minister of Defence is largely eroded. I also ask the Prime Minister to take over this issue, which is very important for our government, for our country, for our credibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u150	Mr President, I will speak briefly because a lot has been said and we have already had this debate in committee. I obviously support the words, the request and the text of our colleague, Mr Sp.a, which we have co-signed. We share the broken confidence with the F-16 renewal procedure, but also with the minister who has not told us everything. He could have told us some things earlier that would have informed us about the decisions to be made. If the minister has nothing to hide and if the majority trusts his minister and thinks that he has nothing to hide, as we did in committee, we invite them to support our request that the soldiers involved in the matter come and give their truth under oath in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u151	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u152	Yes 77 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of censure and recommendation lapse. The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions of distrust and recommendation are overturned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u153	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3043/ 2004) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3043/ 2004)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u154	Vote on Amendment No 5 by Barbara Beware of Article 2. (1799/11) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Barbara Not to Article 2. (1799/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 1 Yes No. 126 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u155	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u156	Mr President, my group will support this text in a common desire to combat female genital mutilation effectively, in line with our motion for a resolution, which should also be adopted earlier. However, personally, I will abstain, mainly to recall the fears expressed by my group during the many exchanges we had in committee. Many colleagues have reminded us of this. Since the beginning of this legislature, the question of professional secrecy has been debated in various projects and proposals and, each time, this debate has weakened. There are more and more exceptions, and I wonder to what extent it would not be interesting to ask this question in a more comprehensive way. In the context of the text before us today, we believe that the legislation on professional secrecy already allowed it to be lifted in the event of danger and necessity for women and that our legislation was already very much in line with the Istanbul Convention that we have ratified. We also continue to believe, like the College of Physicians, that such changes could undermine professional secrecy and the relationship of trust between the holder of professional secrecy and the person who is the victim of genital mutilation. In our view, it is fundamental that a victim can seek help without fear and can freely decide whether or not to bring the offence before the competent judicial authorities. As these fears have been reworded, I repeat that my group supports this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u157	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1799/12) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1799/12) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u158	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1406/8) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1406/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u159	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 7 June 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 7 June 2018. As part of the adoption of next week's agenda, I received a letter from Mr Dewael. I suggest he explain the contents of his letter himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u160	Mr President, yesterday there was no consensus at the Conference of Presidents on next Thursday's agenda. I asked for the bill No. 2839 on economic revival and the strengthening of social cohesion. I asked for this because yesterday morning a non-agreement was adopted in the Conciliation Committee. As a result, the conflict of interest procedure subject to the design was terminated. The Chamber may therefore continue the examination of the draft. Yesterday it seemed to me to be a formality, but the conference said that there was no knowledge of the Minutes. A few hours later that was the case. Taking note of this notification, the Chamber may decide that the draft may be added to next Thursday's agenda. That's the meaning of my letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u161	Mr President, I would like to respond to this request. The issue of 500 euros without assessment and taxation is important and has been the subject of a lot of reactions from the federated entities, in particular from the Brussels Region and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, with remarks and requests that have not been heard by the federal government. We had a concertation meeting in the Chamber and Mrs De Block's chief of staff opened the door to a few requests from the Flemish Community. We had the hope that there would be an evolution in the text. Mr. Clarinval then intervened to say that there would be a restorative law. I will not remind you of all the reactions of the actors on the ground who, almost unanimously, said that this text was bad and expressed fears. This has become even stronger in recent weeks in terms of criticism. Undoubtedly, the text is not ready, is not mature, is not good. The fact of passing into force is therefore very bad. We are asking for referral back to committee to improve the text and to achieve something good. At the point where we are... it's a deal that dates back to a year ago, a big agreement from Tomorrowland! A few more weeks, Mr. Dewael... it no longer comes a few weeks to improve the text. It meets the needs of some sectors but it is very bad for others. Such contempt for the federated entities and the actors... It would be considered that if we went in force! Be reasonable, don't go so far!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-31-54-plenair-ip231x.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, I put the proposal to the vote to add to the agenda. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[74]] Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 128 Total Accordingly, the agenda for the next plenary session, with the proposed addition, was adopted. Consequently, the agenda for the next plenary session was adopted with the addition. I would remind you that there will be a Conference of Presidents in Room 1 shortly.
