ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u1	Minister, strengthening the link between contributions and benefits is one of the pillars of your pension policy and that of the government. Therefore, in calculating the pension amount, you have not set yourself career years, and for the sake of clarity you have also set yourself the objective of assessing the periods actually worked above periods of inactivity. To this end, you have already taken a number of good measures. Thus, the time loan can no longer be equated without motive. Nevertheless, a number of examples have been published in the press where effective working periods are not always valued higher for pensioners. Sometimes even the opposite is true. In the budget notification of the Council of Ministers of 28 September 2017, the government reconfirmed its goal to better reward work for the pension. In this context, it decided that, for those under 50 years of age, the days above the first period of unemployment only count towards a minimum pension entitlement. At the same time, it decided to seek the opinion of the NAR on the activation policy of 50+ and to consider whether the system could be applied to 50+. What's the status? Have you been able to take note of the advice of the NAR? Where are the government's objectives to always value periods of effective employment higher than periods of inactivity for the calculation of the pension amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u2	On 4 April 2018, together with the Minister of Work, I sent a letter to the President of the NAR asking for proposals on keeping workers 50 years of age and older, with the integration of pension aspects. I am no longer considering taking new measures with regard to the periods considered. At the same time, I would remind you that the Royal Decree of 19 December 2017 amending Article 24a and Article 34 of the Royal Decree of 21 December 1967 laying down the general rules on retirement and survivor's pension for employees, the so-called Royal Decree on equivalences, was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 29 December 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u3	Mr Minister, perhaps you could once again press the NAR for a more detailed opinion on this matter. You reply that you will not do anything with the treated periods anymore. However, I think I understand that, in the context of the heavy professions, you would still be working with a difference between periods treated as such and periods of effective employment. This aspect will perhaps be dealt with in the debate in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u4	Mr Daerden, the first point on our agenda concerns the appointment of a new first Vice-President. Your name is named. No observation? [[No]] In this case, the designation is approved. Congratulations. Mr Daerden, to celebrate your assumption of office as Vice-President, I propose that you ask your first question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u5	Minister, this is a relatively old issue, which refers to measures that were mentioned last summer in conclave negotiations on pension savings. We learned through the press that you wanted to change the calculation rules. For a year to be taken into account, the equivalent of a half-time, i.e. 156 days, would have to be taken into account, rather than a third full-time, i.e. 104 days, as is currently the case. This could result in the loss of one year from the time of the year the person began his or her career or, at the very least, the requirement to work 52 additional days, representing the difference between 156 and 104 days. This is what emerged from the analysis of this article. Despite our research, I did not find that this rule had changed. Is this change still in your mind? Have you consulted the social partners on this project? If this change were to take place, how many people would be affected by your measure? What would be the budgetary impact?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u6	Mr Daerden, it is not my intention to change the rules for calculating the early pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u7	It has the merit of being clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u8	That's the kind of answer I like. That's fantastic.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u9	Mr President, I have five questions to ask. I guess I can put them down one after the other?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u10	Yes. All stakeholders will ask their questions and the Minister will then respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u11	Minister, my first question relates to the recognition of the teaching profession as a painful profession. There have already been many discussions on this topic. It would appear that you have decided to move towards a differentiated logic between primary and secondary teachers, who could have access to two years of early retirement; maternity and special education teachers, who could have access to four years of early retirement; and higher education teachers, who would have no right to anything. In other words, a criterion of penitibility would be recognized for primary and secondary teachers, two criteria of penitibility for maternal and specialized teachers, and no criteria for higher education teachers. Do you confirm that your discussions with the various interlocutors are moving in this direction? On the basis of the four criteria that had been negotiated previously (I am not talking about the stress criterion that would have become complementary), what is the objective reason for this differentiation? Will the early pension for reasons of penitibility affect the amount of the pension if the teacher makes use of this possibility? The second question I asked at the end of May concerns cacophony at government level. The reaction of Open Vld and N-VA to the pseudo-list or non-list was observed. Where are we in relation to that? The N-VA, the Open Vld and the FEB said that you went to Committee A in a slightly too broad logic and that it would cost too much. Finally, what is the status of the concertation? How did you restart the process and what schedule should be expected? We hear a lot of noises that are of concern to workers. You also mentioned a possible increase in the budget for penitibility. Is that so? If that is true, I welcome it because I have sufficiently criticized the budgetary straitjacket. Even if it remains, but it is enlarged, I am delighted about it. My third question is related to the penitential bonus. It is paradoxical: you removed the pension bonus at the beginning of the legislature because it represented the worst of the systems and, now, you introduce another type of targeted bonus for people who have a hard job. Another paradox is to recognize in your discussions – we do not have the text – that certain occupations damage health, which will allow workers to leave their jobs earlier, but, if I understood correctly, with a lower pension, while if they want to keep an equivalent pension, they must continue to damage their health to benefit from the bonus that will compensate for the financial loss at the pension level if they had left their jobs when they could, on the basis of your system. What is this system of calculation of the penitibility bonus? Is there a single worker or household situation? Here too, the information is rather ambiguous. Is there a ceiling on this penitential bonus? My fourth question relates to the age at which you can start an early pension with your preliminary draft penitential system. Can you confirm that this is not until 60, i.e. 60 is the minimum age for early retirement despite all the penitential calculations? Do you confirm that your system is only valid to anticipate access to the pension and that the calculation of the amount remains the same regardless of when you leave, whether you are in penitibility or not? Do you have simulations to compare the pension amount of workers currently in the pension scheme for those who would switch into the penitential system? Finally, the last question on this particularly important topic of the heavy trades penitibility system is the date of application. We are talking about 1 January 2020, but under what conditions should the workers be on that date? It is said that at that time they will have to work in a difficult occupation for ten years, that they will have to be with the same employer as the one in which they performed these difficult duties. For ten, twenty or thirty years, some may have had a difficult job, and then at the end of their career, they may have had the opportunity to leave this difficult job. Will they be left on the edge of the road? If they have just changed employers, if they have just become unemployed, in all these cases, do they lose the opportunity to be in your penitential system? What about part-time work as well? Finally, and I agree with a notion mentioned in a previous question, what do you mean by an effective benefit and what is the impact of this concept on the calculation of the peniability and age of the early pension? That is a series of questions, Minister, on this subject which I am very concerned about.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u12	Mr President, I have tried to put my two questions together. After all, it has been a while since the first questions were asked. Mr Minister, the first observation was made in March, when it became clear that it is still your intention to put the file of the heavy professions in a definitive form before the summer recess. My first question is therefore whether you still have that intention. In what way do you intend to share this with Parliament? We were given the list of the various draft laws in the Conference of Presidents today. The draft law on the heavy-duty professions was not included. I therefore assume that this will be dealt with after the summer recess. After a number of answers to questions in plenary and statements in the newspapers, the question arises as to whether they will be about heavy jobs or about heavy occupations. Can you shed some light on that? I shall come back later to the agreement on the list, because it refers to heavy professions. In communication, it is about heavy functions. There is still a great deal of fog about the epochs. Similar periods due to an accident at work or pregnancy would not be eligible for the calculation of a heavy occupation. You'll have to improve me if necessary, but that's what we get from the newspapers. There was an agreement in the public sector, but this was immediately fired by the N-VA and Open Vld. Negotiations with the private sector are still ongoing. Can you shed some light on that? In what way do you intend to put both cases together? The budget envelope is limited to €40 million in 2020, amounting to €16 million for the public sector and €24 million for the private sector. What budgets will be allocated for the following years? You only take into account the effective benefits for incriminating work and want them to be considered for the early retirement, but they will not count for the calculation of the pension. If one is recognized as a heavy occupation one will be able to retire earlier, but that early retirement will be deducted from the sum one would normally get if one continued to work. You introduced the pension bonus. That is, as the colleague says, a bit strange, because that was a very odious system that you had abolished, but that you would now re-introduce for the people with a heavy occupation. Can you explain about that pension bonus? This would mean that those who have the right to retire earlier because they have a heavy occupation would lose their pension. If one continues to work, one would supposedly gain a pension, but that is the normal amount one would get if one did not have a heavy occupation. Can you shed some light on that? Can you clarify the agreement with the public sector? What about that list? Is it still being handled? The employers have already said that there is no list for them, while some trade unions say that the list is an integral part of an agreement. What is your view on this? I have already asked what progress has been made in the negotiations with the private sector. Once again on the budget envelope, according to the Finance Inspectorate's note, the savings in the abolition of the tantiemes amount to EUR 150 million in the first year, and this amount is still increasing over the next few years. The Finance Inspectorate notes that your policy cell has indicated that the budgetary envelope for the list of the heavy professions would be as large as that of the savings. However, we have to note that this is not true, because, as I said, the first year for the public sector was planned for EUR 16 million and we are actually saving EUR 150 million. This is only 10% compared to the expected savings. Can you shed some light on that? Has a calculation been made of the pension loss for the public sector? The advantage of retiring earlier is not included in the calculation of the pension, which is the case with the tantiemes. In the agreement with the two government trade unions there would be a solution to this gap. Can you give us a more detailed explanation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u13	Mr Minister, in a debate in plenary, I had already had the opportunity to ask you about this issue, quickly since time is limited in this context. Your party and the CD&V had said with certainty that an agreement had been reached for the public sector, while two partners in your government, the Open Vld and the N-VA, had claimed the opposite. The next day, Deputy Prime Minister Open Vld confirmed that there was no agreement on a list of difficult jobs. However, the agreement given by two trade unions at the time of the plenary session concerned the draft law associated with the list of difficult trades. Remember that Committee A is chaired by the Prime Minister! In addition, there was probably a list of difficult jobs. Among the differences placed in the public place by two parties of your majority, one could observe differences in the content of this list. Some had made "shopping" in this list by keeping certain trades and rejecting others. Others had chosen, in the same profession, people who could benefit from it. On the subject of education, for example, in the list, all teachers were included except those of the superior and, conversely, a party of your majority had to keep only the teachers of the maternal level. The least we can say is that this committee A, chaired by a Prime Minister, which engages the entire government, is the subject of a beautiful cacophony. This procedure is not respectful of negotiations with trade union organisations, nor of all citizens having the right to receive clear information. Time has passed since then: it is time to re-examine the state of negotiations with the public sector. What's your status on this file? Have the federated entities, as public employers, been involved in the latest negotiations on difficult trades? Will you make progress on this file? Indeed, I am making the same observation. At noon, I attended the Conference of Presidents. However, this dossier was already first read in the Council of Ministers in April. You acquiesce: I don't think I'm wrong. Have you decided to freeze this file? It is not included in the list of projects announced by the government that they will be forwarded to the House before the parliamentary holidays. Do you freeze it? Why? Is it to make the link with the private sector? If so, why not start negotiations with the private sector much earlier? It does seem to me important that we should also look at the hardness of the private sector, since there are a whole series of occupations which are undoubtedly painful. Can you also inform us about the progress of the work in this area? On 24 May, you committed yourself to maintaining fairness among all the workers in the country. How do you intend to guarantee it? Are we going to make a parallel with the outcome of the public sector negotiations to apply it to the private sector, with specific features, of course, related to the trades? Or are you going to proceed in another way? On the budgetary side, what will be the situation, since it is the budgetary gain due to the abolition of the preferential tantèmes and the coefficients of increase that you want to re-inject for difficult jobs? In any case, you've always said so for the hard jobs in the public sector. What does this mean then with regard to the private sector? Will there be a complementary envelope for the private sector? Or is the envelope freed from the preferential tantèmes and the coefficients of increase intended to cover the arduous trades of the public and private sectors? Have budgetary projections been made to examine the level at which this supplement, which would be granted to the pension for so-called arduous occupations, can be financed? Has disability been taken into account? In what way? The last point that I think is important is a little more general. You have always discussed, at the level of the government, and you have always spoken, for many months, about the four famous criteria. And then, today, there is a list of difficult jobs. It is also in this respect that the social partners have ruled. This list was circulated in Committee A during the negotiations. Is there a link between the four famous criteria on which the government had positioned itself and the trades? How will it be arranged and how will we examine the different professions and the personal situation of the persons concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u14	Minister, you have entered into an agreement with two public sector unions that have been disposed of more or less by some of your government partners. On the one hand, the unions have agreed and do not want to change the list. On the other hand, two of your government partners do not accept this list. In this context, how will you proceed to reach an agreement? Is a list of arduous trades defended by the government or by you? If so, can you give it to us? Mr. Van Quickenborne, our dear president, suggested last week in an interview that it would first be a private sector agreement, which could only later serve as a model for the public sector. What do you think of this proposal? Let us imagine that the unions agree to revise their agreement downwards, which is unlikely, will you again risk being re-rated by your partners or will you this time impose the agreement you have obtained? When are you planning to land in this file? I'd like to ask more questions. Can I do it continuously?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u15	All at once!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u16	In particular, I would like to ask you an attached question on the same subject concerning the loss of pension in arduous occupations. Indeed, the government agreement provides for multiplication coefficients linked to the three criteria of penitibility. Yet, there is an element on which you have little, strangely, communication in the media: the amount of pensions for arduous occupations is part of the pattern of a full career of 45 years. Thus, the person, whose profession is recognized as painful, will be told good and bad news. The good one: "Your job is recognized as painful"; the bad one: "You will lose a lot of money on the already meagre pension that you were going to receive". A recent study by the FGTB has shown that, on this basis, the more painful the profession is, that is, the more criteria it meets, the greater the loss of income for the pensioner. Previously, pension rights were safeguarded in the event of a pre-pension, but with the Career Unit Act, which the government introduced at the end of last year, a full pension is only granted on the basis of the first 45 years. For example, an employee who has worked for 38 years in a profession that meets three criteria can start at 60 years of age, but with a monthly loss of 162 euros, which amounts to 1 939 euros of annual loss. This, while the statutory pension of employees is already so low, i.e. 1,212 euros on average. Therefore, minister, why is not the multiplication coefficient applied to determine the age of the pension for a difficult occupation equally applied to the amount of the pension? In addition, you encourage workers to work longer in a "heavy" occupation by giving them a bonus every year after their 60th birthday, but if they do not work beyond that, they lose part of their pension. Why, therefore, are older workers in heavy occupations financially punished for this fact when their profession, precisely, takes on this character of penitibility? And do you maintain your claim that workers in difficult jobs will not lose a pension as part of this reform? This statement, which seems to me somewhat to play with reality, do you maintain it or do you rather come back to your remarks? In addition, according to a survey conducted by Securex two years ago, a quarter of employees between 60 and 64 years of age have been out of health care for more than a year. If you plan very few envelopes for arduous jobs and if employees who can work at age 60 are sentenced to financial consequences, do you not fear that more older employees will become ill longer? If the envelopes for these trades are already set for the next few years (40 million in 2020, 70 million in 2021) and the Federal Bureau of the Plan is responsible for calculating whether the envelopes are not exceeded, how can we be talking about free negotiation with the social partners on the list of difficult trades? Secondly, how long does it take to have a hard job to be recognized? Five or ten years? Third, are periods not taken into account because of illness or unemployment? Fourthly, will the teaching profession be recognized as painful, especially on the basis of emotional burden? Fifthly, the social partners representing private employees and employers also ask to work with criteria, as negotiating a list of heavy professions seems almost impossible. Will the criteria be the same as those used for the public service? Or, on the contrary, will others be added or modified? Finally, you said that this reform was not a budgetary operation, but I would still like to ask you about the amounts, on the one hand, given the abolition of the tyrannical preferences, i.e. what the State is going to gain, and, on the other hand, given the introduction of the system of difficult trades, i.e. what it will cost the State. What are these two amounts? Is their differential positive or negative?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u17	Mr President, Minister, some of my questions, as well as the context, have been put by some of my colleagues, but from a different concern and perspective. Minister, according to the N-VA, the list you have presented and the reasons for the agreement is too extensive and risks undermining the entire pension reform. My first question concerns the further process in this area, although questions have already been asked. Do you want to wait for an agreement in the private sector before proceeding or will you immediately take new initiatives in the public sector? How will you ensure that a new list for the public sector is more limited? My second, more substantive question is whether the government has clearly defined a number of conditions. For example, the amount of pension should not fall, should generally not increase in terms of effective exit age and should comply with the budgetary envelope. A first exercise has shown that this is not evident, as we have always said. How do you look at this first attempt? How do you think these three parameters can be successfully combined? My third question follows from the question I asked earlier. You have indicated that you would make a difference in the heavy-duty professions between periods actually worked and periods treated as such. Could you give us a little more explanation on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u18	Minister, it is very difficult to determine what is a difficult profession, and that is very sensitive. It is an exercise that has also taken years in other countries. In the meantime, a lot of progress has been made in the dossier. The criteria have been laid down and a draft law has been adopted at first reading. On the basis of these criteria, a list of the heavy-duty professions must then be drawn up. This list must be fair and must not lead to differences between the public and private sectors. In doing so, it is essential that the cost is calculated by the Federal Planning Office, so that the hard-won pension reforms of recent years are not undermined. In the meantime, we have received the new Ageing Report from the European Commission. The report reviews the cost of ageing. Initially, the Planning Bureau had said, on the basis of assumptions, that the reforms of these and previous governments cut the cost of ageing, but the Ageing Report shows that some parameters may need to be adjusted, such as reduced population growth by 2060 and slightly lower productivity growth, thus increasing the cost of ageing. This means, therefore, that we must be very careful to grant long-term benefits to people who would subsequently prove very difficult to afford. Euphoria on pension reform is therefore not appropriate, there is still a lot of work to be done. Hence our call for great caution. In that connection, Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, what do you think of the list of heavy-duty professions communicated by government trade unions a few weeks ago, which includes about half of all appointed officials? If the list in the private sector were equally extensive, would you agree that it would cost far too much? Do you therefore think that the list for the public sector needs to be changed? Secondly, the social dialogue in the private sector is very difficult. Trade unions want broad criteria, employers want stricter criteria. They do agree that there should be no list, which is interesting in itself. How, however, will that continue? Apparently, you were often present at the public sector consultations. Are you equally present at the consultation in the private sector, or is that not your job? Thirdly, Professor Stijn Baert launched an interesting proposal in the De Morgen newspaper at the end of May. He proposed that the consultation be doubled and, on the basis of objective information, namely job coding and European surveys, a list of heavy-duty professions, irrespective of whether they are carried out in the private or in the public sector. The Academic Council could draw up this list, which also fits within a pre-defined budget envelope. Only then would the list be submitted to the social partners, to file where necessary, of course within the budget envelope. What do you think of that proposal made by Professor Stijn Baert of Ghent University? Fourthly, can you clarify the budgetary envelope in the three systems, not only for the years 2019 and 2020 but also for the years after? What is the result of the abolition of advantageous tantiemes, taking account of the transitional provisions? Finally, will you ensure that the same rules will apply at the end of the day to employees as to civil servants? By when do you expect the list of heavy-duty professions to be ready, both in the public and private sectors, to submit to the Planning Bureau? When do you expect the Planning Bureau to make its calculations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the question of the state of play of the public sector consultation, the preliminary draft law on taking account of the tenability of certain functions for the conditions of access to early retirement and for the calculation of the pension amount was the subject of an agreement in Committee A with two trade unions on 23 May. This agreement, which relates only to the legal framework and not to the list of heavy duties, was adopted by the core on 25 May. The trade unions have made the adoption by the government of the list of heavy public sector functions a precondition for their agreement. The decision of the Council of Ministers of 4 April 2018 provides that this list will be the subject of a draft royal decree to be submitted to the government at third reading, at the same time as the draft royal decree with the list of the heavy functions in the private sector. I cannot therefore express my opinion today on the final lists that will be drawn up by the government. As far as the private sector is concerned, on June 6, the Management Committee of the Federal Pension Service issued an opinion on the draft bill. This is a divided opinion. In the trade unions' camp one wishes to go beyond what is proposed. For example, it calls for better consideration to be given to the stress of an emotional nature. On the other hand, employers feel that the draft goes too far. For example, employers' representatives refuse to take into account the stress of an emotional nature, the severity of a function associated with increased safety risks, or the severity of a disability. The only convergence between employers and trade unions is to ask that the list also include criteria, which I think is legitimate. What's next? We will take into account a number of comments and proposals made in the context of social dialogue, in particular those contained in the Memorandum of Understanding with public sector trade unions. Discussions in the NAR should now be continued in order to draw up, in relation to the elements of gravity defined by the National Pension Committee, the list of heavy duties in the private sector. This list must be fair and must not lead to differences between the public sector and the private sector. In addition, consultations were held with the Länder, even though this is not required by law. These consultations took place on 18 May prior to the meeting of the A Committee. In addition, it had agreed to discuss with the federated entities the list of difficult functions in the public sector. In line with this commitment, which was reiterated at the consultation committee on 29 May, a new meeting with the federated entities will be organised. Question on the agenda: Social consultation on the legal framework has ended and the draft law will shortly be submitted to the Council of Ministers at second reading for public sector provisions and at first reading for private sector provisions. After approval, the texts will be attached and submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. In addition, the NAR was invited to draw up the list of heavy duties for the private sector in such a way that the Council of Ministers would be able to give a final opinion on both the preliminary draft law and the royal decrees after the summer holidays. Parliamentary work will then begin with the aim of allowing the reform to enter into force on 1 January 2020. Legal framework question. I will not answer all the technical questions that have been asked about the preliminary draft law. The final outlines of the reform have not yet been defined by the government. Particular account must be taken of the comments made in the context of the social dialogue. The debate on the technical elements of the reform will take place when the preliminary draft law will be submitted to the Chamber for approval. However, I would like to give the following answers. With regard to the impact of the heavy job on retirement, the exercise of a heavy job will allow for faster compliance with the career conditions for early retirement. However, this should not allow departure before the minimum age of 60 years. It is wrong to claim that workers whose jobs are recognised as heavy work will benefit from a lower pension amount because they are entitled to retire earlier. The preliminary draft law does not change the method of calculating the pension. One will benefit from a pension calculated on the basis of the number of career years proven at the time of retirement, as was always the case. Workers who enjoy recognition of heavy jobs and who decide to continue their professional careers will be entitled to a "heavy job" bonus which will be added to the pension amount. This bonus can mean a very significant increase in the pension, because it corresponds to the sum of the monthly pension amounts that could have been paid between the P-date "heavy job" and the P-date or effective starting date of the retirement pension if it takes place before the P-date. Finally, it should be stressed that the Protocol Agreement, concluded in the A Committee, provides for a clicking mechanism for guaranteeing, for a period to be determined, to an official enjoying a preferential tantième and whose function is recognised as severely, that the amount of the pension he will receive under the new provisions will in no case be less than the amount he would have received under the current legislation at the earliest possible date of retirement. As regards the minimum exposure to the heavy functions, the Protocol Agreement concluded in the A Committee lays down a minimum period of 10 years. With regard to the career periods taken into account for the heavy jobs, I would point out that the determination of these periods will be the subject of two royal decisions, one for the public sector and the other for the private sector. The Royal Decrees will be submitted to the Government at the time of the third reading of the draft law. As in the case of the heavy-duty lists, therefore, I cannot express my opinion today on the periods that will be taken into account. As far as disability is concerned, in accordance with the wish expressed by the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities, disability will be taken into account. Persons with disabilities who result in a reduction in the autonomy of categories 4 or 5 will benefit from a recognition of penitibility, which will also allow them either to anticipate their retirement or to benefit from a higher pension. In order to take into account the advice of the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities, the draft legislation that I will shortly submit to my government partners extends this benefit to persons with disabilities with a category 3 reduction in autonomy. With regard to taking account of technological developments and working conditions, the preliminary draft law provides that the assessment of function-related hardship must take account of developments in the labour market and measures taken to reduce hardship. Therefore, it is expected that the list will be evaluated every five years. The hardship associated with certain functions may disappear as a result of technological change or as a result of preventive measures taken by the employer. New occupations affected by one or the other element of penitibility may also appear. As far as the budget envelopes are concerned, they have not changed. They are still the ones that were decided by the government when the 2017 initial was set up. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the report of 12 December 2016 of the National Pension Committee, approved by all members, clearly indicates that the introduction of the criteria for the heavy functions should take place with respect for the foreseen budgetary envelope. All the discussions I have are always taking place with the concern of meeting the budgetary objectives. Moreover, the Federal Planning Office will be called upon to analyse the long-term budgetary impact of the reform when all the elements of the reform will be definitively established. It is clear that this reform should not jeopardise the reduction of ageing costs resulting from the reforms that have been adopted since the beginning of this legislature. It should be noted that the Federal Planning Office will also be invited to assess the impact of this reform on the evolution of the average age of exit from the labour market. It is indeed important to consider whether this reform will not hinder the continuation of the increase in the average age of exit over the coming years. It is often said that the pension bonus has been removed and that the penitential bonus has been added. This obviously has nothing to do with the fact that the pension bonus applied, regardless of the length of the job, and did not take account of the length of the job. These are two completely different things. It seems to me to have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u20	Minister, thank you for the various elements of the answer that I am not going to resume one by one. We will still have an opportunity to discuss it, especially since there are many unknowns in the end about this consultation, in this view of the Plan Office, with the reaction of your government partners. In any case, I hope that if the reform comes to Parliament's table,... Let us not forget the context in which this law is prepared and should come. It is expected by the workers. Indeed, it comes after the hard reforms that you have taken to raise the legal age, to tighten access to the early pension, to abolish the pension bonus. It is in this context that it is expected, and this must enable workers who are in difficulty, particularly health care workers, to leave earlier, i.e. before they are sick or dismissed by their employer. If I hear correctly, you confirm that they will be able to leave earlier but with a lower pension. I am not sure that this is the expected answer to their needs. So here's a first element of "principal" reaction to this reform. At the negotiating level, to hear you, I have the feeling that it's folded at committee A, that you're not going to go back and that it's settled. That's not exactly what I saw in the unions. Remember the demonstration that brought together tens of thousands of workers. And I think it's not over. I have the feeling that, in the private sector, everyone is against it. Therefore, the work remains important. I hear you say the government should have finished its work before the holidays. I assume this is the second reading and the third reading will come after the Plan Office has actually started its work, after this second passage to the government before the holidays. As I understand it, we will discuss it here at the end of September-early October, or even mid-October. We will then have a much finer analysis of the situation and you will respond to the real needs of the workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. We have to note that there is still no answer to the very pertinent questions, that much remains to be discussed and discussed and that we will have to ask most of the questions again in September. I have another question. Probably because of my lack of knowledge of French. Do I understand correctly that the public sector is still talking about heavy-duty professions and heavy-duty jobs in the private sector? Or will everything now be reduced to heavy functions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u22	It is always a question of arduous duties. In the police, for example, there are administrative officers who are part of the police but who will not have recognition of a difficult profession.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u23	On the list, there are no functions. There are jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u24	Not exactly. I think there is also a notion of functions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u25	There is, for example, the post office. It's not a function.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u26	It's the list of unions, it's not definitive. For teachers, they did not take over school management positions, for example, which is part of the teaching staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u27	My question is: will there be two different lists, one for the public sector and one for the private sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u28	Yes, of course, since in the private sector, the majority of public functions do not exist. There are no military, police officers, teachers, firefighters in the private sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u29	Yeah, but it's the trades. It's not the functions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u30	It is therefore normal for there to be two lists.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u31	You confirm that there will be two lists of functions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u32	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answers. I agree with you on two points. First, it is important that we move forward on the issue of the public sector, but also on the issue of the private sector. A parallelism must be established, since some functions are similar. Moreover, there can be no question of treating the same function differently depending on whether it is the responsibility of the public or the private sector. I think, for example, of nursing staff, nurses... However, recognize that there are specific characteristics specific to each sector. In any case, it is necessary to move forward in the recognition of difficult functions, wherever they are performed. Secondly, I consider it essential that people with disabilities be taken into account. I will, of course, also look at the text from this point of view. To put it frankly, the content of the agreement which was reached at Committee A level remains problematic, if not nebulous. On the one hand, two unions were very constructive – and we must be able to recognise it – and clearly stated that the agreement included the famous list of painful trades. On the other hand, the government is linked to this text, but explains that no list has been drawn up and, therefore, no agreement has been reached. More than that, a royal decree will have to take it back before going back to the government. I imagine that at that time no more consultation with the social partners will be possible. I don't know what game it's about. However, this demonstrates the problematic manner in which the negotiations took place. The agreement dealt with a certain framework, but it is perceived a posteriori that it has been detrigued, to the point that it no longer understands what the unions have expressed themselves. For me, this part is still nebulous. It is always said that the devil is in detail. Depending on the famous technical questions that you have raised, depending on the evolution (since you say there is no agreement) of this list that will come in a royal decree, we know that many things can be changed. I appeal, when negotiating with trade union organisations and when they have a constructive attitude, to fully respect the agreements, otherwise it would be a game of fools that would not be acceptable. I hope that in terms of timing, the government will make clear commitments before the end of this legislature and that there will be no political games that would result in the files not being implemented. That would really not be correct with regard to the sometimes brutal reforms that have been taken. If you'll allow me, Mr. President, I'll just add a little point. It is known that for a number of functions in the public sector, on which I stop for a moment, there are preferential tantèmes regimes which have not yet been abolished. I am thinking, for example, of the military. I am also thinking of SNCB. It seems to me important to reiterate here how essential it will be, in a comprehensive reform, to have extremely strong and important transitional measures in order to avoid ending up with people who would be particularly injured because they would be at the door of their entry into the current pension scheme, which would therefore be abolished.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u34	Minister, I asked you a question about the comparison of the budget envelopes for the tyrennials abolished in the public service in relation to the envelope of difficult trades. I didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u35	It's the Plan Bureau that's going to calculate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u36	Is that your answer? Is the Plan Office going to calculate? So, we don't have figures yet. You listened to the answer better than I did. So that's your answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u37	That's 40 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u38	16 and 24.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u39	What about the tantèmes?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u40	The tantèmes have nothing to do with these envelopes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u41	We have to compare...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u42	You will compare!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u43	You're not answering.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u44	(...) priceless (...) That is not important to you, I know.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u45	You should read the pension report about the funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u46	(...) Follow the communists. That's even better.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u47	On the fact that there would be no reduction in the amount of the pension, I gave you an example and you did not answer at all. You simply stated that there was no decline, without showing your claim.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u48	(...) the method of calculating the amount of the pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u49	For me, we touch it! The tantèmes disappearing, so the amount is going to be affected. If we replace pre-pensions with difficult jobs, there are no longer any contributions in this context. Both in the private sector and in the public sector, this will have an impact on the amount of pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u50	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I am pleased that you have confirmed once again that the parameters and framework conditions agreed will be respected and that you will have the Planning Office calculated in detail. In addition, I have heard two interesting things. Firstly, you have confirmed that there are two lists of functions, both in the private and in the public sector. That is a step in the right direction and better than talking about professions. If possible, a further step should be taken towards more and more tasks. They're even more detailed than functions. Secondly, you said that that list could change. I understand she's being established for five years. Depending on technological developments and the measures taken by employers in the field of prevention, a heavy function may become a less difficult function. That is also a good thing, because I found that prevention, workable work and the evolution from heavy to less heavy work in an end-of-life career had disappeared throughout the discussion on the lists. I understand from your reply that this concept, albeit in a cautious way, is being taken into account again in the debate. I'm not sure what Professor Stijn Baert said is feasible. It concerned the application of a number of European indicators and parameters to both the private and public sectors. I haven't tried that application yet, but I think it's interesting. If the file is stalled, then perhaps it should be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u51	Thank you for your reply, Minister. We already know a lot of things, but what I have learned today is that it will not be clear until after the summer holidays. After the summer holidays can also be in 2085. After the summer holidays, infinity follows. At what point do you expect that clarity? Before the end of the year or will you step on the gas pedal in September and be ready by the end of September?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u52	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u53	The question is also until when the summer holiday in Parliament lasts. In view of the experience of six and twelve years ago, summer holidays often last until mid-October, yet in Parliament. In any case not before 21 July, we have already learned that. In substance, you are in favour of equal treatment for the private and public sectors. I am pleased with that. If I am not mistaken, the list proposed by the trade unions included the profession of bus driver at De Lijn and TEC. Were the bus drivers on the union list? Yeah? Then we must do the same for the private sector. I know a lot of bus drivers around Meli and a lot of school bus drivers. They must also be put on them. One has to know what one is getting into. Equal treatment is good.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u54	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u55	Yeah, I was talking about tasks and functions. You've seen that now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u56	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u57	Yeah, if he drives. If he's in the bathroom, it's not a big deal. Secondly, I find it interesting that you say that it is about functions and tasks, not about professions. For example, there's a police officer on the list right now, but a cop who does desk work or detective work isn't on the street, so I'm not calling that a tough job. It is, of course, difficult to sit there and do paperwork, as we do a lot of paperwork here. I therefore understand from that reasoning that a distinction must be made between heavy and non-heavy tasks within the profession. Thirdly, with regard to funding, you have said the following, which I find very clear and new: The tantèmes have nothing to do with the envelope. This means that we will use the reform of the tantiemes to control the cost of ageing, which is a concern for all of us, except for the communists. This means that we must remain within closed envelopes: EUR 16 plus EUR 24 million, and then rising amounts. We have to take that into account. You have not responded to Professor Baert's proposal, but there are, of course, a thousand and one proposals and you do not have to respond to every proposal. That's your right. What concerns me, however, is the calculation of the Planning Bureau. You said that you want to have the calculation done by the Planning Bureau after all the elements have been recorded. If, however, it turns out that the calculation is miserable, then nothing can be done about it. One lets the calculation be made best before everything is recorded, otherwise it may be that everything becomes priceless. For me, that is the mystery of our faith.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u58	We will conclude with this. We are not, of course, asking you, Minister, to answer this question. We're not gonna make it too hard, either.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u59	Minister, we remain in the same theme, that of the penitibility of railway workers. Following discussions on the memorandum of understanding on the draft law on the recognition of penitibility, CGSP-Cheminots indicated that it had received your confirmation that not all railway workers will be included on the list of agents with a penitibility factor. The workers' representative organisation states that replacing preferential years with penitential coefficients will always extend the duration of career years but without increasing the amount of the pension. Minister, can you tell us about the discussions between your office and the representatives of the CGSP-Cheminots? What were the themes that led to this potential social conflict? What are the next planned steps of consultation on your project for the status of railway workers in the probable future regime of penitibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u60	(...) on 4 April, the draft law on the recognition of the tenability of certain functions in the public sector. This draft bill, which was the subject of a memorandum of understanding with two unions in Committee A, provides for the abolition of the last two special public service regimes, namely the military and the SNCB rolling staff. The draft law provides for an important transitional provision since the minimum retirement age is gradually raised over a period of 20 years. It is not until 2040 that the normal terms and conditions of the advance pension will apply to both members and SNCB rolling personnel. These are included in the list of difficult functions proposed by the trade unions. This list, which will be the subject of a royal decree, has yet to be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. My cabinet has indeed met twice with the union representatives of the railway workers and at no time have they expressed any opposition to the proposed reform. It was therefore with a relative astonishment that I became aware of the notice of strike filed by CGSP-Cheminots.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u61	I'm surprised at your astonishment. It's all right when they're in your presence...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u62	Double speech!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u63	That's surprising. Do you intend to relaunch the concertation to remove this ambiguity?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u64	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u65	Any further steps on your part? I'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u66	Mr President, I must apologise, because this should have been a written question. Because I would have liked to have the calculations. Minister, in March, a newspaper appeared on the front page of a newspaper that the budget deficit had increased by EUR 1.4 billion. A large proportion of this was due to the increase in pension expenditure of some 265 million euros. It was a miscalculation of the service. You said that was the direct consequence of the policy. I would have liked to have seen the calculation on which you base yourself, since the service itself apparently had not made that calculation in advance or had miscalculated. Minister, if you have a table of figures, you can give it to me in this way. This is a written question rather than an oral one.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u67	I can simply say that the Monitoring Committee noted, in its March report, a difference in the pension budget... In its report of March 2018, the Monitoring Committee identified a difference of EUR 440 million in the pension budget between the initial 2018 budget and the 2018 budget control, made in March 2018. It is wrong to speak of an additional edition in just two months' time. As indicated by the Monitoring Committee, the increase in the budget is partly explained by the fact that in the preparation of the 2018 budgetary control an indexation of pensions was taken into account in October 2018 as well as the increase of 0.6% of the minimum pensions for a full career on 1 January 2018. The report of the Monitoring Committee then indicates that almost half of the increase in the budget is explained by a higher estimate by the Federal Pension Service of the average benefit per beneficiary. In other words, this is an increase in the average amount of pension. The Federal Pension Service declares the higher assessment, in particular by extending the careers as a result of measures taken by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u68	Mr Minister, I am sorry, but I continue to find that very bizarre. If the government takes measures, will they be calculated immediately and entered in the budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u69	That has been done.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u70	No, it wasn't done. Otherwise, there would have been no lag. The indexation may not have been predicted. But for all the measures taken by the government, the consequences could be predicted and included in the calculations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u71	At that time, no decision had been taken on the increase of 0,7% for the entire career. This has not been decided beforehand. It was then decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u72	You make decisions, but you don't calculate the impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u73	Yes, that's why it was subsequently changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u74	No, because then you should have done it at the beginning. It's a very bizarre argument. I'll get the exact numbers. I believe that there is more going on, especially because you claim that spending is higher because of your good policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u75	Minister, there are some voices in the government who still want to get the pension on a point basis, when there is little public support for this project. We saw it again during the demonstrations in December 2017 and last May. Our dear President, Mr. Van Quickenborne, said on several occasions in interviews that point pension was the most important element of the reform and that it should be set up before the next elections in the form of a framework agreement. The next government will then have to work on it, so that the plan actually comes into effect in 2025 or 2030. Minister, do you share this view? Are you considering working on a framework agreement by the end of the legislature? As you know, neither the social partners nor the public support this project. Many academics also criticise him. What is the status of your new reform? What stage has it reached? In countries where this measure has been introduced - Germany and Sweden - the pension is declining and people have to work longer to keep the same amount. How do you assess this evolution? This reduction in pensions is also the desired result in our country. Finally, are the criteria that will determine the value of a point now defined with certainty? At what point in their career will the workers finally know the amount of their pension?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u76	Dear colleague, I would remind you that the government agreement provides for the legal basis for the point pension to enter into force in 2030. Since the beginning of the legislature, we have already done a great deal of work on this reform. The academic council, and therefore the academics in general, which propose this system, Mr Van Hees, the Federal Pensions Service, which also proposes this system, and INASTI have drawn up a joint note on the implementation of the point system. In fact, the Administration believes in this note to be able to anticipate the entry into force of the point pension at 2025. In June 2017, I presented a guidance note that initiated the discussion on point pension with the social partners at the National Pension Committee. A final report of these discussions, which lasted several months, was prepared in January this year. The Federal Planning Office has also worked extensively on this issue. For example, he drew up a report in September 2017, stressing that the reform "would be especially beneficial for women, the low-skilled and the social beneficiaries". This report confirms that of the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040, which stresses that this reform is "socially interesting", in particular because the pension will be more related to the career achieved and to the evolution of wages. As you rightly point out in your question, other European countries have already adopted the point pension. The French Government has recently announced its intention to also move forward in a reform aimed at setting up the point system. This tends to gradually become the norm in Europe. This is an important reform, which will require several more months of work, in particular to continue the social dialogue. I am well aware that electoral deadlines are approaching and that this perspective has the effect of heating up certain minds in the opposition, who do not hesitate, it seems to me, to tell anything about the subject. In my view, the debate on reforming our pension system deserves better. The entry into force of the point pension will therefore take place at the earliest in 2025. I do not intend to be locked in a timetable, because this reform requires serenity. I have already said on various occasions that there is no race against the clock and that this is not a sprint, but a background race.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u77	In relation to my questions, is there finally a framework agreement? You agree with that, Mr. President? Are you satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u78	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u79	So, Mr. Minister defended a framework agreement in your opinion? Was that in his answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u80	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u81	Oh, yes. There you go. It is interesting to note that you do not answer questions about the negative examples of Germany and Sweden. You say that this has indeed taken place in Germany and Sweden. But you do not answer that it reduces the amount of the pension and that people have to work longer to get the same pension. Why don't you answer? This case is likely to happen if the measure passes in Belgium, although I do not think it passes because the challenge against this reform is strong. The result would then be negative for pensioners, in the same way as all of your pension reforms, since everything is about spending less on pensions and getting people to work longer and earn less.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u82	Mr Minister, my question concerns the transposition of the IORP II Directive. Our country was the first to transpose the first directive on pan-European pension funds. The second Directive should be transposed by 13 January 2019. That will be soon, Minister. Hence my question, to put a little pressure on this. When will you bring the draft law transposing the IORP II directive to the government table and to the committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u83	Mr. Secretary, I will go straight to my questions. The context is known. What are the main elements that need to be adapted in national legislation? What is the state of preparation? Who will you involve in the drafting of the regulations? What's the timing? How much time will institutions have for occupational retirement provision to implement the new rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u84	The IORP II Directive should be transposed by 13 January 2019. Like most European countries, we are in the final phase of preparation for transposition. On 11 June 2018, the European Commission organised a workshop on the transposition of the IORP II Directive with delegations from the different Member States. A Belgian delegation was present. The transposition of the IORP II Directive implies the amendment of the Law of 27 October 2006 on the supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision. The Directive introduces a new governance system. In Belgium, institutions for occupational retirement provision already apply the principles of good governance, but the law only aims at general principles. A circular letter from the FSMA explains what this means for institutions for occupational retirement provision. It is now necessary to incorporate into our legislation all aspects of the directive which aim at sound management. Other shutters also need to be revised, in particular the cross-border part of our legislation needs to be adapted and part of the information should be added. It should also be ensured that the control framework set up by institutions for occupational retirement provision is in accordance with the provisions of the Directive. At the same time, current social legislation on supplementary pensions should be reviewed in the light of the Directive. The whole of these points is in the final phase of the analysis and working meetings have taken place between my cabinet and the FSMA. I intend to submit a bill in the next few weeks. Finally, in order to answer Mrs Becq's legitimate question as regards the period during which institutions have access to occupational retirement provision to comply with the new legislation, it is clear that I will take this into account. This seems to me to be necessary, both for the institutions for occupational retirement provision and for the FSMA, which must be able to carry out effective controls.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u85	Mr President, Minister, thank you for being so clear. I understand the final version is coming up. If we take into account the timing of this House, this will probably be the first work after the summer recess. To do it before the recess, it's gonna be close. It's a bulky and technical document. I therefore suspect that this will be the first legislative work after the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u86	Mr President, I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply. I want to be optimistic about the timing, but I do not think this will be the issue for the holidays. I do think it is important that the institutions are also aware of the changes that are to be made so that they can prepare themselves well and have time to comply with the new legislation and ensure that everything runs smoothly. I understand that you will certainly achieve the timing of the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u87	Mr President, on specific questions, I am asking this question to ask whether it concerns a general problem. The Law of 18 December 2015, following the agreement of the Group of Ten, introduced an adjustment to the supplementary pension scheme. I am thinking, among other things, of the change in the inclusion of supplementary pensions at the time of statutory retirement. In particular, in pension plans of the type of fixed benefit, the age is important, in particular the final age at which the benefits obtained are calculated. The reserves acquired are calculated from that age, including by applying an actualization factor, a technical foot that would not exceed 6%. This reflects the annual rate of return assumed between the current moment and the retirement age. The actualisation factor to be applied is determined in the pension regulations that were concluded at the time. It is reported that this rate of return, or the maximum foot, is 6% in most regulations. The Law of 18 December 2015 also used the logic that an early retirement should not yield a pension benefit in terms of pension capital received. Despite the transitional measures provided for, the actualisation factor still has a financial impact on those who take into account capital in the event of an early retirement even though they have proved 45 career years at the time of early retirement and reached the maximum number of years in their career formula. Are you aware of the fact that there are losers due to the application of that update factor, partly as a result of the law of 18 December? Are there many losers? Do you intend to take measures to meet this situation if necessary? Is it true that the maximum actualization factor no longer corresponds to the expected returns? Is there any provision for an evaluation of this? Possibly not, because one would want to ensure this as much as possible by keeping the contracts as they are.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u88	Mrs Becq, I can tell you that your question concerns the calculation of the minimum reserves acquired in a pension plan with fixed contributions. It does not concern the law of 18 December 2015. In fact, the supplementary pension law provides that the reserves acquired must be offset against the retirement age provided for in the regulation by the actualisation of the fixed benefit promised by the employer on the basis of the actualization rate and the mortality tables laid down in a pension regulation. It is therefore the pension rules that determine the actualization parameters. However, the law on supplementary pensions lays down a minimum level. The result of the updating on the basis of the parameters laid down in the pension regulation shall not result in the level of the reserves acquired being lower than that obtained by an actualisation of the fixed performance with a technical foot of 6% and the mortality tables MR/FR. The Law of 18 December 2015 is not related to that issue at all. It only clarifies when the supplementary pension can be paid. The problem is the minimum rate of up-to-dateness of 6%, on which the vast majority of pension regulations have been associated. I'm not against a review of that foot. However, Mrs Becq, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that such a change could have a significant impact on the financing of those pension plans. Moreover, on the basis of the regulations in force, a change of foot will only have an effect on the years that are carried out after the change. I therefore propose that the Commission's opinion on supplementary pensions be requested on a possible revision of this foot.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u89	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hear you say that you want to put the question to the Commission for Supplementary Pensions. Nor is it clear to me how many situations are involved, with an effective evolution into negative calculations. I therefore assume that this is a problem that is sufficiently broad for you to submit it effectively for advice to the Commission on Supplementary Pensions. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u90	Minister, this is a problem raised by the ombudsmen's office, namely the delay in dealing with the pensions files of the overseas territories. The acquisition of the DIBISS by the RSZ created a backlog, partly due to the transfer of paper files to digital files. It was also not that easy with the electronic files, with the result that these overseas pensions sometimes went on for quite a long time. From the ombudsdienst it is suggested that the RSZ would automatically award interest by analogy with the RSVZ's working method in 2015 in the case of a payment after the retirement date. At that time, there was also a late payment of pensions due to the introduction of the new information technology. Moreover, according to the ombudsdienst, the administrative practice of the RSZ is that an application may be submitted at the earliest three months before the start date and that interest is paid at the earliest from the second month of late payment. For the first month of late payment, pensioners will therefore not receive any interest. The ombudsdienst has been making the recommendation to adapt this since 2011. Are you aware of the delay in calculating and paying overseas social security pensions? In what way will you respond to the Ombudsmen's suggestion? I suppose you have a budget for that, too? Secondly, there is the lack of a legal provision concerning the date on which a pension application can be submitted and there is also the administrative practice to grant interest only after two months. Will you take action on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u91	My administration has indeed informed me that at the beginning of 2017 the RSZ experienced several difficulties in managing the overseas social security files. This is due to a combination of different circumstances, including the integration of DIBISS into the RSZ, the implementation of the electronic file, a shortage of staff and the adjustment of the tariffs and baremas of overseas social security. The RSZ has taken initiatives to restore the quality of the service, such as the reorganisation of the service, the recruitment of staff under the runway contracts and better support for the front offices and the reception of visitors. Moreover, these efforts were highlighted by the Ombudsman Pensions. As far as time limits are concerned, no legal time limit is currently set for the submission of a pension application to the overseas social security institution. However, according to the administrative practice in force, the application shall be submitted at the earliest three months before the date of commencement of the pension. Where interest is due in case of late payment, it shall be due from the expiry of a period of four months from the date of application and at the earliest from the date of commencement of the performance. It follows from the combination of those two periods that the payment of interest may begin at the earliest from the second month of retirement, without compensation for the delay in the first month. For this reason, the deadline for inviting the person concerned to submit an application was extended from three months to four months from 1 May 2018. That information was announced on the website international.socialsecurity.be and in letters sent to the social insurance companies. In the case of interest payments, these will therefore be paid from the first month. For insured persons affected by late payments, the payment of interest on late payments will be carried out on application for the retirement pension applications submitted before 1 May 2018. However, for the applications submitted from 1 May 2018, the RSZ will automatically proceed to the payment of interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u92	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your answer. I understand that those concerned must ask themselves when they wish to obtain interest in arrears. That is why I think it is important for those involved to be informed, because otherwise it will be a measure of nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u93	Minister, the 1765 pension line would be difficult to reach from abroad. That line is apparently blocked because it is supposed to be an international service number and pensioners abroad do not have access to it according to their subscription. Telephone charges could also be disproportionately high. For this reason, the ombudsmen suggest that they move to a geographical number in stages. In addition, questions remain about services in general. These include long waiting times, despite the fact that many measures have already been taken to improve the 1765 line. Mr Minister, will there be measures to improve the accessibility of the pension line? Are we thinking about switching to a geographical number? What period is envisaged? In what way will you improve the internal functioning of the 1765 line? I will allow myself to add another question; you do not have to answer it if necessary. I am often told that anyone who consults mypension.be receives incorrect or inaccurate information or a different answer to the same question. Have you heard any echoes of this? I will try to put together a dossier containing such comments. That must be examined more closely, because it may also be about computer errors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u94	During the presentation of the Annual Report 2017 of the Ombudsmen for Pensions, I indeed took note of the complaints regarding the accessibility of the telephone line 1765 from abroad. In order to improve the provision of services to citizens residing abroad, I have asked the Federal Pension Service to examine the possibility proposed by the ombudsmen of introducing a geographical telephone number and the associated costs. In order to avoid unnecessary costs for citizens residing in Belgium and to retain a shorter and easily identifiable number, the new number would only be for citizens residing abroad. The governance agreement 2016-2018 related to the telephone line 1765 provides that 80% of the calls should be answered within 2.5 minutes. This target is currently not met by the sharp increase in the number of calls. I asked the FPD to analyse the situation and propose improvement measures. A first measure has already been implemented to increase the multivalency of the staff of the contact centres. As I attach great importance to the accessibility of the FPD to citizens, I will continue to follow the issue closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u95	Minister, I understand that you are looking for a solution for those who are staying abroad. You stated that the target is to answer 80% of the calls within 2.5 minutes. Does that mean that the answer is given in full and the call is terminated within 2.5 minutes or that the person is spoken to within 2.5 minutes? Then it would be quite long and then I think there is still some work to be done to optimize the song.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u96	Mr Minister, I tabled this question on 14 May following the announcement that some banks would try to find out the data of their customers' statutory pensions. One would try to make an agreement with your pension administration. If banks receive confidential, individual data from citizens' statutory pensions, they can use them to advertise their own commercial pension products. That's a breach of privacy and privacy law. Was that question put to the Privacy Commission? What is your overall policy in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u97	I want to reassure you right away. The Federal Pension Service does not provide any personal information to third parties and therefore not to financial institutions. That is not being considered for the future either. I would point out that the FPD always respects the rules on the protection of privacy. Mypension.be, the secure electronic file, can only be consulted by the citizen, who can, of course, freely choose what he uses his data for and thus to whom he transmits it. A citizen can therefore print his own personal data and deliver it to his bank, so that he can offer him a financial plan. There is also the possibility for the various federal public services to give a power of attorney or a mandate to a third party to allow the consultation and management of the electronic files. That system of mandates is currently being used in the context of taxation, on Tax-on-web, and the medical file, on the eHealth platform. A well-known example is the accountant, who receives a mandate from a citizen to manage his tax return through the application of Tax-on-web. Mypension.be is currently not accessible through that federal mandate system. The FPD is currently investigating whether integration of mypension.be into that system could be appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u98	Thank you for your clear answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u99	Mr President, Minister, from 2019 onwards, those who started work before the age of 20 and have a career of more than 45 years will receive less pension if they are dismissed in the last few years of their career. The pension will then no longer be calculated on the 45 last and best years but on the 45 first years of career. Those who have already had a career of 45 years could or can, in fact, be retired in 2018. I believe the ultimate date is December 1, 2018. However, according to some, this date was postponed to 1 January 2019. So anyone who has a career of 45 years could still retire and therefore not have this loss. However, SWTs cannot retire today before their 65 years. You had already announced that this would change. My question is therefore whether this will happen soon, so that they can retire in 2018 and before their 65th birthday. I am talking here about people who have a full career of 45 years. Will this regulation only start in December and will therefore be published too late, as was the case in 2017 for the regularisation of study years? In that case, those concerned will no longer be able to claim an early retirement. They will lose those two years, or more, if they started working before 18 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u100	Mr President, the law that abolished the restriction to the unity of career for effective working periods has also introduced the possibility for SWTs to retire early once they meet the age and career conditions. Such a provision was made possible by the abolition of Paragraph 4 of Article 4 of the Royal Decree of 23 December 1996 which contains the prohibition on early retirement for bridge pensioners and SWTs. Article 4 of the Law of 5 December 2017 amending several provisions relating to pension schemes for employed and self-employed persons establishes the principle of the unity of career and early retirement pension. One will be able to retire early as a SWT member from 1 January 2019, the date of entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u101	If it is from 1 January 2019, those who already have a career of 45 years and at the end of their career are going to have the misfortune of becoming unemployed, we will only look at the people of Carrefour, then effectively lose pension. If they had kept the date of 1 January 2018, they could enjoy their career of 45 years. These people lose their pension because of your measure and are therefore punished twice: they become unemployed and they are punished in their pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u102	Minister, I have spoken to you on a number of occasions. As a result of the new legislation, I would like to address you once again. In the coming years, hospitals that have been merged with an OCMW hospital will in any case receive heavier invoices for the pension account of their fixed-term recipients. These are just legal vehicles today, in which the statutory documents are parked and the statutory documents are wiped out with the intention that no one remains in the new merged hospitals. No new statutes will therefore be recruited. The employers pay a contribution today because they simply have fewer statutory contributions and thus have more pension mass to pay than the basic contributions they pay. These are usually mergers that entered into force before the so-called Daerden Act of 24 October 2011 on the financing of pensions for local civil servants' pensions. It establishes a response, requiring the administration to continue to bear the pension costs until the last statutory member of staff has retired. With the recently adopted legislation on the mixed pension, with the measures for local pension financing, the employers of the legal vehicles are now double punished. They cannot offer supplementary pensions to statutory staff. They can't do that anyway. Consequently, they cannot benefit from the discount you provide when an organisation can give a supplementary pension. They cannot offer this because they only have statutory staff and therefore cannot benefit from the discount. They will therefore be subject to a double penalty on the basis of the new rules. Recently, despite a series of approved adjustments to local pension financing, the funds of the Budget Financial Resources via Mrs De Block and the new tax shift budget line, which is the first of many hospitals to be in difficulty and could no longer guarantee the pension payment of the statutory contributions. Other merged hospitals are also likely to face the same problems in the long term. That is why, Minister, I would have liked to have had some insight into the problem. I assume that you are obviously aware of the problem and that you can acknowledge the reasoning and agree that the vehicles with the debilitating statutory contributions and the loss of the discount will double the costs because they cannot offer a supplementary pension. Which merged hospitals will, in chronological order, face the financing problem in the long term? Which adjustment is de facto temporary in nature, because they will all go out of control and you will propose to compensate for the neutralization of the increases in the contributions of these vehicles? What other structural measures, if any, will you propose? By what time can we expect action? I put my other question to you, because there is a new social agreement, which creates additional problems. A supplementary pension scheme for contractual staff shall be established. As a result, 50% of the costs incurred by the employer for the supplementary pension of the contractual staff may be deducted from the responsibility bill during the calendar year under consideration. That is a good measure in itself. However, the supplementary pension is expected to be sufficiently high, with a phaser over time. For a commitment of the type of fixed contribution, the contribution should be at least 2 % from 1 January 2020 and 3 % from 1 January 2021. Those percentages are well above what is customary in the hospital sector. They do not use such percentages there. For example, the recent social agreements for the federal health sectors aim at a second pillar of 0.6% of wages. So you will never get the percentages you're imposing to get the discount. I assume you've made a match between the social agreement and your measure. Then how will you reconcile your requested phasing of 2 and 3 % with the 0.6% provided for in the social agreements for the hospital sector? I therefore assume that you will take exceptional measures so that hospitals can still benefit from the reduction in the contribution to the response. Indeed, even if they have a pension plan for the contractual staff, they will be penalised once again in addition to what they already pay for the contribution of the statutory staff. They are made available, which is a very special system. I hope that this mechanism will be understood, because that really creates regulatory problems as it has been developed today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u103	I am of course aware that some hospitals employ only statutory staff and cannot, by definition, set up a second pillar for their contractual employees. We have already discussed this question together during our work in the Social Affairs Committee on the law of 30 March 2018. In that context, I had indicated that those hospitals would not be punised. So the law has no impact on those hospitals. To your question about a chronological overview of the merged hospitals that will face financial problems, I am unable to answer, since I do not know the individual financial situation of each of those hospitals. The mechanism of the Response Contribution was introduced by the Law of 24 October 2011. The financial consequences for hospitals as a result of this contribution do not fall within my competence, but rather within that of my colleague Maggie De Block. With regard to hospitals employing contractual staff, I am aware of the social agreements providing for a supplementary pension of 0.6% of wages for the federal care sector. These agreements, however, do not belong to my powers, but to the powers of my colleagues Maggie De Block and Kris Peeters. As far as I am concerned, I can tell you that I cannot provide for an exception to allow hospitals to benefit from the reduction in the response contribution. This would mean that an exception would be introduced for hospitals within the response contribution mechanism, an exception already rejected by the adoption of the Law of 24 October 2011 due to an unjustified difference in treatment. At that time it was already clarified that this question concerns a problem of financing the hospitals for which a solution has to be found, not through pensions, but through the budget of the financial resources for hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u104	Minister, I understand that you refer me to your colleague De Block, but you are part of the government together. I have a feeling you don't understand the mechanism. There are hospitals that have been merged. Let me give you a very concrete example. An OCMW hospital merges into a non-profit organisation and the OCMW remains in a legal vehicle. The statutes that worked in that hospital remain there in a legal entity, but are simply made available. Those hospitals pay the wages of those people and they also have to pay the response contribution. So that bill's running up. The intention is that these statutes should fade out. So there's no one else in that vehicle. Every time someone retires or leaves, it reduces. This means, however, that at the same time the invoice for that legal vehicle is increasing, because the agreement is that there will be no statutory contributions. It's a deafening system. As there are fewer statutory documents, that invoice is increasing. You are now setting out a system for ordinary local authorities, which I understand. If you give the contractual staff a supplementary pension, you give a discount on the resilience contribution, but those who need it most, who get the largest invoice, cannot enter that system, because they have no contractual obligations. That is a legal vehicle in which statutory regulations are in place and which is simply being extinct. I don't understand why you're not joining a system to neutralize the response contribution. That is what the coalition agreement says, by the way. You are simply saying: I am sorry, Mr Vercamer, draw your plan with Minister De Block, I am not going to care. This really isn't the way to solve this problem, by setting hospitals and local authorities for fulfilled facts without offering a solution. This is in the coalition agreement. Telling Mrs. De Block to take care of this, I don't think it's the right way to go. I think you should take care of this together. I expect you and Minister De Block to find answers to solve this problem. If not, you will make sure that hospitals will have real financial problems, which can never be the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u105	I fully understand the situation, but without any money from the hospital budget, if we make exceptions, it is the municipalities that will pay the hospital accountability fee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u106	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u107	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dispa's 25639 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u108	Minister, this is not a matter of today, but the least we can say is that it is going in circles. Some military personnel performing a paramedical function in Defence receive an 11% salary supplement for irregular benefits. This supplement is subject to a pension deduction but has not been included in the pension calculation since 2011. You have personally confirmed that the 11% supplement cannot be taken into account either in the calculation of the pension of civilian defence personnel or in the pension of military personnel, in the current state of the legislation. In order to incorporate it into the calculation of the pension, the legal basis of the supplement should be added to the list contained in the General Law on Civil and Ecclesiastical Pensions by means of a royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers. However, successive positions have not led to concrete decisions. The phrases are, however, a year and a half since, on January 20, 2017, you announced that you would shortly (say at that time) propose to include in this list the 11% salary supplements for irregular benefits of military personnel, given the request made by the Minister of Defence. On May 30, 2017, you stated that the royal decree was still in preparation with your administration. The budgetary impact was still to be assessed. On July 27, 2017, Minister Vandeput confirmed that the adjustment of the Royal Order was your responsibility. Today is June 2018! What is the status of this issue today? I can understand the people directly concerned who are starting to wonder if they are not being played. What is the status of the Royal Decree which will include the salary supplement to which I refer in the list of supplements taken into account for the calculation of the pension? You've made a commitment on several occasions, as have the government and the Minister of Defence. What are the reasons why the file has not yet found a solution? Do you intend, yes or no, to concretely fulfill your oral commitments? Has the budget impact of the proposed amendment been assessed? If the supplement is taken into account in the calculation of the pension for the future, I believe it will have to be logically and fairly considered to regularise the pensions of the persons concerned since 2011. This concerns a limited number of pensioners, but it is a matter of justice in relation to the way in which they were treated in pension matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u109	Last week, the Federal Pension Service sent me a draft royal decree to allow the 11% supplement to be taken into account, which was granted because of the irregular benefits of certain members of the civilian defence staff and of some members of the paramedical staff. It is my intention to submit this draft to the Council of Ministers for approval once I have received the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate and the approval of the Minister of Budget. The draft Royal Decree prepared by the Federal Pension Service provides for a retroactive effect, in order to provide a legal basis for the revision of pensions which, since 2011, have been calculated without taking into account this 11% supplement. The budgetary impact was calculated by the SFP. The cost for the public treasury for the period 2011-2018 amounts to 88,034.25 euros. It was calculated by making the difference between the additional pension expense resulting from the inclusion of this pension supplement and the 7.5% contribution revenue that was collected from this supplement during the same period.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u110	Thank you, Minister. Better late than never! I will cry out for victory on the day it will actually be published since there are still a few small steps to take. They're small amounts. I think this is really a question of fairness. Thank you, Minister, for making sure that the final steps are completed so that this corrective action can be applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u111	Mr President, Minister, one of the points of the government agreement is to increase access to minimum pensions by allowing all working or equivalent days, regardless of the system in which they are performed, to receive a minimum pension, provided that a minimum number of days is spent throughout the career. People with a mixed career, i.e. with a part of the status of a worker, part of the status of a self-employed person and/or part of the status of an official, sometimes, if they have not worked for enough years in a particular scheme, cannot claim the minimum pension, although they have actually worked for enough years if they count everything together. In the course of this legislature, however, arrangements were already made for the careers with a combination of employees and self-employed persons. However, this does not yet exist for those who have a partial career as civil servants. What initiatives will you take to meet this effectively? What's this arrangement gonna look like?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u112	Mr President, a first objective of the proposed reform of the minimum pension is indeed to take into account the opening up of the entitlement to the minimum pension of all periods performed or assimilated, regardless of the system in which those periods were performed, including those performed in the public sector. I asked the Federal Pension Service to prepare the necessary texts to submit them to the FPD Management Committee meeting in August.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u113	Mr President, Minister, that is good news if we succeed effectively in ensuring that this group has a minimum pension. Do you already have an idea of the content of the scheme, how many years and so on? After all, I did not understand that from your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u114	It is to take into account the years that have passed in any regime.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u115	And everything is equalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u116	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u117	At the request of VTM, Het Laatste Nieuws, RTL and Le Soir, the IPSOS investigation office recently conducted a survey of the retirement age of 2,532 Belgians aged 18 and over. The survey found that 66% of the population did not consider the possibility of working until the age of 67 and did not accept the government's decision to raise the statutory retirement age to 67 by 2030. Among those aged 35 to 54, 77% of Belgians are against it. In addition, three-quarters of respondents felt that they would never receive a decent legal pension. Minister, will you consider the results of this survey to adjust your pension policies? How can we justify a policy that is not supported by the population?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u118	Mr Van Hees, through this survey, I am pleased to see that the Belgians indicate that they are ready to work up to 62.3 years! This is a significant step forward from the current situation where the average effective exit age from the labour market was still 60 years, or even below that age, in 2014, according to OECD figures. One of the objectives of pension reform is precisely to reach the European average of almost 63 years, in order to take account of the increase in life expectancy. I would point out that setting the statutory retirement age at 67 does not mean that everyone will have to work up to 67 years. Today, the legal pension age is 65 and only 10% of Belgians work up to this age. Tomorrow, the actual retirement age, on average, will not be 67 years. By raising the age and career conditions for retirement, the government has in fact set a range between 60 and 67 years for retirement. Each person will therefore be able to leave between 60 and 67 years of age depending on the length of his or her career, the length of his or her job or his or her willingness to continue working. As regards the amount of the pension, the aim is to continue the reforms in order to raise pensions and increase the replacement rate, which is the ratio between the pension and the last wage. To achieve this, the government strengthened the 1st pillar by increasing the average career duration in Belgium by 32 years, the lowest of all European countries. The government has also taken initiatives to generalize the second pillar and supplementary pensions. Since the arrival of the Michel government, minimum pensions have been increased by 98 euros per month for employees and 160 euros for the self-employed. Reforming pensions means, of course, ensuring the social protection of Belgians and guaranteeing a decent pension for our children and grandchildren, and that is what we have been working on since this legislature, and that is not what the Communists do!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u119	Mr President, I would like to thank the support of multinationals and insurers and the minister for his answers. I think you misunderstood the population. People don't want to work longer, they can't work longer, they can't physically do it. The next question will confirm that. I take note of your answers, your averages regarding the age limits for retirement of 67 and 63 years, and your target of 63 years. For the ages you are advancing, to reach an average of 63 years, not everyone has to work up to 67 years, at what percentage do you estimate the number of people who will have to work beyond 65 years? Would it be interesting to know that to reach an average of 63 years? People consider that it is not possible to work until the age of 65. Therefore, working up to 66 or 67 years is even less possible. What percentage of people will have to work longer to reach your 63-year-old average? How many people will have to work beyond the age of 65 to reach your average? It would be interesting to know. Do you know that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u120	Ten percent now work to 65. That's a revolutionary figure. That's all about highly educated people. People with a master's degree, so people who do desk work, they say they can work till 67. They're gonna work till 67. But someone who doesn't have a degree and graduate at 18, 19 or 20 will be able to quit at 65.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u121	Mr Van Quickenborne, you know that you are no longer Minister of Pensions and that I was asking the minister the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u122	We're here together. We're having a debate. What's the problem? Isn't what I'm saying interesting? Is what I'm saying perhaps irrelevant?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u123	I wanted to know what the percentage is.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u124	I'll tell you what my estimate is: 10 percent to 65 years. Between 65 and 67 years, this is likely to be between 10 % and 20 % in an initial phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u125	In your reform, early retirement is 63 years old. Minister, your average age of 63 is the minimum age. How is that possible? I see that the minister is no longer listening, it is no use for me to continue. In any case, I did not have an answer to these supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u126	Minister, with the increase in the statutory retirement age and restrictions on pre-pension and early retirement, more and more people need to work longer. The question is whether these older workers will still be able to work at that age. Medical centers of Medicine for the People - an emanation of the PTB -, which practice free medicine...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u127	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u128	What makes you say that, minister? It's pretty mean as an attack, it's interesting. Studies have shown that the quality of care in medical homes is superior, including an intermutualist study. Care is better especially in terms of prevention, fight against excess antibiotics, etc., than the care of doctors who practice money medicine, as you probably did at one time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u129	Mr. President, could you please ask Mr. Van Hees to remove the insult he just uttered.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u130	Minister, you started with an insult, saying that Medicine for the People was not medicine.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u131	Mr President, I am no longer responding to Mr. Van Hees today!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u132	You've started!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u133	You've been saying that for four years. Ask your question!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u134	No, I won't answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u135	That's noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u136	But you have to answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u137	Mr Van Hees, I refuse to answer you! I'm not talking to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u138	Minister, you are not allowed not to answer me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u139	I don't care! You're an anti-democrat and a public insulter. I do not intend to engage in a dialogue with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u140	I am here as the elected representative of the people with parliamentary control powers, so you have to answer my question. Mr. Chairman, is the minister not obliged to answer my question?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u141	Mr Van Hees, the minister can say, "I'm not answering." That's an answer. I can only organize a meeting and ask everyone to do what they have to do. I cannot force the minister to respond by threatening him with a fine or a prison sentence!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u142	Mr President, I will ask my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u143	Read your questions instead of talking about anything!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u144	I was reading my question when the minister cut me off. It's serious! With the increase in the statutory retirement age and restrictions on pre-pension and early retirement, more and more people need to work longer. The question is whether all these older workers are still capable of working. A study of People's Medicine conducted among 3,052 men and women aged 55 to 67 shows that a majority of people at this age are no longer able to fully practise their profession. From the age of 55, 1 in 4 is totally disabled and 1 in 4 needs suitable work. From the age of 59, it will be 1 in 3 for both groups. At age 65, almost half of the population interviewed is totally unfit, and almost a third is partially disabled. This study shows that working longer hours, with or without adjusted work, is not feasible for many employees. The study shows that working longer, certainly without adapting working hours and the pace of work, is not feasible for a majority of the population studied between 55 and 67 years of age. In conclusion, at a certain age, most trades become painful. Minister, to what extent are you prepared to take this study into account in your reforms? In your budget calculation on pensions, have you also taken into account the increase in costs for INAMI if people who can no longer take their pension become ill?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u145	Mr President, I stand by what I said earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u146	Mr President, I find it very serious that a minister should avoid the obligation to submit to the control of the elected representatives of the people and refuse to answer a question. It's really new.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u147	Yes, it's very serious... let's move on to your next question, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u148	Mr. Chairman, your complacency with the minister is also very serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u149	We are not participating in the Communist plot. I asked the Minister to answer, and he answered. There's nothing else I can do. I can't force him, can I? I can't keep him at gunpoint, can I?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u150	Mr. President, you could still remind him...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u151	I've asked the Minister to answer two or three times. Come to your next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u152	Minister, the issue of the tax trap for pensions is not new and is known. It is characterised by the fact that, for certain categories of pension income, the marginal tax rate is close to 100%. At one time, he even exceeded them. This means that with a gross pension increase, the net pension decreased. The law has removed the most serious excess, so that the gross increase can no longer lead to a net decrease. However, we are still close to a marginal tax rate of 100%. That is why last week I asked Finance Minister Van Overtveldt – who, if he thought, had deigned to answer me – and I quote the report – "to reach a solution under this legislature". Then he said, "We'll try." Apart from the tax trap for pensions, public servants can no longer benefit free of charge from the increase in their years of study. If they want to enjoy it, they have to invest in their redemption. But the tax trap is not overcome, since the Minister of Finance explains that it is difficult to solve: "We will try." The risk is, therefore, that by buying back their years of study, public servants will ultimately invest at a loss. Minister, can you tell me more about the solution that your colleague in Finance doesn't seem to find? Are you going to come up with a solution? If you answered me, you'd say that's not your job. In this case, would it not be appropriate to review the system of buying back years of study, which presents a major risk?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u153	Mr President, the answer has already been given by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u154	The answer to the question I asked him; but the one I ask you is different, minister. Given the response of the Minister of Finance – "We are going to try" – who suggests that it is not certain to do so, should we not review your measure regarding the buy-back of the years of study? That's my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u155	Mr Van Hees, this is the question I'm reading. You must keep to the question that is being asked. "When will there finally be a solution to the retirement trap? How are you going to guarantee that the people who buy their years of study..." Your question has been asked in Dutch, but you will read everything in French. I don't understand. "How are you going to guarantee that people who buy their years of study will not be punished later, when it appears that they will have less net left at the time of a gross increase?" That was your question. That's not the question I heard. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u156	Minister, I ask you whether, given the response of the Minister of Finance, you are going to reconsider the question of buying back years of study.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u157	The answer is no.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u158	J'en prends acte.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u159	The problem is well known to you. For those who had a gross pension amount between EUR 15 570 and EUR 16 700 on an annual basis, an increase in the gross pension rate could lead to a reduction in the net pension. The problem is partly solved. As you pointed out in our committee and the Finance Committee, from the 2018 tax year onwards, a gross increase can no longer lead to a net reduction. You have done the necessary thing together with the Minister of Finance, for which I am very grateful. You also said that it was only a temporary solution. In order to avoid any fall in pensions, we must also, of course, ensure that any gross increase results in a net increase and that those who earn extra money on top of the pension are not, of course, penalised for this. Let us be honest, a solution has a price tag. In the meantime, what progress has been made by the working group you set up with the Minister of Finance to complete the retirement period? Are there any texts ready and, if so, when will they be submitted to the Council of Ministers? Are you committed, together with the Minister of Finance, to making a solution applicable from the 2019 attack year? Will there be budgetary costs and, if so, how many?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u160	Work with the Finance Office, which has the lead in the file, is ongoing. The Finance Office is currently working on possible scenarios, as it is a technically complex issue. Indeed, it is necessary to avoid that the solutions chosen to the problems cited entail other indirect undesirable effects. Budgetary estimates are always made, as there is, of course, a price tag attached to a solution. At the present stage of the work, however, I cannot give you any clarification, either on the content of the solutions or on the timing. I would add that the objective of course remains – and I have expressed it on a number of occasions – that any increase in gross pensions will result in a net pension increase.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u161	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u162	Minister, the solidarity contribution was introduced at the time by the Dehaene Government as a 'temporary crisis tax'. Now, 25 years later, that temporary crisis tax still exists. So far there is the temporaryity in taxes; we know that. When you answered my last question on the solidarity contribution a few months ago, you reiterated that you found the technical interest rate of 4.75% obsolete. You added that this would be included in the reduction of the solidarity contribution by 25% from 1 January 2019. Minister, I have recently heard the story of someone who has a statutory pension which is just below the legal limit of EUR 2 311.97. However, because he also received a net supplementary pension capital of EUR 9 500 once, he has to pay a monthly solidarity contribution of EUR 31.17. In other words, in 25 years he has completely lost the net supplementary pension capital of EUR 9 500. That's completely taken away by the state. Do you agree with me that this really cannot be the intention? As far as my group is concerned, it is crucial that the reduction should be made, that the adjustment of supplementary pension capital should be made in the future in a more correct way and that the reform should be particularly beneficial to average pensions, particularly pensions which, according to the current rules, are just above the threshold and, of course, not for the highest pensions, such as in the caricature that some of them make. You know who I mean, of course. Minister, I have a few questions about this. What steps have you already taken to prepare for the reduction of the solidarity contribution from 1 January 2019? What budget is available for this? Will you opt for a reduction in the contribution rate, an increase in the thresholds and/or a reduction in the technical interest rate and an update of the mortality tables for the conversion of supplementary pension capital into a fictitious interest rate?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u163	Mr President, I asked the Federal Pension Service to prepare the texts implementing the 25% reduction in the solidarity contribution from 1 January 2019. It is my intention to adjust the limits which give rise to the retention of the solidarity contribution. In this way, the lowest pensions most affected by the contribution will benefit most from the measure. I've asked the FPD to propose new border amounts, which take into account the 87 million budget. The intention is to submit the texts to the A Committee in July and to the Management Committee of the Federal Pension Service at the end of August.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u164	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u165	Minister, the Federal Pension Service (FPS), responsible for the allocation and payment of statutory pensions and also playing a secondary role in the management of certain supplementary pensions, also referred to as second pillar pensions, decided to resell this second pillar portfolio, he announced on Monday, 11 June, the decision having been taken earlier. It is regrettable that this decision deprives local authorities and other employers of a different supplementary pension operator, characterised by its soundness and prudent placement policy, which is part of the public sphere. Minister, has this decision been made unanimously by the members of the FPS Management Committee? How many members have the second pillar within the SFP, in terms of employers and workers? What is the outstanding amount of this second pillar? What are the investment rules governing the management of this second pension pillar within the SFP? Has a specific specification to be complied with by the candidates for purchase been drawn up? What conditions have been laid down for applicants to purchase this pension fund in terms of type of investment to be carried out, prudence and ethics? Is the intention to maintain a structural link and collaboration between the SFP and its second pillar?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u166	Mr Gilkinet, the decision of the SFP Management Committee of 18 December 2017 to terminate his business as an insurer follows a letter I sent in January 2017 to the Chairman of the SFP. In this letter, I drew the attention of the members of the Management Committee to a number of worrying elements concerning this activity. I asked them whether they should not consider refocusing on the management of the first pillar of pension, which is in fact the main activity of the Federal Pension Service, and urgently abandoning this activity as an insurer. The concerns were twofold. They dealt, on the one hand, with the management of the activity which was not sufficiently adapted to the challenges of such an activity and, on the other hand, with the financial sustainability of the activity in the coming years. These elements were considered sufficiently serious by the National Bank of Belgium, which is responsible for the supervision of insurance undertakings, to decide to conduct an inspection of the second pillar activity of the Federal Pension Service. After almost a year of discussion, the members of the management committee decided to terminate this activity. The Chairman of the Committee informed me that the decision had been taken by 5 positive votes with 5 abstentions. I welcome this decision. I am indeed of the opinion that this should be done. As for the number of members involved in the second pillar of the SFP, it has three sectors and ten employers representing a total of 108,684 members as at 31 December 2017. The SFP also acts as a reception structure and is active in the third pension pillar. The SFP tells me that the amount outstanding under this second pillar is EUR 286 million as at 31 May 2018. With regard to the investment rules, the SFP tells me that investments are made almost exclusively in OLO (ten-year bonds).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u167	Madam President, I also had questions about the conditions that the purchaser of this pension fund should meet. Have they been fixed? Or does your non-response mean that there are none?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u168	The Management Committee is in the process of preparing them. That's pretty normal. I did not intervene authoritatively in this case. I simply warned and fortunately, I think, for the affiliates. It is the National Bank which is responsible for the control and it is the Bank which carried out the control. It is therefore she who will, with the SFP, pilot the transfer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u169	I hear your point of view. I'm not surprised enough. For the future, it seems to me useful, given the nature of the employers who called on the ONP, since it is a second "public" pillar, to try to find a pension fund that is approaching the philosophy applied by the National Pension Office at the time, which became the Federal Service, with some caution, a certain attention to invest rather in public tools such as the OLOs rather than to choose a more speculative, perhaps less dangerous path in connection with the internal economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u170	Oh, my God! I'm sorry, but rules exist and they obviously have to be respected. The rules are dictated by the supervisory bodies. It is not the Minister of Pensions who introduces the rules of control. The National Bank is responsible for group insurance and the FSMA is responsible for pension funds. The second pillar of insurance is therefore carried out with the authorizations and under the supervision of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u171	Minister, I think I have said absolutely nothing contradictory to what you recall. There is room in our financial system and in our pension system for insurance organizations that practice differently, as there are banks that make the choice to invest more in our country, in tools related to the transition of our economy. In my view, it would be desirable for the pension portfolio of the SFP to move towards such insurers in the future. Another possible avenue would have been to strengthen the management capacity of the Federal Service in a second pillar. If the finding was that he was not doing it optimally, there were two possibilities. Either get rid of it – it is the choice that has been made – or strengthen its management capacity, even if we believe that this competence does not fall within its primary occupation, which is your point of view. For example, municipalities would more easily pass a second pillar, a first pillar bis managed in the interests of prudence and investment in the internal economy. This is the meaning given by the choices made by the ten employers mentioned. I hope that we will find a serious insurer and that we can strengthen the conditions applicable to these pension funds. But this question is for the Minister of Finance rather than the Minister of Pensions. In the area of pension funds, we are on top of both.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u172	In this case, it is not a pension fund, but an insurance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u173	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u174	My reply is already too long and the president calls me to order.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u175	Minister, some pensioners lose up to 50% of their supplementary pension when taking up early retirement or retirement pension. They are not aware that the payment of the supplementary pension has been linked to the statutory retirement pension since 2016 and that it is automatically paid at that time, regardless of the retirement age specified in the supplementary pension plan. Moreover, due to a lack of information from the government, the parties concerned do not realise that there is more delay in taking early retirement. The supplementary pension managers cannot warn them either, as they do not know that they would retire early. On 13 March, you replied to questions from Mr Becq and myself that you were working with the Federal Pension Service on a communication on this matter. This would be communicated to employees on each pension application, on the notification and on mypension.be. The employee would be advised to contact his pension institution. As far as I know, but I may be mistaken, Minister, that has not yet happened. I'd like to hear how far you and the F.P.D. stand with the promised modification of the information for the pre-retirement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u176	I'm currently completing the content of the communication with the FPD. Communication is almost ready. It will soon appear on the site.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic932x.u177	Thank you, Minister, but you said that in March. I hope it will happen soon now, because for some people it is a real loss.
