ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, He died on 24 May in Kapellen Jacques Buchmann, a former member of the Chamber. He was 86. After high school, Buchmann joined his father Arthur's spectacle factory. He turned out to be a forward-looking manager and brilliant businessman, who with Buchmann Optical Industries created hundreds of jobs in the north of the province of Antwerp. In 1971, Jacky Buchmann was elected city council member for the PVV in Kapellen, his birth village, where he also became mayor in March 1983. Due to the integration, on his initiative, of a number of Ekerse neighbourhoods, Kapellen became a medium-sized municipality which he thoroughly modernised over the next two decades. Without ever losing sight of the health of finances, Buchmann made "his" Chapels a vibrant, sporty, green and very prosperous municipality. Meanwhile, Jacky Buchmann had also taken the step towards national politics. From March 1974 to April 1977 and from December 1978 to October 1985, he sat as PVV MP in the House of Representatives. With his experience as an entrepreneur, he was particularly active in the Economic Affairs, Employment and Labour, Middle Classes and Foreign Trade committees. In the midst of the economic crisis of the seventies and eighties, it was particularly concerned with the fight against inflation and unemployment and the question of the competitiveness of enterprises. As a Member of Parliament, he was also interested in more social topics such as the promotion of health and safety at work and the introduction of full social status for paid athletes. In 1981, Jacky Buchmann became Minister of Housing in the first Flemish government of Gaston Geens. From 1985 to 1988 he was Minister of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises in the governments of Martens VI and Martens VII. After the elections of October 1985, Jacky Buchmann left the Chamber for the Senate and served as Vice-President from 1992 to 1995. Jacky Buchmann, who remained the mayor of Kapellen until the end of 2000, demonstrated his unconditional social commitment by remaining president of the CPAS during the next parliamentary term. His resignation as a communal councillor in 2009 marked the end of his active political life, which did not prevent him from providing, until the end, help and advice to his fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Jacky Buchmann was, in the words of his successor as mayor of Kapellen, our colleague Dirk Van Mechelen, a liberal humanist, who had a listening ear and managed to overcome contradictions until the last moment. We lose in him a driven politician, an excellent entrepreneur and above all a heartfelt man. On behalf of the Chamber, I expressed our sincere condolences to his wife Isabelle and his family, whom I greet in our gallery.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government wishes to join the commemoration of Jacky Buchmann, former member of the Chamber, Vice-President of the Senate and Minister in the Gaston Geens government and in the Martens government. Jacky Buchmann began his professional career when he took over the family business from his father. This entrepreneurial spirit has always been the guiding principle of his political career. He transformed the company into an internationally renowned company, but his successful business career was not an end point. In 1970, Jacky Buchmann decided to put his experience at the service of politics. He believed that he could turn his ideals into reality. As a member of the PVV, he was first elected to the Kapellen City Council in 1971, where he became mayor a few years later. In his hometown he was glad to be seen, especially for his social commitment. A liberal at heart, his president calls him that. His colleagues praised his talent for mediation and always seeking a compromise. Jacky Buchmann was also respected in the world of equestrian sport, where he became chairman of the Royal Belgian Ridersport Federation. His federation praises him for turning the equestrian sport from an elitist event into a folk festival. Jacky Buchmann was a liberal humanist. He saw economic development as an instrument for social emancipation for everyone. With his death, the liberal family loses one of its monuments. On behalf of the government, I would like to express our condolences to his family, his friends and many colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we observe a few moments of silence in memory of our late colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u5	Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business to raise two points, which can obviously be dealt with separately. This is first of all point 9 on the agenda, which concerns the draft law on economic recovery and the strengthening of social cohesion, as drafted (No. 2839). I would like to inform you that our group has tabled a number of amendments at the end of the work in the concertation committee, but also because of the substantive issues raised by this dossier. We therefore call for referral to the Council of State so that it can, within a sufficient period of time, take a decision on these substantive amendments and give a detailed and detailed opinion, as it normally does. Therefore, Mr President, I would ask you to take this request for referral to the Council of State into consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u6	Mr. Laaouej, I take note of that. Having said that, in view of the agenda, I suggest that we talk about it at another time. In any case, I have no problem with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u7	Mr. President, we could do it now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u8	Mr President, the Ecolo-Groen Group has also tabled some 15 amendments to this text. These are substantive amendments resulting from the discussions that we have been able to hold for many months on this text. In addition, they take into account the consultation with representatives of the COCOF Parliament. On that occasion, difficulties were identified for some sectors. These difficulties had already been identified in the hearings held at the beginning of the analysis of this text, without, unfortunately, the majority acting to correct its text. We also ask that these amendments be the subject of an opinion to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u9	Mr President, we are tabling amendments for referral to the Council of State. As you know, this project poses both serious problems of unfair competition for SMEs and for the self-employed, and major problems for the non-market sector which depends on the federated entities. While there could have been positive progress in consultation with the federated entities, unfortunately we have not seen any constructive discussions on this text. Beyond sending to the Council of State, we call for a constructive resumption of work. For some sectors, this might be interesting, but for a whole range of others, unfair competition and harming the non-market sector are totally unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u10	Mr President, our group also regrets that this majority has not taken advantage of the opportunity to amend this law in the context of the conflict of interests. Ten civil society organisations have warned of the dangers of this draft, which is a problem for both volunteers and competition. UNIZO even fears that employees will become competitors of their own employers. They are threatening to go to the Constitutional Court. The majority had a year to make adjustments. Today, however, the same draft is being presented again without any adjustments. I hear the Minister declare that she will come forward with a recovery bill. Well, we have taken the time to table amendments. We ask for the opinion of the Council of State. We also call on the majority to propose at the same time the adjustments that we want to make in the Chamber so that everyone knows what we are voting on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, given the limited time available to us for the first subject in the oral questions in particular, I propose that we vote on this after the oral questions. I assume that 50 members support the amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u12	Mr President, our group takes note of yet another delay manoeuvre by the opposition, but do not worry: the law will eventually be passed. It's gonna happen soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u13	I'll get the advice. Case closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u14	Mr President, we have tabled a number of topical questions on Mr Franken's statements. One of them is addressed to the Prime Minister, which will not surprise anyone. The second is addressed to Mr Franken himself. As I go through the document that was sent to us, I note that the Prime Minister will answer all the questions. I must tell you, Mr. Chair, that we do not understand the choice that has been made to ask the Prime Minister to answer all the questions. Indeed, we would also like to hear Mr Franken. He's here. There is no reason why he should not answer the question addressed to him. I would point out that, in the past, on certain subjects in which several ministers were involved, all the ministers concerned responded. I would therefore not understand that this is not the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u15	Mr President, I had addressed a question to the Secretary of State on the same subject. I see he's here. I heard that the Prime Minister would not allow Parliament to question the Secretary of State. Is that so? He's here and we can't question him? If that is the case, it is extremely worrying for parliamentary democracy. His role is damaged by the fact that he cannot be questioned. This Secretary of State represents us abroad, works on social networks and gives interviews, but here in Parliament he does not have the opportunity to respond to MPs. This is a first for me: we cannot question a minister or a secretary of state, within the framework of his competence, when he is present, which is more important. It is the Prime Minister who shakes his agenda so that he can respond to his place! I think he has to answer us, Mr. President. If that is not the case, I would ask that in the future he no longer speak abroad, that he no longer represent the government abroad, since we no longer have the opportunity to exercise parliamentary control over his remarks or the policy he intends to defend abroad. Let him no longer speak as a member of the government outside this chamber!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u16	Mr President, I would like to move on to the order of business. I'm just finding it's never good. I have heard repeatedly here that if the government internally states that the Minister or a State Secretary is responding, the opposition asks that the Prime Minister should reply. Today, the Prime Minister in our midst is in the presence of the Secretary of State. Now the opposition believes that the Secretary of State should reply. I would like to remind you of a good saying and a steady use. It's the government that internally decides who answers. The government is represented. The Prime Minister has made the effort to come here, although he has an international obligation. He insisted on a starting time of 13:30. I suggest we start the round of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u17	Colleagues, it is true that the Prime Minister will reply. It connects the entire government, which, as you know, is one and indivisible. That means all the ministers and all the secretaries of state. The distinction between questions about the position of the government and questions about the results of the Luxembourg Summit is, of course, somewhat artificial. I therefore propose that we proceed immediately to the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u18	I have sent you all an e-mail stating that speaking time must be strictly respected this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u19	Prime Minister, week after week, we are obliged to question you about the statements of the first partner party of your majority government. It would be tiresome if the comments were not more and more enormous and if the illegality of the proposals made by your Secretary of State concerning access to European territory were not added to the rudeness of the statement! I believe that yesterday, Mr Franken showed once again that he was joining the camp of the populists and the far right, who are only subterfuge, in the face of the arguments of the law, only to despise the institutions, and in particular your authority, Prime Minister. Speaking in this way of the institutions of the rue de la Loi and of the Schuman roundabout, it is much more than the question of democracy, it is the question of the authority which is attached to the institutions in that they are necessary in a system such as ours. Prime Minister, that is what you are allowing us to allow this Secretary of State to speak insultingly. I don't know how far you're going to accept your function being lowered. At the same time, on the European scene, a Secretary of State does not come to make proposals which are known to be contrary to one of the most essential foundations of the Union of Europe, namely the European Convention on Human Rights. And the case law of the European Court of Human Rights is part of this foundation to be preserved and protected. We know that all populists in Europe begin their attacks on Europe by questioning the authority attached to the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. Mr Prime Minister, the time has come either to make it clear that Mr Franken is disavowed or to stand with these European governments that no longer protect Europe's achievements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, the Secretary of State is openly whistling back, and the Left opposition is once again ready to pretend that the Secretary of State is pursuing an inhumane policy on the grounds of a few statements. I do not understand why you can all be so concerned about a few words from Mr Francken. He's right in what he's saying, but anyone who's looking at the real figures, you'll find them in our recently launched immigration app, 'cause the tough words and the bright tweets are in stark contrast to the policy that's being pursued in practice. By the way, the same day the Secretary of State announced that he didn't mean to do it at all. If even the words are too far-reaching, then the deeds will certainly not follow. Of course, we need this immigration stop for illegal immigrants. Of course we need a pushback policy. The fact that Mr Francken is now suddenly in favour of a pushback policy would almost make us forget that his party colleague, Minister Vandeput, still sent naval ships to the Mediterranean to do the opposite, to facilitate immigration rather than stop them. There was also good news yesterday, Prime Minister. It was confirmed that Austria, Denmark and a number of other countries are working on a plan to put an end to asylum shopping, to monitor Europe's external borders and to strengthen the border guard. Will you contact the Austrian Government to cooperate in this? Will you, together with them, make it a priority to stop illegal immigration into Europe? Do you support the Austrian Chancellor when he asks for early reinforcement and a clear political mandate for Frontex? Or is it, as always, back to words? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u21	Prime Minister, how long are you going to get stuck in the filthy slope of the far right speeches and attitudes of Theo Franken? Until when will you maintain an extreme right-wing element in your government? The day after he took his oath as minister of your government, he took part in the anniversary of a former Nazi collaborator. This first spit in the face of our democracy was already revealing its contempt for our institutions. Should I remind you that he agreed with the statement that our citizens of Moroccan, Algerian or African origin had less added value? Do I have to recall that he had fun with an animation in which an African was transported like cattle? Should I recall his insults and his denigration against the Médecins sans frontières organization, accused of trafficking in human beings? Do I have to recall that he supported his party president who, in response to the pain of the parents of little Mawda, addressed to them infamous words, making them responsible for the death of their child? On this list, both serious and incomplete, there are now explicit threats against university rectors and their freedom of expression. As if that were not enough, he now asserts that the European Convention on Human Rights, the foundation of our civilization, is at the bottom only a piece of paper, which we can throw in the trash like a vulgar rubbish Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which urges states not to return human beings to their homes - Prime Minister, human beings! - if they are threatened with abuse or torture. But this convention does what we are or what we should be: democrats. Repelled back to the sea, these people fled wars and miseries. This is what he dared to propose to Europe, probably inspired by the shift to the far right of Italy. For the past four years, the political impunity that he enjoys in your government, mocking your so-called redundancies, has strengthened him. His ignoble ideas and attitudes have flourished on the ground of your renunciation. Prime Minister, you are now accountable and responsible for the weakening of our democracy. Today we need a response that matches your democratic commitments. Does Theo Francken still have, yes or no, its place in your government? That is the question we are asking you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, Theo Francken wants a pushback of the boats with refugees on the Mediterranean, away from Europe. He does not consider Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights to be so important, whereas you, Prime Minister, said in this Chamber not so long ago that Article 3 is a sacred principle for you. What is it now? Know that this is also about war refugees. Getting asylum is not a basic right, but it is an asylum application. War refugees must be able to be protected, including in Europe. As several people say, Europe has indeed failed. There is too little solidarity, countries such as Greece and Italy are no longer able to cope alone and there is too little spread within the European Union. However, there is an alternative that is both human and realistic. No open borders, surveillance of external borders, but hotspots at the external borders of the European Union where people can go when they need protection and where they can apply for asylum. Again, getting asylum is not a basic right, but it is an asylum application. The N-VA is gradually crossing all possible moral boundaries. War refugees must also be able to be protected in Europe. It is precisely the history of our European continent that should teach us this clearly. Which side will you be on, Minister? On the part of Lega Nord, of the Eastern European countries, of the right-wing populist forces in the European Union? Or do you still believe in human rights and international law? Those are also standards and values, which are even our standards and values that policy should guide. Green doesn't want to throw those standards and values overboard. The choice is clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u23	Mr Prime Minister, your Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration made some harsh but realistic remarks at the end of a meeting of the European Union. If the opposition offends, this is not the case with the People's Party. Nor does a large majority of citizens. All you have to do is listen to the people. In recent years, illegal migration, which everyone agrees to call "migration crisis", has been a problem for us. This is indeed a crisis which, by definition, risks creating chaos and we are almost there. This is the European Union which has not taken any action except to negotiate with dictator Erdogan. Frontex is still no more efficient and even plays the role of rescuer at sea. Europe has never been so divided: the North against the South and the East against the West. Five hundred million Europeans are affected by this crisis that no one can solve. The Italians and the Greeks were abandoned to their sad fate. But let's go back to the Secretary of State's statement. I quote: "We must find a way to circumvent Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights". In fact, I understand that it means that we must go back to the basic text and not to incorrect jurisprudence. This article was followed to the letter for decades until European judges, without democratic legitimacy and very marked on the left, subverted it in 1989 to prevent the expulsion of illegal immigrants and replaced national parliaments purely and simply by wanting to apply preventive justice. This article becomes a political tool to impose this progressive and aberrant ideology, which has the consequence of creating an air appeal, increasing drowning in the Mediterranean and preventing states from exercising their sovereignty. Until 2012, no one was bothering with push backs. This method is obviously not the solution but can play a catalytic role in encouraging the European Union to adopt a true migration policy. We have been saying to the People's Party for years that camps must be set up outside the borders of the European Union and that it is from these areas that we must welcome the real refugees fleeing abuses or war. This would put an end to smugglers' mafias, enhance the security of real refugees and cut air calls.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u24	I'm sorry, sir. Your speech ends here. I warned you. The time allowed to each speaker is only two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u25	Mr President, I rarely exceed my speaking time, while other colleagues have expressed themselves joyfully beyond the two minutes allotted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u26	Thank you, Mr. Carcaci.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u27	Prime Minister, "No one shall be subjected to torture or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment". This is Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, an article you said last December that it is a sacred principle. A member of your government, Secretary of State Franken, has just said: "We must be able to send the boats back. We must find a way to circumvent Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights." What does this statement mean? This means that we can violate a convention that sets out fundamental rights, human rights. I would remind the N-VA that it receives a public allocation because, theoretically, it approved this Convention. This statement by Theo Francken means that we can push back and send refugees back to dictatorships. This means that humanity stops at the borders of Europe. Beyond these borders, they are no longer humans, it's something else! On the other hand, our bombs have no borders because we remember that the same Franken is a hot supporter of intervention in Libya. Prime Minister, my questions are simple. Did Secretary of State Franken speak on behalf of Belgium? Are you sure he's saying something? Are you personally in favour of compliance with the Geneva Convention? Are you for or against push back?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, 'no one may be subjected to torture or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment'. That is the content of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, the article on which you say it is an untouchable principle for you. However, that is also the article that your Secretary of State said it would be better to avoid. A member of the government who ignores human rights calls into question the rule of law. First with words, later perhaps with deeds. Prime Minister, is the prohibition of torture still an untouchable principle for you and your government? Has your Secretary of State, acting on behalf of the Council of the European Union, given his personal position rather than the government's position? So not on Twitter, not on Facebook, not on a blog, but on a Council of the European Union, representing Belgium. If that's the case, then you have a problem. Prime Minister, after the many statements made by the Deputy Prime Minister, your statement and the various statements made by the Secretary of State, I would like to know what the government's official position is. Do you still trust your Secretary of State or are you going to the Council of the European Union when it comes to migration?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u29	Prime Minister, I am sorry that you have to play your Secretary of State's lawyer on a regular basis. Because he has committed, again, in the last 48 hours, a fivefold fault! He sabotaged a European meeting at a time when it was not over and felt that it was a failure. He burned down, once again, the opinion. He has broken our society when he claims to be trying to save the European Union. He sat down on a founding text for the European Union: the European Convention on Human Rights. This is our fundamental charter. That is what defines our rights, our freedoms, our humanism. Because it is a humanist project, the European project! He used an anonymous language on social media. A charretier language, a rude language. It is the language of the extreme right, indeed, and that of the populists, in general, when they have no arguments! And then, to top it all off, he insults your government – because everyone knows that when we talk about the "rue of the law", we first and foremost designate the Prime Minister but also the whole of the institutions. I'd say it's almost the "scum of the days" of a dishonored government! I ask you, Prime Minister, to tackle this fundamental issue of migration effectively. What is at stake is the identity bursts that we see appearing in Europe, here and there. It is to be able to respond with ambitious, reformative policies that do not endanger four fundamental principles. Firstly, Europe is the homeland of rights and freedoms. That is what underpins the European project! Secondly, we must be able to control our external borders, not the internal borders of the European Union. Thirdly, we must stop clarifying opinions. There must be genuine European solidarity on these issues. Fourthly, we must tackle in a much more ambitious way what creates migration. We are talking a lot about Tunisia these days, but this government has refused that Tunisia should be one of the partner countries of the Cooperation when it was possible, when it was indispensable!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u30	Prime Minister, you can try to confiscate the right of Parliament to ask questions to a member of the government. So here we are! Of which act! You will not confiscate us, you will not confiscate me from sharing my concerns and questions in this assembly with a member of your government. I would therefore like to address the question as I prepared it for Mr Franken. After an informal meeting of European Ministers of the Interior, you said: "Push back was practiced in Europe before it was banned by the European Court of Human Rights in 2012. It is necessary to be able to return vessels, to find a way of circumventing Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, and the case law must adapt to it." That's what you're talking about. "Jurisprudence must adapt to it." So on June 5, 2018, we learn that Belgium has clearly joined the Orbán, Salvini and other extremes of Europe. Europe is slipping up. The European Commission is strangled. The Commissioner makes it clear that push backs are illegal. In the international press, we are still being pointed at. Belgium also has Salvini and Orbán in its government. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, it is only in the government and in the Belgian majority that one does not strangle one another. I'm going on. There were the statements in the corridors relayed by the press and then your Twitter account where you call on your European friends to join you in the procedure which, before the European Court of Human Rights, opposes Belgium to the Syrian family of Aleppo who has been denied humanitarian visas. Either you don't know how to hold back, or you provoke again yesterday, when you leave "the vaseline" and "the hypocrisy of the rue de la Loi", the rue de la Loi, ladies and gentlemen, the centre of Belgian politics! You thus despise our institutions, your colleagues and the office of Prime Minister. Did you support the idea of push back, yes or no? How did your colleagues react to your proposals? Have you had any reverence from the Commission? Have you been summoned by the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u31	First of all, Prime Minister, I would like to talk to you about the deontology of a minister. I still have the idea of a number of directives in this respect. I would like to call on you, Prime Minister, to hold on to that. Ministers always speak on behalf of the government; they never speak in their personal name. I would then like to take a look at the communication of the past few days of your Secretary of State for Migration and Asylum. The pushbacks, I remember John Crombez once was for that. That doesn't exactly strengthen my confidence. Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights had to be bypassed. Afterwards, a few hours later, it had to be "reoriented." For you and for me, Article 3 is a sacred principle. Next step: "The judges will have to follow," your Secretary of State said. This does not show much respect for the independent judiciary. According to him, the end of the European Union was imminent. In five years' time, the Secretary of State said, there will be no union. Afterwards, that's all a little re-edited. My question to you, Prime Minister, is whether all this happened on behalf of the government. What was the Secretary of State's mandate? Let me make it very clear to you: he certainly has not spoken in my name. Is that all due to electoral fever, because the communication line of the N-VA, of the N-VA ministers, is getting a little thin? She's actually gonna be shiny. Is there a limit at all? In substance, Prime Minister, I believe that Belgium should use its strength as a bridge builder to achieve a European consensus on migration. Your Secretary of State must use his diplomatic talents, and I say 'diplomatic talents', to persuade countries such as Austria and Hungary to increase European solidarity, not by proclaiming the end of the EU outside the meeting, but by building Europe in the JAI itself. By the way, what exactly did he say at the JAI meeting? Again, what was his mandate? I expect a clear answer to these questions, Prime Minister. All this will not happen with the end of Europe, ladies and gentlemen. The end of Belgium has been predicted countless times in nationalist circles. Wishful thinking of self-fulfilling prophecy? I'll leave you to your choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at Belgian level, this government has already done a lot, a lot on asylum matters, a lot on the reception and reception capacity of war refugees, a lot on the issue of humanitarian visas. At European level, our Government has always advocated for a balance of solidarity and responsibility between the Member States. The proof of this is the involvement of Belgium in resettlement and relocation projects, the proof of this is the aid to the countries bordering Syria, the proof is the humanitarian aid through cooperation and that of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, our country applies the law in compliance with international conventions and takes responsibility at European level. For MR, there is no credible alternative to what has been done for three years. We must fight illegal immigration. We must fight against smugglers. We must strengthen Europe's external borders. It is also necessary to conclude resettlement agreements with third countries and to further encourage reception in order to undermine the deadly business of smugglers and avoid the tragedies we are witnessing in the Mediterranean. We must help third countries in the management of migration and borders, but also in their economic development. A lax policy based on regularisation is not the solution, moreover, more than a policy of open borders or free borders. Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the migration issue is complex and difficult. These are societal issues that affect and challenge our social cohesion. Prime Minister, can you remind us of Belgium's official position on the reform of the Dublin Convention? How do you view the evolution of the discussions in the European Council? What initiatives will your government defend or take to further enrich the fight against illegal immigration and smugglers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u33	Prime Minister, on 21 December, in this House, you stated that "Article 3 is a sacred principle". The day before yesterday, in the Council of European Ministers, your Secretary of State committed the whole of Belgium to supporting a completely crazy idea: circumventing Article 3. What is this article about? It prohibits the return of a person who treads European soil to a country where he or she could be subjected to torture or inhuman and degrading treatment; that is, the minimum minimorum that a democracy can offer to someone who is present on its territory. The worst is that the Secretary of State added yesterday, since he said that "the European Convention on Human Rights is, in part, a text of another era". So it is not, Prime Minister, a communication error, a vocabulary problem. Mr Franken wanted to destroy the text drawn up in the 1950s, which was intended to prevent the horrors committed in the 1940s from reoccurring in Europe. His point of view is clear, clear! This position places our country in the extreme camp, alongside Hungary, Italy and Austria. The international press has also reported this. Prime Minister, have you changed your mind about section 3? How long are you going to tolerate these positions that undermine Belgium's image?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u34	Prime Minister, your Secretary of State once said something about pushbacks and circumventing Article 3. The scenario is then classic You come to Parliament, the French-speaking opposition goes crazy, the French-speaking media go crazy and, when it comes to Flemings, every time with Le Vif in the lead. That is, of course, a pity for you, Prime Minister, because you seem to be isolated in French-speaking Belgium. The well-thinking elite turns against you. You know them of course: l'élite bien pensante et politiciquement correct. I don't have to tell you who that is. However, one thing would be worse than that, Prime Minister, namely that you should be asked questions about the government's real asylum policy. To defend you against the French-speaking opposition, you say that this opposition wants an open border policy, but are Belgium's borders not open? Is Belgium not a borderless country? The opposition should actually support you. The influx is seven percent higher than under Di Rupo, so you're actually doing better than Elio and the opposition should actually support you. What about the rest of your migration policy? Eighty percent of the expulsion orders are not executed, the migrants of the North Station were driven out of the station and are now 200 metres away. You moved the problem, but you didn't solve it. Apparently, the EU cannot control the external borders and that EU, you are, because you also have a seat on the European Councils of Ministers. When it comes to migration, Mr Francken is there. What is Mr Francken doing now? He is now in opposition to your government and to his own policies. He says you're bad at it. That's right. He says it has to be different, and that's right. He even plans to write a book about the Australian model. At the same time, he applies Mother Theresa's model. Anyway, it's good that the light has been turned on at Theo Francken. Is the light with you and with other members of the government also dawning? What do you think about pushbacks? I'll give you my opinion on that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u35	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, newcomers expect this majority, but undoubtedly also the vast majority of this assembly, to integrate, together with their families, and to participate actively in our country. This majority has the ambition to present a newcomer statement to them. I quote, Prime Minister: "I declare this. This country respects human rights as laid down in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Belgium also endorsed the European Convention on Human Rights, which ensures that human rights are enforceable. I will respect the law of this country and respect the democratic principles of this country." Well, Prime Minister, if we expect newcomers to do so, then we expect all Belgians and certainly your government members to do so. Colleagues, it is easy to set aside those values and rights. It is much harder to find solutions, but it is also difficult, Prime Minister. For our group, the solutions are a stronger Europe and better protection of the external borders, but if someone is entitled to asylum, he or she must be able to get it in our country. Then we expect him or her to integrate, learn the language and seek work. Those who do not have that right will have to be determined according to the rules of international law. That is a necessary conclusion, including a humane asylum policy. However, we always have one thing in mind, ladies and gentlemen: refugees, war refugees or not, are people and they deserve respect. Prime Minister, do you share the position of our group and is that also the position of your government? Is that a position expressed in the Council of the European Union? If not, how will you avoid that in the future? At the end of this month there will be an important meeting of the European Heads of Government, on which you will express the position of this government on behalf of our country and the entire government. What position will you adopt in the European Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u36	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am not likely to receive applause from the opposition, but I am not working towards that. They're gonna ask for another discharge. It happens almost every week. Last week, moreover, we were very loyal in this respect as a government partner. [[Applause and noise]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u37	Carry on, Mr De Roover. Mr De Roover has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u38	Theo Francken said migration policy is not working. Yesterday he received the company of Angela Merkel, the ultra-right-wing politician from Germany, perhaps. We have a vision and we are looking for solutions. Theo Francken wants to include that in the policy. That is, of course, the big difference with the left, where all the energy is put into the fight against an effective policy, with a false presentation of facts giving the impression that respect for human rights, which we are absolutely in favour of, automatically leads to a de facto open border policy, and vice versa, which would automatically damage human rights if anyone opposed to a de facto open border policy. One is a lie as big as the other. Ladies and gentlemen, safe borders, safe external borders, that is actually a fundamental right. Only within these secure and guaranteed external borders can an ECHR be guaranteed in all its meanings. Theo Francken is not the only one in Europe who thinks. President Macron said in August 2017 that he was in favour of installing safe zones in Africa. In December 2016, Dutch Prime Minister Rutte felt that people who were picked up in the Mediterranean should be sent back to Africa and that agreements should be made with Egypt and Morocco. In February 2016, SPD leader Uppermann even on the left-hand side thought people said that refugees on the Mediterranean should be sent back to North Africa. Finally, we see plans for large-scale safe reception areas in Austria, Denmark and the Netherlands. Prime Minister, will you side with those who are looking for a humane and at the same time controlled European border policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago a hundred more migrants lost their lives in the Mediterranean Sea. Europe has been facing a complex challenge in recent years. It calls for responsibilities, in line with the values we have in this European project which brings us together. For more than three years now, Europe has been trying to find solutions in the context of the reform of the Dublin agreements, without success. Unsuccessful. What is the reality of the past few days? There's been a meeting of the JHA. It was not a decision-making meeting, but it was a meeting to understand the different positions of one and the other. I share Mr Patrick Dewael's statement. The task of a member of the government is to loyally defend the government's views. I repeat this, also for our ambassador to Coreper, who defended Belgium's official position on the Dublin agreements this morning. This means, therefore, that we will continue to assume our responsibility in order to make possible compromises, decisions on migration and we will defend our views on a number of elements. We do believe that solidarity and responsibility must be combined. These two aspects go hand in hand. This is the meaning of the ongoing negotiations on the Dublin Agreements, which, moreover, distinguish various situations – few have mentioned this – in the event of a crisis, in the event of an acute crisis or of a normal situation. These are the concrete subjects on which we are trying to find a number of agreements at European level. An additional point. There's no doubt about it. I want to repeat that; Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights is a sacred principle. The European Convention on Human Rights, international regulations are and will be respected by Belgium. [[Applause]] And we will also support efforts towards better European harmonisation in the implementation of European and international conventions. Everyone here is well aware that there is now a major issue in this regard. We were confronted with it a few months ago – I am not afraid to repeat it – in very harsh and intense polemics in this assembly, at the end of the situation in Sudan. And we have instructed the Secretary of State, together with the European Commission, to examine how progress can be made in order to harmonise the implementation of Article 3 in this type of situation. This shows that we are consistent. We are consistent on the substance of the matter. What matters to me and the government is the future. I want to be very clear on that point. Next week I will be personally present in Paris and Berlin to discuss migration with our partners, and to see what concrete European solutions are possible in the short term. Secondly, there is an additional European summit at the end of June. I believe that the issue of migration, given the persistent deadlock in the JHA Council over the past three years, must be raised at the level of Heads of State and Government. That will be my plea, so that we can give political impetus to progress on the subject. I will defend three important principles on behalf of the government and after further consultations in preparation for the next European Summit, at the end of June 2018. Principle 1 is extremely important to us. It is about the protection and security of borders. No laxity, no naivety! Europe needs secure, controlled borders. We are consistent. There are debates on Europe's multi-annual prospects. The European Commission's proposals are to increase from 12 billion to more than 30 billion euros and to have 10 000 agents in the coming years for Frontex. I will plead, within the government and at European level, for additional resources to be granted to ensure effective border security. And so bad for those here who don't want controlled and secure borders! A second important point is the Dublin agreements. It remains our ambition to find a solution to this problem, although it will be difficult and complex because some countries are resisting it. That is why more political commitment is needed at the highest level. I'll make a plea in that sense. I share, in principle, the reasoning whereby, for the three possible situations, a different approach would always be possible to reach an agreement, on the basis of solidarity and responsibility. A third important point is cooperation with third countries. There are differences of opinion and, in my view, Europe must cooperate better with third countries in the future. However, this must be done in clear terms. If we look at the possibility of negotiations with third States, we will have this debate within the government, and certainly also within Parliament. I note, for example, that the agreements with Turkey, which have been denounced, have led to a division by ten of the number of deaths in the Aegean. That's the reality! These are the consequences. As far as the dignity of people is concerned, this subject seems important to me. If we go in this direction, we will have to deal with all the legal, political, and possibly acceptable modalities. This is obviously a path to be opened with caution, with caution. I want to consider it that way. I'll make it up to you. Migration and asylum are important, serious issues. Behind figures and statistics, there are human realities. There are people, women, men, children. I listened carefully to the representatives of the opposition. I have not heard any of them propose an alternative to the approach we advocate and implement!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u40	Prime Minister, it is not the opposition that must be said, especially when two group leaders from the majority gave the important signal of the start of the democratic rally against the populist extremists and the far right. It is indeed time, in Europe, for democrats to come together in a decomplex way against those who believe they hold the top of the floor. Prime Minister, you see, it is not by giving the opposition intentions that it does not have that you will, by pirouette, defend those who gangrene your majority and our credibility in Europe! We asked you if you would agree with your Secretary of State's proposal to undermine the European Convention. This is the proposal of your majority, your Secretary of State responsible for this responsibility. Today, you wanted to make a difference. But there will be no worse hypocrisy on your part than to make believe that you are leading a policy when you continue to close your eyes to the excesses of your Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u41	Minister, despite your decibels, it is clear that Belgian asylum and migration policy will not change anything. The Dublin agreements are even superfluous, if an immigration stop is made, if we are going to take care of people outside the European Union, which Austria and Denmark are working on today. Mr Dewael, Mr De Vriendt, what right is there to point the finger at these countries? Fortunately for Europe, there are countries such as Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, which at least oppose the insane distribution quotas. Fortunately for Europe, at least there are countries such as Denmark, Austria and Italy, which do what the population demands. It is not possible to say that about the government. I am counting on the promises of a Salvini in Italy and the trend in which Austria is taking the lead will be far more than the honking, the tattooing and the tweeting that we are just here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u42	Prime Minister, on June 7, 2018, you made a choice, that of giving up being part of the camp of those who fight the speeches and attitudes of the far right. Theo Francken, your Secretary of State, with the support of his party, spread the venom of hatred and resentment with electoral aims. Too often you said, "It's a matter of communication, a matter of form." But know, Prime Minister, that with Theo Francken, the form is the bottom! A putrid bottom that goes up to the surface. Theo Francken wants to return to the sea of human beings! What needs to be repressed, Prime Minister, is the filthy ideas of the far right. That is what needs to be repressed, Prime Minister! You missed an appointment with democracy and democracy will remember when the time comes!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u43	Prime Minister, we respect the statements made by Mr Dewael and Mr Verherstraeten. We agree with that. You are gradually getting a subscription to the office here, every time Mr Francken goes off the hook. Apparently, it doesn't make much of an impression. Colleagues, that is not the man who can promote a balanced migration policy. Mr Prime Minister, you are aware of that yourself. You need an ambassador to correct the missteps of the Secretary of State and you take over migration policy at European level. Not Article 3 is being bypassed here, but Theo Francken himself. He can still tweet, but the breach of trust in the government is total. Nobody advocates open borders; everyone here has advocated compliance with international law, except for one group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u44	Prime Minister, why, when we disagree with a different position, are we called extremists or populists? This would put an end to smugglers' mafias, enhance the security of real refugees and cut the air call. Finally, the Secretary of State did not say anything else, it seems to me. It is inconceivable to open our national borders without closing Europe's external borders. Acting otherwise is irresponsible because illegal immigration has a cost that our taxpayers must bear and they are no longer inclined to do so. It is urgent to provoke an electroshock at the level of the European Union, failing to see our democracies close down gradually one after the other. According to a poll published some time ago by La Dernière Heure, one in three Belgians feels foreign in their country and 67% of Belgians do not want illegal migration!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u45	Prime Minister, I have asked you three simple questions, which colleagues have also taken up. You haven't answered any of them. Did Theo Francken speak on behalf of Belgium? You did not answer this simple but essential question! Are you sure he's saying something? You didn't answer! Are you for or against pushbacks? You didn't answer! These are three essential questions that you do not answer. You'd rather send the ball back to the opposition than give us your government's position. The point is that, since you do not dare to remove the dossier from the Secretary of State, you say that this should be brought up to the level of European Heads of State and Government. You don't dare to remove his file! Behind this, I think there is a political strategy that surfs on racism and the N-VA is a specialist of it. Indeed, challenging the European austerity treaties is impossible, but questioning a European human rights convention becomes possible. To hide the impoverishment of the people for the benefit of the richest, the N-VA is very strong, as well as to surf racism in this context. Prime Minister, I wonder if you yourself are not equally tempted by this N-VA strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u46	Mr President, Prime Minister, both the majority and the opposition have asked here on behalf of whom the Secretary of State has spoken. You did not answer that question. All you have said is that you will send the ambassador as an inspector and that you will enter into the discussion yourself. On the second part of your answer, I would like to repeat that I would be happy to discuss it here. However, it is Question Time now. We have two minutes to ask a question. So you cannot expect us to be able to put forward complete alternative proposals during those two minutes. I can give you a copy of our proposal right away. It's on paper. That's no problem at all. It is windowdressing to begin with, to discuss the open borders and then to put the opposition in the corner. It is not fair for you, a liberal Prime Minister, to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u47	Prime Minister, I get it! It is therefore now our ambassador who negotiates in Brussels, you who negotiate in Paris, you too who come here to defend your Secretary of State at the level of Parliament. He's on vacation, this Secretary of State. Unfortunately, he's also in the field. Beware, for we know him. I would be very surprised if, in the coming minutes or days, he would not question your comments on article 3, which you say is sacred, and that he is not twittering his considerations. Prime Minister, I would simply like to quote you Gramsci: "The old world is dying, the new world is slow to come and, in this dark light, the monsters appear. Beware of these monsters!"
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u48	Prime Minister, again, no condemnation! A week ago, day to day, at this desk, I asked you, on behalf of the Socialist Group, for a start, a democratic start. That burst didn't come. On the contrary, for the past week, human rights have been under threat and we have the right to silence on your part. Image of degraded Belgium, silence! Insults and contempt to the institutions, to your government, to your office, silence! Today, in this Parliament, silence! Your silence, but also that of the MR group. I'm sorry. I do not regret it for you, not for me, I regret it for our country, for our rule of law, for our democracy. Prime Minister, I fear that the time will come in a dangerous way. We will not remember the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends. Prime Minister, I ask you again, act!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u49	Prime Minister, I have taken note of your answer. I support your plan of action. It will be with more Europe that we will be able to bring the migration and asylum crisis to a successful conclusion. I believe that we should be able to argue for more realpolitik. I think we should call for agreements to be concluded with a number of third countries. You referred to it. These countries may be open to criticism in terms of democracy. I refer to the deal with Turkey, not nice, but can be defended. The vaseline of your secretary of state is not for me. The establishment of European centres in certain third countries, under the supervision of the United Nations, is, in my view, an absolutely justifiable option. Let us be intellectually correct, if we refuse to do so, I am addressing the left-wing opposition, say that you are de facto in favour of open borders. One cannot want one and the other. It's one or the other. I'm looking at Green's colleagues. When they were in the government, there was a member of the government, Mrs Aelvoet, who called Nepal an early democracy in order to defend arms exports to that country. My group supports you in your approach, Prime Minister. You're following it closely, you've assured me. I wish you every success at the forthcoming summit of Heads of State or Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u50	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u51	Mr Calvo, a little respect! Mr Pivin has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u52	Mr President, Prime Minister, I want to thank you for the clarity of your remarks. Not only the clarity, but also the height of your remarks. Because all of us here are concerned with the reform of the Dublin Convention. We all want – in any case in the majority – the implementation of an effective system to combat smugglers and illegal migration. These are fundamental issues. What must therefore mobilise us, ladies and gentlemen, is the "policy" of migration, and not the "polemic" of migration. So I can only regret the little games, the little sentences that are ultimately instrumentalized. I personally can only deplore this instrumentalization. Because ultimately, in the end, all this hides the fundamental stakes, the fundamental challenges and the future of Schengen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u53	Mr President, Mr Pivin, Article 3 is not a "little word", a "small polemic". It is a fundamental text which, Mr Pivin, has made us live in peace on this continent for 73 years! And I'm defending him. Prime Minister, you can distort our words and our agenda, but that is not what we are defending here. We are defending an article 3 which is of vital value. And it is terrible to see that here in this House we are not politically defending things, no! We are fighting, the whole opposition, to ensure that our country, both at national and European level, defends these fundamental values. Prime Minister, you say you want to reform Dublin? We need to reform Dublin! You say you want a relocation plan across the European Union. How are you going to achieve and achieve these goals by putting yourself in the camp of Orbán, Kurz and Salvini, as Mr Franken did?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u54	Mr President, Prime Minister, you have asked for an alternative to the opposition. Well, I'll give you one in three points. First, ask your Secretary of State to stop honking, tweeting about things like pushbacks, which only exist on Twitter. Pushbacks won't come. The case law of Strasbourg in 2012 is very clear. That's a sterile piste. That's just talk being sold for the election. Secondly, be aware that Article 3 is not the problem. No one here wants to torture, no one here wants to engage in inhumane treatment. The problem is Article 1, in particular jurisdiction. From when does Article 3 apply? Strangely enough, there is the case law there that says that it is enough to be caught on a boat in the Mediterranean to fall under the jurisdiction of a Member State of the Council of Europe. That's crazy. But it is, and the Strasbourg case law will not change very soon. So think of alternatives. Thirdly, I will formulate the alternative. It is even very close to what you have said, but has never done so far. We will indeed have to come to agreements with other countries and ensure safe zones there or in neighbouring countries. Then we can send people there and possibly send them back if they get their expulsion order. Then the influx will drop here, too. Then we can repatriate those who do not wish to seek asylum there. That proposal is human rights proof, does not raise any problem with Article 3 and is fully in line with the ECHR. Join countries such as Austria and leverage the Austrian Presidency to achieve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u55	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have listened carefully to your position and the commitments you have expressed on behalf of the entire government and we support and support them. We also expect this to be our country's position at future meetings of the European Council. Mr President, the debate referred to Chancellor Merkel. Let it be clear that Chancellor Merkel did not say that Article 3 of the Convention on Human Rights should be circumvented and that she did not talk about pushbacks. What was said during the debate is that safe external borders are a fundamental right. Colleagues, I agree with that, too. External borders need to be guarded, ethical boundaries need to be guarded. Both must be balanced, only then will we move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u56	Mr President, Prime Minister, we agree with the outlines of the policy, as you have outlined here. I have just heard speakers say that they cannot explain their alternative in two minutes. Well, I think in all honesty that when the left side, as an alternative, reveals an open border policy, it will not be filled for two minutes. In fact, it always comes down to the fact that whoever, here too, tries to give a number of incentives for an alternative, ends up in the contours that the government is drawing. That is the reality that we can see here today. I will conclude with two points, and I will use the language that the left certainly understands, because La Pasionaria has told us. Firstly, as far as the open external borders are concerned, we say no pasarán. There can be no discussion about this for us. Secondly, what I have noticed with the PS and even with the opposition reflects the essence of what Theo Francken has said in recent days and months: we have a rendezvous with democracy. And the N-VA won't miss that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u57	Deputy Prime Minister, I am going back to other realities and to the figure of two billion euros, i.e. 0.5 % of our GDP or 6.8 % of the turnover of unrealised companies. The European Intellectual Property Office says: 8 000 jobs could be created but are not created because of counterfeiting. This figure of 6.8% is lower than the European figure of 7.5%, but it is nevertheless very worrying for our country. Thirteen sectors are concerned, including clothing, toys, medicines and cosmetics. We also know the country from which counterfeit products come. It is simple: China, Singapore, Hong Kong and Turkey. At European level, statistics show that one in ten people bought a counterfeit product in the previous year. This problem is to be taken very seriously, as is tax evasion or fraud. The fight against counterfeiting must, of course, involve repression and awareness-raising. My questions are as follows. Do the figures available to you confirm those of the European Intellectual Property Office? What are the gateways to counterfeiting in our territory? I thought I'd ask the next question to the Minister of Finance. What are the means available to customs, personnel and technological equipment, and relations with countries producing counterfeit goods? What are the avenues for raising public awareness and combating counterfeiting? What are the relations with the federated entities on the subject of this struggle? What do we have at our disposal in our legislative arsenal to combat this scourge?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u58	Mr Piedboeuf, I can assure you that the fight against counterfeiting is one of the priorities of the Economic Inspectorate, but also of our customs. According to the latest figures, the Economic Inspectorate seized more than 430,000 counterfeit products in 2017. Since the creation, ten years ago, of the Counterfeiting Unit of the SPF Economy, the total value of the intercepted products amounts to almost 100 million euros. You are right to stress the impact of this phenomenon on our economy. There are, of course, a number of reasons why we should address them. First of all, you know that counterfeit products are of inferior quality. In addition, their development and commercialization fund criminal organizations. In addition, they have a negative effect on employment in our country, but also on the income of our businesses as well as those of the State. At present, the Economic Inspectorate and the customs and police services, as well as the other departments concerned, are already working closely together to combat counterfeiting. It is clear that this fight is primarily focused on the production, storage and sale of counterfeit goods. I can also tell you that in order to intensify the pursuit of this struggle, an interministerial committee has been set up and will be responsible for coordinating and strengthening it. It's essential. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u59	Minister, I have felt your full determination - and that of the government - to fight counterfeiting. Similarly, the government is paying particular attention to tax evasion and fraud. Our group therefore encourages you to continue your fight against this scourge, which leads to the loss of jobs and turnover. I wish you every success in this struggle.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u60	Minister, food safety and communication, it remains a very difficult story in Belgium and again today. At the end of May 450 children were infected with salmonella. That's not negative. The catering company from Harelbeke, which had delivered the meals to the schools, was rightly thoroughly investigated by the BFSA. It was right to take firm action and to stop supplying schools, until it was certain that the food was safe. The result came last week. Your food agency ruled the company was top-notch, Mr. Secretary. The deliveries of meals could start again, first to the farms, then to the schools. Then, suddenly, last night at 6:45 p.m., people tell the catering company that it's not gonna happen. Hundred and ten schools got an e-mail last night. All these schools had to quickly notify all parents that the children were allowed to bring their sandwiches today. Mr. Minister, communication: 0 out of 10. Schoolchildren without hot meals, an SME that may go down, is this our food safety policy in 2018? It's not the first time you haven't followed your food agency. A week ago, you locked up a slaughterhouse against the advice of specialists. Minister, the question is very simple, but very important. Do you still trust your own food agency? If you don't trust it, how can people trust it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u61	Minister, the indignation is great in my province, as is the lack of understanding of the decision you made late last night. That incomprehension is actually total. It is a good thing that we can ask you a number of questions today. You have already responded briefly today and referred above all to the principle of caution. It is, however, a good thing that I can ask a number of pertinent questions in this dossier with colleagues. What do we know now? We know there was salmonella poisoning in dozens of schools by the end of May. We know that a thorough investigation was carried out by the three competent services, including the BFSA. We also know that the investigation initially pointed towards the catering company from Harelbeke. The company was turned inside out and upside down. Everything was examined and last Friday the three competent services came to the conclusion that nothing was found. Mr. Secretary, I'm going to take what we know from the coverage. Nothing was found and the company could be checked again. I repeat, that was the situation last Friday. In the meantime, the company has suffered a lot of damage. They haven't been able to work for a week and a half. A lot of costs have also been incurred, not only by the company itself, where a large cleaning operation has been carried out, but also by many schools, which were thoroughly cleaned by specialist firms. So the relief was great. On Monday, the reboot happened with the delivery to the companies. Yesterday ten thousand meals were ready to be delivered to schools. Suddenly, however, last night, a decision was taken by the Cabinet via the BFSA about the company. Minister, on what grounds did you make that decision late last night? Why did you decide that? Secondly, the timing. Last Friday it was announced that nothing had been found and that everything could be released. Then what happened Saturday, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday and yesterday in your cabinet? Why did this come so late? Thirdly, you allow delivery to companies but not to schools. Why? Fourthly, what about the damage suffered, initially as a result of the company and secondly as a result of schools and third parties?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u62	Minister, over the last three weeks there has been a lot of uncertainty and uncertainty in West and East Flanders, because as many as 430 schoolchildren were infected with salmonella. Very soon the catering company was looked at, but after three weeks of uncertainty finally came the good news from the BFSA, our food agency, that the company could start delivering again. The children and schools were all looking forward to the moment when the catering company, with a very good image for more than forty years, would again deliver meals. The schools in turn made a lot of efforts in the area of cleaning. They have spared no effort so that hot meals can be distributed again today. Last night, however, because of your cabinet, an email was sent to the BFSA stating that an additional balance sheet had to be made. Esthio had to pass that on to the schools, who had to notify all parents immediately. Let us be honest: thousands of families had to be informed late at night that they had to take measures for their children. It was almost an impossible job, but the schools have done everything possible and have managed to warn many parents. I give the schools and the parents a compliment, because they have acted so efficiently and firmly. I have two daughters of my own. If I didn't find out at night or early in the morning that they should bring food to school, I have to admit that it would be a bit of chaos at my house. If I had to tell them that the fries or the lasagna would have been taken off the school menu, they would also be seriously disappointed. So it must have been with many families yesterday, I think: a bit of chaos, disappointment, but above all a lot of incomprehension and anger. The reason for the anger and incomprehension, Minister, is not with the parents, nor with the schools or the company. The anger and incomprehension are due to the late communication. Due to late communication, as many as ten thousand meals ended up in the trash can. In short, it meant pure waste and a financial hangover for the schools and the company. Minister, food safety is above all else. I fully understand that as a minister you want to take additional measures or do additional research, if there is a thorough reason for doing so. However, the big question that we all ask is why it happened so late. What new elements did you have last night, which you didn't have at the beginning of the week? An additional balance sheet will now be drawn up. I wonder what that will be, because the BFSA could not answer that yesterday. What exactly will this research involve and when will we be clear about it, because the schools are still in the dark? What is the difference between deliveries to the rest homes and to the schools? After all, the schools were not allowed to be delivered, but some rest homes were. Why is that? Finally, when will we finally be clear? Who will pay the costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u63	Mr Minister, it seems that today all mothers and even grandmothers are speaking. I've lived long enough and I've raised children for a long time to know that children don't die if they don't get a hot meal. But if 500 children have to be taken in because of food contamination, that clearly leads to a lot of loosening. Then it is also logical that the moods are getting high and that a proper investigation should be carried out. The management of the company in question has fully cooperated in the investigation. The company shut the doors. The economic damage cannot be counted. Customers had to find another solution. Ten thousand meals were destroyed. Workers were out of work. That's a sledgehammer for a company. Meanwhile, the BFSA did its work by examining more than 150 samples. Turns out what? The lasagna is not the cause. The company is not to blame. The food agency therefore authorised the company to rework and provide meals last week. It is therefore somewhat incomprehensible that last night you decided that the company is not allowed to provide meals today, because further research is needed. Mr Minister, the BFSA takes 150 samples and cannot find anything to indicate the cause of the infection. The holding is cleaned and disinfected from top to bottom. It's getting ready for reboot with full courage. The employees can get back to work. Then there is your decision, despite the positive advice of the BFSA. For businessmen, this is a second sledgehammer, economic, social and human. Your method raises questions before me, all the more so because a company is convicted before there is any evidence available. Mr President, how can we protect our companies from the consequences of such damaging and unjustified accusations? Has there been any consultation between your services and the BFSA on the restart and on the decision of last night until closure? What is the food agency's advice worth when you put it next to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. As you know, on 24 May the BFSA closed the company Esthio. It did so after the delivery of dishes infected with salmonella. 43 schools were involved in West and East Flanders. To date, more than 450 children have been infected, some have even been hospitalized. Many samples were taken to determine the origin of this salmonella infection. The current results have not yet been able to identify the source of contamination. I therefore think it is necessary to wait until I have received the full results. That was still not the case this morning. Since children, as you know, are a risk group, I have decided not to let the company take back the delivery to school refters. I'm still waiting for the results of the latest tests. Of course I am sensitive to the situation of this company, it has also worked perfectly with the BFSA. However, it is also responsible for the contamination. Moreover, it appears that one of his employees carried salmonella. However, it is a driver and not all the schools to which he provided meals have been contaminated. So I want to make a decision in the light of all the tests. It seems to me to be elementary to have the result before allowing the re-use of supplies to the school refters. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the company has been able to deliver again to its customers who are companies since Monday. This is because it had introduced an action plan in its premises. Unlike children, adults, with some exceptions, do not belong to the risk group. If the latest results of the quick tests are negative, everything will be done to detect the origin of salmonella. That's what the BFSA and Sciensano confirmed to me this morning. No other measure can then be taken. Finally, Mrs Lambrecht, I would like to stress that the BFSA played its technical role perfectly in this dossier. However, as a politically responsible person, I think it is necessary to take a decision on the basis of the results of all the tests. If I had not decided to proceed in this way, some of you would probably have blamed me for this. I just got the results from the latest tests. They're negative. Yesterday, I didn't have those latest results. Now I'm in possession of all the results. I will therefore give the BFSA the permission to allow this company to deliver to school canteens again this afternoon. I understand the inconvenience for the schools and for the parents of the pupils, but I also think they will understand that our decisions in this area are being carefully and accurately taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u65	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I think this is very serious. We trust you and we will follow you, of course, if you say you must have all the tests. It's about our food. It's about food for children. However, I can no longer follow if our food agency, which falls within your jurisdiction, does not wait for all the tests. You have to be on the same page, otherwise it won't work. According to the food agency, the food was safe, but you said the food agency didn't have all the test results. This way we can no longer have confidence in our food. That's not how it works. I urge you to come more into line with your food agency, because food safety does not tolerate any ambiguity. Food safety doesn't tolerate mistrust. Of course, we are all glad that the children will not have to eat sandwiches tomorrow, but will have a hot meal. However, that is not a way of working. A week ago, your food agency said everything was fine, and it's only now that you say you have all the test results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u66	Minister, I have listened carefully to your reply. While in the first part of your answer you kept the company in some kind of suspicion, you ended up with a positive message. You said that you just heard that the results of all the investigations are negative across the board. So the good news is that everything is being released, but I would ask you to be more careful in the future in communication and in decision, because by reacting so late last night, you did not only embarrass the company, but also the schools, parents and children. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Liberals represent a reliable government, both for citizens and for businesses. I ask you to act accordingly, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u67	Minister, in the fipronil crisis, I was very critical of the BFSA's communication, but I find the way in which the communication is conducted in this dossier even more scandalous. In my opinion, it is a textbook example of how communication really should not go. It's very bizarre. Of course, I welcome the current good results, but I really cannot believe that the information was not available last night. I don't understand why it took five days to say that the BFSA can only give the green light if you have all the results. There are clearly two lines of communication. The BFSA said that everything had already been approved, while you said that results were still coming. You should think carefully about speaking with one voice with the BFSA in the future. The schools will now be satisfied that everything is in order, that hot meals can be delivered again, but I do wonder what the value is of the green light that the BFSA gives. What security does a company still have if the BFSA gives the green light, if it can be withdrawn afterwards? I have serious reservations about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for the good news you have brought. If the importance of food safety is at risk, we all agree that there should be no uncertainty. In such cases, investigations and measures should be carried out. In my opinion, any measure taken, if any, should be the result of a negotiated decision between your cabinet and your services, between your cabinet and the BFSA. After all, this is a joint responsibility and our companies are entitled to respectful treatment. I would like to draw your attention to another point. The BFSA is a partner of our companies. There's got to be a bond of trust. With situations such as those of the past few days, unfortunately, we are destroying the bond of confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u69	Mr President, I would like to thank Minister Ducrame for his response. Nevertheless, I regret that the minister is giving lengthy interviews on Thursday morning and that on Thursday afternoon he is absent to respond to his comments in the House. It is a rather pathetic interview, because he states in a nutshell - and it is, in a way, the balance sheet of his ministry - that he was not able to do anything, that he is powerless, that he will not be able to act and that, in short, it is the fault of others. It is the fault of the Flemish (he says in his interview), of his government (it is quite possible) and it is also the fault of the Regions (it seems)... The overflight of Brussels would be the fault of the Regions! In particular, because the Regions would not come to its meetings and invitations. This is completely wrong: these come to its meetings. On the other hand, he claims to have a plan since July 2017. He said so, while fifteen days earlier he claimed the opposite! All right, it's okay! He says today he has a plan, a plan that no one has ever seen. He has never tabled it and the Chair of the Infrastructure Committee confirms it to me before your self-denials, Mr.Ducarme: he has never deposited any piece of paper. The problem is that it did not do so either in Parliament or at those meetings where it convened the Regions. So they come up without knowing what this is going to be because nothing is being proposed to them. They do not know whether to say yes or no to a non-existent plan that exists only in Mr Bellot's boxes. It's time for Mr. Bellot to stop disposing of himself. At the same time, he prides himself on being the Prime Minister of Mobility to have commissioned an impact study, but forgets to say that he was forced to do so as a result of a court decision that intimidated him from ordering this study to be carried out. He needed a year to designate a study office, and it worked well for him. In fact, he was at the end of the legislature and could take refuge behind this impact report. Consequently, Mr Ducrame, I hope that you will come with some news from Mr Bellot to say that he will present this plan to the House and to the Regions and that we can finally move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u70	Mr Dallemagne, thank you for your question. It seems useful to me to point out that my colleague, François Bellot, Minister for Mobility, is unavailable, because he is selected at the European Council in Luxembourg. He asks me to answer this. In the context of the last judgement in the case of the overflight, which came to him last week, he states that "the judge inter alia orders the State to cease six phases of the Wathelet plan", former Secretary of State cdH. Minister Bellot has always stated that "a solution would not come from judicial decisions." Justice has already decided in opposite directions. Judgments are sometimes in reaction to each other. Mr Cheron, the minister said that "it will not be possible to find a lasting solution to the problem. In this case, it is necessary to find a comprehensive solution that takes into account all the components of the dossier, whether on economic, technical or legal lines." François Bellot confirmed that he had tabled a draft comprehensive solution on the table, more than a year ago, without the interlocutors agreeing on it. Mr Dallemagne, don't act like you don't know! "The dossier of the overview concerns about ten types of actors who all have a series of competences and responsibilities in their direction, including the Regions with regard to noise standards and spatial planning. Without them, a solution can never be implemented in this case. They must also take responsibility because they have crucial skills." That is exactly what Minister Bellot wanted to illustrate with this situation, which, it should be pointed out, has been removed from his context. "Unfortunately, there seems to be no consensus either between the Regions or even within them." This, Mr Dallemagne, is reflected in the conflicts of interest between the Brussels Region and the Flemish Region. "The criticisms of any proposal for a solution, wherever it comes from, also testify to the lack of willingness on the part of the actors to find a solution in this matter." And as Mr. Bellot points out in closing, "although collaboration is crucial in this case."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u71	Mr President, he can be awarded the price of silverware in terms of the language of wood. We can congratulate him for speaking for two minutes and not saying anything. You'll compliment him on me! The truth is that the minister is competent, but he has problems in his government. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u72	Yes, he said it again yesterday in committee. He has problems in his government. It is for this reason that he cannot appear before Parliament with a document. It is time for him to show a little more courage, a little more audacity in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u73	Others have shown courage! They, at least, took risks, Mr.Flahaux, – it must be acknowledged – while the minister whose question sits on his file. He understood that his voices would not come from Brussels. He's got nothing to do with the bruxellois! That is the truth! He sat on his file and he won't do anything, Mr. Flahaux! We have to let the Brussels people know!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u74	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u75	Following the attack in Liège on Tuesday 29 May 2018, the Scottish Parliament expressed my condolences. On the occasion of the deadly attack in Liège on Tuesday, May 29, 2018, I received a message of condolences from the Scottish Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u76	I have received amendments to the draft law amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights in order to reform the Registry Rights, Nos 2569/1 to 9. I have received amendments to the Bill amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Fees to reform Registry Fees, Nos. 2569/1 to 9. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 June 2018, I propose that the draft bill be sent back to the Finance and Budget Committee in order to discuss these amendments. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 June 2018, I propose that the bill be referred to the Finance and Budget Committee to allow for the consideration of these amendments. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u77	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Françoise Schepmans, Philippe Goffin.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u78	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u79	Mr President, in view of the diversity of the issues contained in this text, wisdom requires reference to the written report, with each speaker justifying his point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u80	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we have a large legislative proposal before us for a vote. The title may misleadingly suggest that it is only about mediation and alternative dispute resolution, but there is more to this draft. With a number of very important modernisations, the civil status is changed. The most important reform is the introduction of the DABS database, which will ensure greater uniformity and, above all, cost-efficiency. We therefore welcome this initiative. We believe that this will represent progress in the field for civil servants who are working on this matter on a daily basis. We expect that there will be sufficient information sessions and training for these officials so that the time savings envisaged by this innovation can be felt from the outset. There are other changes, such as the right to name. The aim here is to simplify and rationalise the procedure for changing the name and first name. Not everything will have to appear before the Minister. Much will be completed by the civil status itself. This is a good thing in terms of handling and legal certainty. For us, the most important change is conciliation. A legal framework for collaborative negotiations is also being created. This is very important to our group. We have also submitted a number of legislative initiatives in this area. We're gonna have another bill on our hands. We are happy to look forward to any initiative for alternative dispute resolution. All too often, legal proceedings lead to difficult situations which may worsen and escalate. As a result, the relationship between individuals is even more acidified. That is why this mediation is so important, especially in family conflicts, which are often thrown into the open, which makes a reasonable solution all the more difficult. We are very pleased that the government in general and the Minister of Justice in particular are further encouraging alternative forms of dispute resolution. This legislative work is an important step forward in this area. However, it can only work if adequate attention is paid to this issue in the training of magistrates and lawyers. Only in this way can the judicial procedure once again become the ultimate remedy. We therefore hope that this legislation will lead to a change of attitude. It is important that citizens find their way to out-of-court mediation before they start legal proceedings, but even when the procedure has already started, it should not be too late for mediation. It is good that the judge can refer citizens to mediation if he or she finds that this is still a valid option, without delaying the procedure. The training of recognised mediators will be thoroughly reformed and the title of the profession protected. In this way, citizens can count on quality guidance, which is very important. We are therefore pleased that the final choice has been made to specialise in the training and that this possibility is retained. Indeed, mediation in family matters is not comparable to mediation in commercial matters. We look forward to this, we hope that the objective will be achieved and that we can continue to work on a change of mindset, making the legal procedure the ultimate remedy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u81	Colleagues, Minister, once again, we are confronted with a waterzooi that moves us from the creation of a civil registration database to the co-ownership, to the alternative settlement of conflicts, the acquisition of nationality and so many other, yet important, subjects that we are obliged to touch upon, given the sequence of projects and the diversity of the topics covered. I will focus on co-ownership, alternative dispute resolution methods such as mediation and collaborative law, and rules that still restrict the acquisition of nationality. I will highlight the difficulties associated with the use of certain terms in the draft law, which only respond to the concrete situation in Flanders and do not take into account the specificities of the integration policy systems in Brussels and Wallonia. First, with respect to co-ownership, the bill is generally positive and facilitates sometimes complex situations between co-owners. However, allowing for the private use of commons and the possibility of modifying the common thing at its own expense, provided that it did not harm and did not change its destination, was the subject of a series of very lively remarks on the part of the National Union of Owners and Co-owners (SNPC), which considered that this article could be equated with a form of expropriation for the benefit of private actors. We are still wondering why you have not decided to reconvene the working group to focus on this issue. Similarly, the accusations of privatization of a common space, knowing that the owner who has installed this infrastructure for his own account remains the owner of it, seem to us to be relevant. If the amendment which allows the association of the co-owners to carry out the works of optimisation of the infrastructure itself is a real improvement of the text, maintaining the possibility for the co-owner or the public works operator to do the works without the agreement of the condominium and in the interests of a single co-owner seems questionable. With regard to mediation and collaborative law, we are pleased that the hearings have led to good progress and to correct the shooting in a significant way. Ordering a mediation, suspending the proceedings or even putting the case back on a fixed date to impose or attempt to impose on the parties to settle their dispute through mediation seemed to us completely incongruous and contrary to the voluntary nature of the mediation by definition. We can still regret the convoluted formulas such as "ordering the parties to try to resolve the dispute through mediation" or "as ordered to try to resolve", which continue to be meaningless in the face of the voluntary nature of alternative dispute resolution. Other questions arise on the training of mediators and the maintenance of specificities. The future will tell us whether this reform has yet to be reviewed. Finally, with regard to the reform of the acquisition of nationality, as pointed out by the professor and vice-dean of the Faculty of Law of Liège, the project on this subject is truly a missed opportunity. The 2012 law had shown a series of practical implementation difficulties. Reparation for this bill is not at all the statutory ratio of this bill. Structural difficulties, in particular to enable the magistrate to take account of individual concrete circumstances, have thus been pointed out and have not been resolved in this bill. In addition, some associations specializing in the field of foreign nationals' law consider that the amendments still restrict the acquisition of nationality, in particular by creating new difficulties for persons seeking to become Belgian. Although some changes are positive, such as the reintroduction of state ownership, it is regrettable that the wording is more restrictive than it was before 2012. Others, on the other hand, are clearly questionable. Once again, this text makes it impossible to take account of the concrete situation of foreigners wishing to acquire Belgian nationality. On the other hand, another essential point for my group is the problem of proof of social integration, and the question of the short path, also known as the integration route. As you know, before 2017, integration was not required everywhere in Belgium. Persons wishing to obtain Belgian nationality had to prove their social integration overnight, which was not materially possible. The French Community Commission has therefore taken a transitional measure to deal with this blockage. It has set up citizen modules for people in Belgium for more than three years. These modules are very much in demand, and the waiting list is long for those who request to participate. However, these modules do not constitute an integration route, a reception route or an integration route as such. That is how the question of their recognition in the bill before us arises. The concept covered by the words "successfully followed" also causes difficulties in some parts of our country. In order to ensure respect for the competences of the federated entities, it is therefore necessary to aim at the different terminology in question, and not to require a "successful follow-up" of a course or course of integration. That is true, you have slightly amended the draft on this point, but alas, that is not enough for us. The three-year transitional period will not improve the situation since the obligation is not yet in force in Brussels because of the difficulties in concluding the necessary cooperation agreement. Moreover, the obligation will not affect Europeans, thus preventing a European Union national from applying for Belgian nationality. We will certainly have the opportunity to review these amendments relating to these articles. Despite the many advances made and the themes on which we agreed with you, Minister, my group will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u82	Mr President, Minister, in this text, which no longer bears the name of potpourri but of "various provisions in civil law", the MR is very pleased to find two topics which have been the subject of legislative proposals. On the one hand, it is a question of introducing the possibility of an appeal of full jurisdiction before the family court in matters relating to surname and first name. It was regrettable that the modification of the first or last name that was the subject of an administrative decision could not be the subject of an appeal on the merits. It is well known that recourses to the Council of State relate to form and not to substance. From now on there will be the possibility of going to the natural court of such cases, i.e. the family court. It is a good proposal that is integrated and we welcome it. This is, on the other hand, the privilege accorded to condominiums. As we know, costs are incurred by the condominium and some co-owners, unfortunately, are indelicate and forget to participate in the collective effort. However, in the event of a sale, some creditors could use the price of the sale by way of privilege. From now on, it will also be possible for the condominium to recover, within the framework of a privilege, any rights in the sale price that would be obtained under it. Mr Minister, we voted in favour of the text in committee. We shall vote in favour of the text in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u83	It will undoubtedly surprise no one that we will support this draft. It contains many elements that our party supports, it provides solutions to all kinds of problems, and it means modernising civil status and accompanying administrative simplification, which is an invaluable work. A database is being set up. New acts will only be drawn up electronically. I think that many mayors who now have to sign a lot of deeds will be glad they shouldn't do that anymore. This avoids a lot of duplication. This will simplify not only the civil status but also the Registrys. Digital documents become authentic and can be called up in this way; a unique data input is also provided. This, of course, entails financial savings, even if municipalities have to pay a small amount for the programmes in their databases. The procedure for the first name change now rests with the municipalities. It is important that the staff involved are adequately trained in the first instance. In addition to the changes to nationality and adoption law, there are the adjustments to co-ownership on the basis of proposals from the working group led by the professors Lecocq and Sagaert of KU Leuven with a view to improving and more flexible operation of the association of co-owners. For example, a flexible, qualified majority is sufficient to allow necessary works to be carried out for properties with different co-owners and blockages are prevented. There is also the compulsory contribution for a reserve fund. It is indeed important that provision is made for a commission for necessary co-ownership works. Furthermore, as Mr Goffin said, a privilege is being created under the mortgage law. Finally, alternative dispute resolution is being further strengthened and developed, and we are very pleased about that. There will be clarity, not only about out-of-court dispute resolution, earlier voluntary dispute resolution, but also about the judicial solution. We are simply talking about mediation, friendly settlement and settlement within the framework of family law. At the time, before a subpoena was issued, the justice of the peace could also call for reconciliation or an amicable settlement. We all think it is important that mediation and agreements are given a better and greater place. In the past steps have already been taken in this respect, including in the reform of the pro-Deo scheme with a lower threshold in the point count or nomenclature for friendly arrangements in the second-line legal assistance. The regulation also provides that, if the court considers it useful and sees that an intermediate solution is possible, it may call on the parties to do so. It is difficult to force it in the context of mediation; at Flemish level we are talking about special care for young people about the provision of care. In this way, the court can provide so-called grooming friendly arrangements. The quality of the recognised mediators has also been taken into account and a new procedure for collaborative negotiations has been introduced into the text, a practice common to the OBFG. More opportunities are being created to find solutions to disputes in a confidential manner by mutual agreement, in addition to and where appropriate with a court of law. Why do we think mediation is so important? Scientific research has shown more often that conflict resolution can offer more opportunities for success if parties are truly involved. I am very pleased with the regulation on recognition today. I went to look it up on the internet and I noticed that I had already submitted a proposal for a decree on recognition of mediators at Flemish level in the years 2000. We got a lot of headwind back then, because lawyers thought it was not done that the regions would settle for lawyers-intermediaries. I am actually very pleased that there has been a great deal of progress today in resolving conflicts by mutual agreement. The introduction of quality guarantees confirms the recognition of the mediator.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u84	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are almost in front of a seventh "pot-pourri". You no longer dare to use this term, Mr. Minister, when it was dear to you. This text confronts us with ten matters unrelated to each other. As a result, it is difficult to form a definitive opinion about him, although we are being asked to engage in this exercise. I will explain this at the end of my presentation. Previously, Minister, I think we have reached the limits of the "melting-pot", "pot-pourri", "waterzooi" method. At the end of our work, our colleague Van Hecke - who has been absent - has taken the habit of requesting a second reading, so that the Chamber's legal services can verify the legal quality of the task we have accomplished. In this case, it must be acknowledged that their score is, at least, severe. Indeed, it contains no less than 105 observations, which justified the tabling of 60 amendments at second reading - independently of those which had been introduced during the first examination of the draft. I would point out that most of them do not come from the opposition, but from the majority. This demonstrates, on the one hand, that the method followed is not the most effective and, on the other hand, that the second reading which we invoke very regularly is justified. In substance, Minister, the bulk of your case is focused - in my view, in any case - on two essential aspects. I am thinking first of how our communes will draft and manage civil status acts and then of the place you intend to reserve for mediation as an alternative method of conflict resolution. On these two issues, I will not have great difficulty following you. Simplification and automation of civil registration processes are in itself commendable measures, as they will bring our communal services into the 21st century. They will now use information technology as an essential support. I am thinking of the establishment of a central register and the use of acts in electronic form. This is probably the prelude to tomorrow's citizens being able to order, whatever the place concerned by the act, a copy of it without even having to appear before the counter of any municipal administration which is sometimes no longer even that of the place where they are located. It is therefore positive developments that will simplify the matter. All of the listeners we heard about this project have expressed interest. The issue that remains and that will require special attention in the coming months and years is the extent of the civil registry officer's responsibility for acts. We know that today the registrar is responsible for errors, failings or even errors that may appear in the acts and, in particular, for the transcription of acts by the judiciary. Your project does not address this issue permanently. We will have to keep an eye on it in the future. Mr Minister, I have also asked you about the financial impact of this reform, particularly for the municipalities that will have to consider a whole different way of working on the drafting of the acts. To believe you, and I am ready to follow you, apart from the costs associated with the acquisition of software, or even computer support suitable for links with the central registry, we should free up hours of work for the municipal staff. I will accept the auguration and we will see to the use what it will be. It is clear that additional costs will have to be taken into account by the federal government for the establishment of this central registry. The only real question I have asked in our committee work, which I am putting to you this afternoon and which I shall reword again in the form of an amendment, is that of the dematerialization of these acts of civil status, acts ranging from a prior recognition of paternity to a decision of legal cohabitation, the recognition of an unborn child, etc., a whole series of acts with fundamental consequences for the lives of the citizens of this country. With your project tomorrow, these acts will no longer be signed by the registrar who will simply forward them to the Central Registry and, above all, will no longer be signed by the protagonists. Tomorrow, if I'm going to make a statement from an unborn child, I won't have to sign this statement. If I'm going to apply for cohabitation, I won't have to sign it. What problems are we going to encounter on the day a person comes to mind challenging a situation that he or she probably wanted by appearing before the registrar, asking the registrar to make an act of the will that he or she expresses verbally before him or her? An act will be drawn up without the applicant's signature. And tomorrow, he will come to say that this is not exactly what he was asking for, what he wanted, arguing that the registrar or the communal agent had misinterpreted his request and had not correctly transcribed it, and he will challenge the document. How will he be asked to provide proof of a negative fact that his lack of consent would constitute? We will face a real difficulty. We must therefore pay attention to such a situation. Moreover, by no longer collecting the citizen's signature – this element is even more fundamental – it is not responsible for it in the act it poses. As I have reminded you, these are matters which are essential, which affect the state of people, and which, in addition to this dimension of accepting their responsibility by signing them at the bottom of an act, have a completely symbolic dimension. The Council of State had, moreover, drawn the attention of the legislator that we are on this issue. In response, you have told us, Mr.Minister, that there should not be many such situations, which we could assess, depending on the development of the situation and the implementation of this text. In my view, this is one of the weaknesses of your project which does not require further comments on this point and which is more in the right direction. We've already talked about the term co-ownership. I shall therefore not extend myself at length on this point. However, one wonders why it appears, again, in a piece of legislation that has already been the subject of legislative amendments that are always piecemeal depending on more or less difficult or dramatic situations that are experienced in the management of condominiums, either with indelicate trustees or with co-owners who, having not paid the costs, are not likely to be reached by a seizure, which is why a privilege over the costs of co-ownership is being considered today. That's good, but again, isn't it doing a little bit of anything, knowing that a reform of property law is expected and who is – if I'm not mistaken – currently under discussion within the government? The other central theme is the diversion of a whole series of conflicts. We will obviously agree on this, Mr Minister, because the dossier has evolved as the committee's work, the second reading and the number of amendments which have been accepted by the majority, in view of the way in which our work has been conducted, the comments of the various Members, but also the opinions given by the people concerned on this important subject. Indeed, not only does this diversion not only apply to family conflicts but also to any form of conflict that can be resolved through a voluntary process; it necessarily leads to acquiescence on the part of those who participate in it if this method of proceeding, of considering things, has actually been consented to. So you're taking a step in the right direction. My blasphemy – and you know it – is that you do not come up with this entirely positive option of incentives for "justiciables" – since if we dejudice, we may no longer have to call them as such. However, the financial incentive is essential if mediation is to flourish. As we have seen, a previous Justice Commission visited Quebec and examined how our friends in Canada, through mediation, had been able to resolve a large number of cases that otherwise ended up in courts and tribunals. If we want to have the same ratio of efficiency, it will be necessary at some point for public authorities to make the "effort" not only to advocate intellectually, legally, mediation but to support it through financial intervention. I would like to remind you that I myself have tabled a bill to fund five sessions of family mediation. It is necessary to start with a form of mediation to see if, in fact, it is a timely and adequate way to promote this type of conflict resolution. In the text, we have discussed at length the composition of the mediation commission, the despecialisation of mediators, while we know that two thirds (not to say three quarters) of mediations today are essentially family in nature, and that this specificity cannot be lost at first. The hope is that, in the long term, mediation extending to other types of situations, it may be considered not to be an exclusive apex to the resolution of situations in the field of family law. Today, we must take this reality into account. It seems to me essential that the specialty of mediators continues to appear. The amendments you have accepted have been in this direction. Another point, which I have raised and to which you have given a provisional and partial reply, concerns the exemption from VAT, which applies today to family mediators. The only tax incentive to resort to mediation is that the fees of mediators are not subject to VAT in the case of family mediation. What about other forms of mediation? What about maintaining the VAT exemption for family mediators? Minister, in your answer, you may be able to come back to the question and be a little more specific or firmer than in committee. However, the assessments and benefits of this text compared to the original text, such as the efforts made in the area of collaborative law, lead us to say that, for the most part, this project is in the right direction and deserves special attention, despite a few small imperfections that will probably have to be corrected over time. In the leader of the group I represent, he justifies giving him a positive vote earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u85	Minister, I would like to talk to you about the legislative technique that you apparently like to use, namely the amalgam laws. You can also call it potpourri laws or describe them in another way. I can understand that when it comes to rapid reform, for example, on speeding up the efficiency of justice. I can still understand why you're bringing a number of things together. However, the draft laws containing various provisions continue to flow into Parliament. Now it is a law in which there are matters relating to family law: civil status, name, nationality, adoption. Then one jumps to the law of goods, with a piece on co-ownership, and then one makes a detour to the Legal Code, with the attachment, alternative forms of dispute resolution and negotiation. We are both very young and, when we were a little younger than we are today, we both, I suspect, wrote about earlier programme laws that it was a very poor legislative technique. I suspect you've done the same. That was a bit of a fashion subject back then. At least I did, and I called them "junk laws" and even "dirty bin laws." In French one speaks of the lois fourre-tout. I notice that you are not listening, Minister of Justice. You're listening, for what you're thanking, because it's important. It's about legislative technique. This, of course, makes parliamentary control particularly difficult, because in the amalgam laws there are things that one is for, things that one is against and things that one can live with. However, it is already difficult for MEPs to wrestle through these draft laws, let alone make it easy for opposition parties to take a political position. For the majority parties it is very easy to adopt a political position: they must vote in favour, so they should not ask any questions. I would therefore call for this legislative technique to be used with moderation, only if there is a particularly important reason to justify it. A few weeks ago, we also voted on a law laying down various provisions. Among other things, there was a change in language law in court cases, with corresponding sanctions. At that time, I read the report of the Committee on Justice, but there was very little in it. If that piece had not been placed in a large mosaic on all kinds of other matters, it is hard to imagine that the Flemish groups would have approved it. Maybe so, but I don't think so. That's why I'd like to ask for something more orthodox to deal with laws. I do not think it is appropriate to include subjects such as civil status, co-ownership or preservation, which have nothing to do with each other, in one amalgamation law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u86	Is anyone else asking for the floor? [[No.]] In that case, I shall give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vuye, I will begin with your general thought. You are actually proposing to apply a salami tactic to all these topics. In that case, however, there is another risk. Recently, I proposed the civilian infiltration in my committee, and later on the regrets. The opposition has asked me to put these two issues to the vote together. More fundamentally, each of these subjects has an urgent nature in its own way. The modernisation of civil status is urgent, as is the adaptation of co-ownership to 2018 and the modernisation of mediation. Separate hearings were held on each of these subjects. Parliament's control of the vote may be somewhat clouded, but as far as democratic control of expertise is concerned, I have to tell you that the Committee on Justice takes the necessary time, firstly by wide-ranging hearings and secondly by almost systematic second reading. I wouldn't know what other committee that is going on systematically, but if you know one, I'd be happy to take note of it. With regard to Mrs Özen's comments on network co-ownership, co-owners are notified in good time and can also propose to make the same investments themselves - for example a new network - without the other co-owners having to bear the financial burden. They can always object to this in a variety of cases of legitimate interest. I was also opposed to the fact that we would have touched on the voluntary nature of mediation. There are always two aspects. As a first step, the question is whether a judge can impose a mediation attempt. Secondly, the question is whether the judge can impose a mediation on his or her solution. The answer to the second question is always negative, but it is obvious that in many cases we know in our legislation the possibility for a judge to impose the trial of a mediation. That is exactly what we have tried to do. I refer, for example, to the farm lease, section 1385 and the labour court, section 734, two articles of the Judicial Code or, with regard to mortgage credit, section 59 of the Act. As regards the problems of nationality between the Regions and the Communities, there have already been two round tables with the Communities. In order to meet Brussels' concerns, a transitional provision has been included. At the same time, we will be holding a third consultation at the end of June to further agree on which certificates should be taken into account in order to prove the facts. The outcome of this consultation will be reflected in a circular. With regard to the formations, Mrs Uyttersprot, various preparations have already been made for civil status in cooperation with the DAV and the association of civil society officials. The courses will take place in June and will be organised by the VLAVABBS. In addition, there is a list of frequently asked cases, Q&A, on the website of the DAV. With regard to Mr Brotcorn's second reading, it is a good answer to what Mr Vuye said. Mr Brotcorne, we have done our best to take this second reading seriously. We haven't accelerated at all, at any time. We have had time to consider all the amendments. As there was a lot of material, it is normal that there were many technical corrections. With regard to the cost of mediation, it is of course important that mediation be accessible to those with limited means. I only point out to you that under the nomenclature for "second line" legal aid, we have provided a higher rate for someone who succeeds in mediation than for someone who is on the way to trial. The ambition is to do exactly the same for the classification of deductible legal protection insurance. As far as the structure of the mediation committee is concerned, I believe that we have discussed it extensively in the Committee on Justice. We believe that a division of commissions by function specialization should allow for better processing of cases. On the other hand, the committee that drafts the ethical rules will not decide on disciplinary sanctions. This makes the disciplinary commission more independent, through a separation of powers. In addition, we have tried to extend the scope of mediation to include disputes or disputes with public authorities. That also seems important to us. I believe that we have given you sufficient information in committee on the aspect of VAT. If you have any more specific questions, I would ask you to address the appropriate minister. Colleagues, this is for the few answers you asked me. I hope that, in this way, we will be able to vote on this law, which is of particular importance to our municipalities in matters of civil status and to our citizens in matters of mediation and co-ownership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u88	Minister, I know that Mr Vuye is asking for a reply. Mr Vuye, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u89	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I find it very pertinent that you compare your laws containing various provisions with a salami. Also of a salami nobody knows what is in it and it is very difficult to know what the salami is made of. This is the same for Members of Parliament in the laws governing various provisions. You answer me what I didn't ask you to do. I do not, of course, ask you to present your salami in slices of one millimeter to Parliament. I'm not asking you to do that. If you had divided that salami into three parts, in part with the family law aspects, part with the property law aspects and part with the aspects of judicial law, I would have been more than satisfied. At that time, I would have known fully what your salami was made up of. By throwing all the issues together, it will be very difficult for Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u90	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u91	The draft law was split by the committee pursuant to Rule 72 (2), second paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure. The bill was split by the commission pursuant to rule 72.2, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 2919/10 (matters referred to in Article 74 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2919/10) We turn to the articles of Bill No. 2919/10 (matter referred to in Article 74 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2919/10) The title was amended by the Committee in draft law laying down various provisions on civil law and provisions for the promotion of alternative forms of dispute resolution '. The title has been amended by the committee in draft on various provisions in civil law and provisions to promote alternative forms of dispute resolution [["]] The draft law has 244 articles. The bill has 244 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u92	Art. 4 • 180 - Christian Brotcorne (2919/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u93	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u94	****** We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 2919/11 (matters referred to in Article 78 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2919/11) We turn to the articles of Bill No. 2919/11 (matter referred to in article 78 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2919/11) The title was amended by the Committee in draft law inserting an Article 1727/6 into the Judicial Code '. The title has been amended by the commission to include an article 1727/6 in the Judicial Code." The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u95	No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u96	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u97	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Goedele Uyttersprot, Sarah Smeyers, Sophie De Wit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u98	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u99	Mr President, the proposal was adopted unanimously by the committee. I therefore refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u100	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a word of explanation for this legislative proposal. Usually grandparents have a very special relationship with their grandchildren and they can play an important role in the development, education and development of these grandchildren. In the event of a parent's death or divorce, it may be that the relationship is prevented or abruptly terminated. Now grandparents can turn to the family court for that. In 2017, no less than 700 grandparents or grandparent couples made use of this possibility. To date, however, this arrangement has proved to be insufficient or an empty box. There are large regional differences which do not benefit legal certainty. Often this is the beginning of a long, legal struggle. That is why this bill is before the vote today: the procedure must be faster, more efficient and more humane. The bill has two main lines. Firstly, the family court should examine the possibility of conciliation at the first session in order to avoid an introductory session merely involving practical arrangements. It is intended that the matter should be dealt with in an effective manner. That is important, especially because it concerns family conflicts. Originally the scheme was only intended for grandparents, but during the work we extended the scheme and its scope. This applies not only to grandparents, but now also to parents and foster parents, so to anyone who asks for access rights. A second important element is that from now on the family court will be able to refuse access to justice between grandparents and grandchildren only if it goes against the best interests of the child. We know, of course, that there are situations where the best interests of the child are compromised by granting access rights to grandparents. In all other cases, however, the bond between grandchildren and their grandparents must be preserved. I would like to thank everyone from the Committee on Justice, which unanimously approved this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u101	Mr President, we support this proposal. First of all, it is clear that conciliation is being extended to the family court. When we introduced the family court at the time, we already wanted to do so in order to be able to put that strong stamp on it. Secondly, there is the place of the grandparents. Sometimes they are the stable factor in a difficult relationship between parents. However, it is not always easy for newly formed families, because then one can have many grandparents. However, I believe that this legislation once again focuses on the fact that the importance of children prevails, knowing that grandparents too are very keen to see their grandchildren and that they also want to have their place in education.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u102	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u103	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1895/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1895/6) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending Article 375a of the Civil Code and Articles 1253ter/1, 1253ter/3 and 1253quater of the Civil Code." The title has been amended by the Commission to propose a law amending article 375bis of the Civil Code and articles 1253ter/1, 1253ter/3 and 1253quater of the Judicial Code". The bill has 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u104	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u105	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u106	Mr President, I would like to refer to the written report. There have also been no statements in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u107	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u108	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3061/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3061/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u109	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u110	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Gautier Calomne, David Clarinval, Richard Miller, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Benoît Friart.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u111	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2782/1) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2782/1) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u112	Mr President, the vote in committee was unanimous. That is why I would like to refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u113	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. No amendments were tabled or retabled. No amendments have been tabled or retabled. The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u114	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Daphné Dumery, Jef Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u115	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u116	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal fits in with road safety policy. Since January 2015, the cases in which the judge is obliged to impose recovery examinations and investigations have been extended after a conviction to decline the right to direct. Recovery examinations mean the theoretical and practical driving examination. The studies refer to medical and psychological tests to be carried out on convicted persons before they get their driving licence back. The magistrates are today tied to hands and feet and have to impose examinations for the highest category of driving licence that the convicted person has. A person who has obtained a driving licence C is punished more severely than a person who has a normal driving licence B, even if she or he has committed the offence in private life, for example during a trip with a regular passenger car. With this proposal, we are making more room for the magistrates to be punished on a tailor-made basis. The possibility is introduced to impose examinations for the category of vehicle in respect of which the offence was committed. In this way, the link between the offence on the one hand and the punishment on the other hand is established and more reasonable road safety policy is introduced. As far as recovery examinations and investigations are concerned, it is important that they are carried out efficiently. I have also once argued for a quality standard, as it exists in other countries. Those examinations and examinations have not only a financial but also a factual impact, in that they often take longer to get the licence back. We must therefore be very careful, but I believe that this proposal is a step towards more reasonable road safety policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, today the House is about to vote for an important text that is of particular interest to me and to my party. The bill tabled by my distinguished colleague Sabien Lahaye-Battheu aims at remedying anomalies which may arise in the context of "reintegration" examinations. For example, a person subject to a driving ban for all categories of vehicles and engines, who must undergo examinations in order to be reinstated in the right to drive, must submit his or her examinations for the highest category of the driver's licence he or she has obtained. This situation seems totally abnormal to me. What does this text propose to us? The proposed law now allows judges to make reintegration into the right to lead to the successful completion of the reintegration examination for the category of vehicles with which the offence giving rise to the revocation has been committed. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, this amendment to the law of 16 March 1968 goes without saying and therefore logically responds to a concern for fairness. I congratulate my colleague Sabien Lahaye-Battheu on his bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u119	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u120	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2340/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2340/6) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u121	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u122	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Tim Vandenput, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u123	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3039/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3039/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u124	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u125	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Vincent Van Peteghem, refers to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u126	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3057/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3057/1) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u127	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u128	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2811: Brecht Vermeulen, André Frédéric, Gautier Calomne, Franky Demon, Vincent Van Peteghem, Katja Gabriëls, Kristof Calvo, Jean-Marc Nollet, Catherine Fonck - 2813: Emmanuel Burton, Brecht Vermeulen, André Frédéric, Gautier Calomne, Franky Demon, Vincent Van Peteghem, Katja Gabriëls, Jean-Marc Nollet, Catherine Fonck - 2812: Katja Gabriëls, Brecht Vermeulen, André Frédéric, Gautier Calomne, Franky Demon, Vincent Van Peteghem, Jean-Marc Nollet, Catherine Fonck. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these three proposals. I propose that you devote one discussion to these three proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u129	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Van Biesen, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u130	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the work of the Working Party on Political Renewal, several legislative proposals have been drawn up and referred to the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution and the Reform of the Institutions. This committee has been very active in recent weeks, although it is not always successful in reaching conclusions. The first part approved in this Chamber concerns the declaration of assets and mandates. Particular attention will be paid to transparency and control by the Court of Auditors. After this hatch the first part of a diptych lies ahead of the financial decumulation, better known as the 150 % rule. The first part of this diptych clarifies what should be understood by public mandates. The second part will later specify that special parliamentary functions are also covered by this rule. Already now, the 1931 Act determines the amount of allowances, bets and attendance allowances that may be received as a maximum as a result of the secondary exercise of a public mandate, function or office of a political nature. According to the 1931 Act, this ceiling should be limited to half the amount of parliamentary compensation, which should not be exceeded. To that end, the law also includes the extension of the scope of the legislation to the asset and mandate declaration. For example, a number of new cases will now be covered by the 150 % rule, i.e. the remuneration resulting from the exercise of functions in boards of directors, advisory councils and management committees. This rule applies to three categories which I will not list here. The entry into force coincides with the complete renewal of the Chamber. The same exercise was made with the special law for the Federal Chambers and the Länder, so that it is uniform for all other parliaments. Ladies and gentlemen, in concrete terms, this means reporting to the President of Parliament when, in addition to his parliamentary mandate, compensation is paid for the exercise of a public mandate. If the total of fees exceeds 150 per cent of the parliamentary wager, it will be shortened. Today, it only clarifies which public mandates fall within the scope of the law. Now that the first part of the diptych of the financial decumulation is in place, I hope to be able to explain the second part very soon. I had hoped to be able to approve it in the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution and the Reform of the Institutions, but unfortunately this has not yet happened. However, we continue to be optimistic and forward, even though it sometimes resembles the procession of Echternach. These measures are designed to restore confidence in the political system. That's why people chose us. I'd like to give you a little explanation. Some of my colleagues feared that I would speak here for a long time. Well, I've provided proof: I can also speak for less than 30 minutes from this chair. Mr Frédéric, you are probably very pleased with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u131	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Vermeulen for the quality of his speech, but above all for his conciseness. This is not frequent on my part, but I like to do so in plenary session. Mr Vermeulen, you are making progress in this regard. There is no need to amend the Rules of the House. You're adapting, and it's important. My group will, of course, support this text because it has co-signed it. I would remind you that it is the result of a work that lasted a year and a half, for which the conclusions of the Political Renewal Group were tabled almost a year ago. So some of us have spoken on several occasions in an attempt to move things forward. We found that we were hastening, certainly, but very slowly. As you have just pointed out, the declaration of assets and income, both public and private, on the Court of Auditors' website is a decision that we have already taken almost unanimously in the House. Today we support a number of texts. All revenues are capped at 150%, all inclusive as we have said. We will be pleased to approve the text. It may be difficult for public opinion to find it in the way in which we achieve all the agreements reached, even if not everyone finds all their aspirations in the outcome. The proposal contained 70 to 80 recommendations. We take decisions in the Constitutional Review Committee. Some of them have to come to the Interior Committee. Some are the responsibility of the Governance Committee. Indeed, one of the first decisions was to implement the reduction of the Speaker's allowance, which was not trivial. It would be interesting to ask the services to make available to us, as well as to the public, a cadastre covering all that has been and will be achieved, with deadlines, so that at the end of this Parliament we should not have noticed that we have forgotten or had no time to vote on any of our texts. In conclusion, we therefore approve all the texts that are subject to our approval.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u132	Mr President, I would just like to add a few words. I have indeed received today from the Registrar a summary table listing pending proposals in the Rules of Procedure Committee and in the Constitutional Review Committee. However, it is true that the table does not cover the full number of recommendations. That is why I have asked my own staff to add a little more to the overview and to ask again, I shall officially ask a question to ensure that it is also regulated on the basis of the recommendations and that we can get a second table of all this. I just want to let you know. Meanwhile, the first table has been published and passed on to the members of the Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u133	I would add that the services of the Chamber are working on what Mr. Frédéric calls the "cadastre". As soon as this cadastre is rebus sic stantibus ready, it will be transmitted to all members of the House and especially to the members of the working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u134	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the numerous scandals linked to governance, and in particular within the intercommunal Publifin, have highlighted some abusive practices. These often related excesses – it is important to remind them – to remuneration shocked the population, rightly. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that here too we have all been struck and that has clearly tarnished the image of political action as a whole. We have, quite logically, set up, as was said by the previous two speakers, a working group to drive this political renewal. Concrete reforms were needed to prevent such drifts from happening again, and we now have the opportunity to approve some of them in practice. We have worked, majority and opposition, as part of constructive collaboration. Sometimes the discussions have been lively, but they have also been intense over the past few months and have borne fruit. A few weeks ago, we adopted here in session a first part of texts specifically related to transparency and, more specifically, to declarations of mandates and heritage. Today, it is a new set of three proposals that we are happy to be able to vote on. I do not go back to the details of these proposals, since this has already been largely done by my colleague, Brecht Vermeulen. On behalf of my group, I would simply like to say that we are convinced of the positive effect of these reforms. They are likely to reinforce an important aspect for our group, namely transparency, but they will also provide greater clarity and readability for all citizens. I would also like to point out that these new rules, in a way, embody a principle of moderation which we believe is essential. Political life and public action is not the hunt for lucrative warrants and tokens of lucrative presence. It therefore seems to us that the 150 % rule is a tag clearly identifiable by and for all. That's a good signal we're sending today. Things are changing and the lines are moving. This signal will be translated into reality as soon as next year, more precisely in the next legislature. Colleagues, step by step, we are laying the foundation for another governance, for a healthier management of public affairs. However, our work will not stop with the adoption of these texts. In the weeks and months ahead, we will have to meet with the citizens. They will have to be able to explain our reforms and do pedagogy. It is, in our view, the only way to restore the confidence of the people in our democratic system to which we are all deeply attached. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u135	Mr President, the Political Renewal Working Party reached 66 conclusions which were unanimously adopted, which is of course positive. In addition to transparency on mandates and fees, there will be rules on side functions and measures to make the Chamber more transparent and resilient. However, our work is absolutely not finished. We therefore call for the recommendations to be converted into legislative proposals, changes in the regulations and decisions of the Bureau in the coming months. Then we can finish that story in the spring, a year after the start, in the same constructive atmosphere. For different conclusions, we need to make an effective effort. There has been a legal ceiling on the cumulation of public fees for a long time. This determines the maximum number of secondary posts of a public mandate of a political nature. The proposals before us include ancillary functions in boards of directors, advisory councils and management committees, which are also covered by the so-called 150 % rule. These are functions in intercommunals and legal entities in which the government is in charge. We hope to be able to move forward in the same constructive atmosphere. We will be constructive in order to quickly reach an end in the story of political renewal, with a lot of changes to the regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u136	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in line with most of the interventions of my predecessors, our group also expresses its support for this legislative proposal, one of the fruits of the Working Party on Political Renewal. This group has achieved a number of successes and progress, but there is still a lot on the menu for future work. The present proposal is good and important, but in fact it was also somewhat evident. There was already a wage ceiling of 150 % and this will now be applied better and more generally. I would therefore like once again to express our support for this, but at the same time I would stress that this was actually the obvious thing. I would also like to say that, as far as we are concerned, the measure could have gone straight into effect. In view of the obvious, this measure could be implemented immediately. Allow me to say that I find it difficult to understand the resistance to this. Apparently that was very difficult for a number of colleagues to digest, whereas it is actually the logic itself. I would remind you of this, Mr President, because colleagues on other professions sometimes make clear and far-reaching proposals which must be implemented immediately, while they seem to show a little more restraint for themselves. This is a good measure. It is also an obvious measure. Finally, I share Mr Frédéric's concern about the roll-out of our conclusions. I am also looking at you, Mr President. Making the summary table available is not an unnecessary luxury. We have made quite a few recommendations. I believe that it would be a good ambition to implement fully, or almost completely, for the recess. I am thinking, among other things, of the reform of the right of petition and of other things that still need to be approved. I would like to have that summary table here quickly, so that we can see with the various groups how we can speed things up, or rather, no longer slow them down. Our group will now vote in favour of this, as we want to see the political spirit and regard such reforms as important.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u137	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at this time last year we concluded the work of our working party on Political Renewal with a number of recommendations. Mr Vermeulen, I can now hear you say that, with the services, you have drawn up an overview which has been checked by the staff. I also hear that this has already been distributed to the members of the Committee on the Interior. But maybe I misunderstood? It would be nice if all the members of the Working Party on Political Renewal, including the small groups that were present, could get this overview. I believe that the present proposal for political renewal is a good one. We must achieve a fairer policy. We need to ensure greater transparency, especially when it comes to fees. I must say that I can agree with Mr Calvo that it would have been better if we had put these measures into effect immediately. There has, I believe, been a consensus that this will happen after the next renewal of this Chamber. I agree with the first proposal, the proposal for the entry into force of the new Rules of Procedure for the Chamber, but I do not understand the timing of the entry into force of the Länder. If the regulation comes into force immediately, everyone will be covered from today on, which is the best option. For the Court, the reasoning is logical to apply the rules from the moment the composition of the Chamber is renewed. However, the authors of the proposals assume that this applies at the same time in the German-speaking Community and in the other Länder. We have also made this point in connection with a proposal which is now before us in the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution. I can understand that the majority does not agree with immediate entry into force, but the other two proposals linked to them, in particular the special law and the proposal concerning the German-speaking Community, must enter into force at the time of the renewal of the composition of the respective Land Parliaments. Members of the Chamber will be given the opportunity to work under the existing system until the new composition of the Chamber. Why does this not apply to the Länder to a similar extent? Based on this afternoon's debates, I am not quite sure whether the Chamber will be singing the song in its current composition until 2019. Last week there were questions here about the retention of ministers. It is therefore perfectly possible that the composition of the Chamber will be renewed much earlier. That is why I am calling for the Land Parliaments to enter into force at a different time. I would also like to point out that we are actually interfering with the Länder through the proposals before us. In principle, the last two proposals would not have to be in front of them at all. We should actually transfer powers of decision on such matters to the Länder in the context of constitutional autonomy. Apparently, we're not ready for that yet. In any case, we have tabled amendments to regulate the entry into force. I have seen that a colleague has tabled an amendment to transfer the right of self-determination to the Länder, and I believe that this should apply to all the Länder. I hope that we can find support for these adjustments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u138	Mr President, the previous speaker has already referred to it and I can also refer to the constructive cooperation in the Working Party on Political Renewal. I have already heard the chairman say in the Rules of Procedure committee that there was a proportional distribution between all the groups for the proposals to be submitted on which consensus was then reached. Well, the previous speaker was right to point out that the small groups are always overlooked. As far as these proposals are concerned, of course we agree on the substance of the matter. You know this from the debates we held on this subject. We will certainly support the limitation of the accumulation of public fees. However, I have the same remark as the previous speaker. Our assembly does not have to play the stepmother of the parliament. It is up to them to work out a similar, equally good arrangement and it is not up to us to impose it on them. That is why I have tabled an amendment to that effect in order to break the Belgian tradition of imposing a regulation on the Länder as a mother-in-law. That can also be arranged differently. Let the Länder decide for themselves what their elected representatives wish to see imposed or not. We want to give the Länder the widest possible autonomy with regard to their own operation and the statute of their members, including the cumulation of public fees, as laid down in these proposals. I have tabled an amendment aimed at allowing Flanders to decide on this autonomously, and I am counting on your support for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot say that these proposals go in the wrong direction, but they do not go far enough. As I explained to the Political Renewal Working Group, the PTB defends a political income model that I will call model 1, 2, 3 linked to the Belgian median wage. A wage equal to once the median wage is the rule that the elected members of the PTB apply to themselves. The people's PTB elected representatives must live like the people, and we think that when you don't live as you think, you end up thinking as you live. Twice the median salary is the parliamentary allowance that we offer to members of the House of Representatives. That's about half the current pay. We also propose the elimination of non-taxable payments. It is, however, higher than if we respected the Constitution! As you may be aware, article 66 of the Constitution provides members of the House of Representatives with an annual allowance of 12,000 francs. With it and even taking into account inflation, we are still well below it. Three times the median wage is the maximum limit we claim for all the political men and women in this country, all functions combined (minister, special functions, etc.) Compared to the 150 % of the proposal, we are half of it. Another difference in our proposal is the ceiling which also takes account of any private remuneration of the beneficiary. We have tabled an amendment introducing the ceiling of "three times the median wage". I fear that the amendment will not be very successful in the House, which should justify our abstention. I fear him in particular by reference to the words of Louis Michel last year, something quite noticed. I will refresh your memory by quoting it to you: "Limit the parliamentarian to a paid term of 4,800 euros net per month? You will get a Parliament cut off from reality, populated by civil servants and teachers and deserted by the business world and lawyers." I think that this contempt for the people is quite significant in the gap between the political class and the population. But, of course, when a policy of austerity is pursued, it is easier to make workers pay while having a far higher wage than the average of employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u140	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u141	We begin by discussing the articles of the Bill No. 2811. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2811/6) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2811. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2811/6) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u142	• 8 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (2811/7) Annex V.Part • 7 - Veerle Wouters cs (2811/7) • 6 - Olivier Maingain cs (2811/7) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u143	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Articles 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u144	Adopted: Article 1. Adopted: Article 1. ****** We begin by discussing the articles of the Bill No. 2813. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2813/7) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2813. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2813/7) The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee to "draft law amending the Law of 31 December 1983 on the reform of the institutions of the German-speaking Community as regards the cumulation of public fees." The Court of Justice of the European Communities referred to the Court of First Instance for a preliminary ruling a question on the interpretation of Articles 85 and 86 of the EC Treaty (now, after amendment, Articles 85 and 86 of the EC Treaty). The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u145	• 7 - Veerle Wouters cs (2813/8) • 6 - Olivier Maingain cs (2813/8) • 8 - Veerle Wouters cs (2813/8) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion: Conclusion of the discussion of the articles: Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Article 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u146	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u147	****** We begin by discussing the articles of the proposal of special Law No. 2812. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2812/5) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Special Bill No. 2812. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2812/5) The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee to "proposal for a special law amending the special law for the reform of the institutions of 8 August 1980 as regards the cumulation of public fees." The Court of Justice of the European Communities referred to the Court of First Instance for a preliminary ruling a question on the interpretation of Articles 85 and 86 of the EC Treaty (now, after amendment, Articles 85 and 86 of the EC Treaty). The proposal of special law consists of 3 articles. The proposal for a special law has 3 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u148	• 5 - Barbara Pas (2812/6) Annex V.Part • 7 - Veerle Wouters cs (2812/6) • 6 - Olivier Maingain cs (2812/6) • 8 - Veerle Wouters cs (2812/6) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u149	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Articles 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u150	Adopted: Article 1. Adopted: Article 1. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u151	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, and with the exception of proposal No. 3130/1 by Mr Peter De Roover, who postpones his request for consideration, I consider it adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject and with the exception of proposal No 3130/1 by Mr De Roover, which calls for the postponement of the request to take account of his proposal, I shall consider it to be taken into account and refer the proposals to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u152	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on pleasure boating, No. 3105/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the draft law on pleasure boating, No. 3105/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u153	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the legislation is based on three pillars: administrative simplification for the authority and the citizen, empowerment of the citizen, increased security. Some of the most important problems that prevent growth are eliminated, such as accepting super yachts under the Belgian flag, a single registration system unlimited in time and the establishment of a system where traders know how to work quickly. Furthermore, the necessary measures are taken to ensure a level playing field between Belgian and foreign entrepreneurs operating in Belgium. We ask that the urgent procedure be used for the following reasons: the part of the law which must regularise the problem STCW (Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers – International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers) should enter into force, preferably for this summer, in order to deal with the legal uncertainty for commercial boaters, but also to ensure that the competitive position of the Belgian boating industry can speed up entry under the flag of large pleasure craft.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u154	Mr. Chairman, if I am not mistaken, but I am going to speak under the control of the commissioners of the Infrastructure Commission, this bill was passed on Tuesday unanimously. So, if you want, he can come to the plenary next week. This is no problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u155	Mrs Lalieux, this does not seem to prevent us from asking for urgency. And so, if we insist, and I think it would be wise... Nevertheless, I must ask that those who support urgency stand up now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u156	Vote on Amendment No 180 by Christian Brotcorne on Article 4. (2919/12) Vote on Amendment No. 180 by Christian Brotcorne to Article 4. (2919/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 51 Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 130 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 4-18 was adopted. The whole of Article 4 has been adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 4-18 was adopted. Article 4 as a whole was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 177 by Olivier Maingain on Article 218. (2919/12) Vote on Amendment No 177 by Olivier Maingain to Rule 218. (2919/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 44 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 178 by Olivier Maingain on Article 218. (2919/12) Vote on Amendment No 178 by Olivier Maingain to Rule 218. (2919/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 50 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 218 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 218 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 179 by Olivier Maingain on Article 225. (2919/12) Vote on Amendment No 179 by Olivier Maingain to Rule 225. (2919/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u157	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 225 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 225 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u158	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u159	Mr President, I have agreed with Mr Koenraad Degroote a pairing agreement. I shall therefore abstain from this item and from all items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u160	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 86 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 47 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2919/13) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2919/13) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u161	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (3138/1) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (3138/1) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u162	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1895/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1895/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u163	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3061/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3061/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u164	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u165	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that our work in committee has led to a unanimous question about the change of time. Applyed for more than forty years in our country, codified at European level by the directive of 19 January 2001, the change of time did not lack legitimacy in its beginnings, whereas today its effectiveness raises real questions in view of the technological, social, cultural and human developments of our societies. The negative externalities of the system are proliferating in many parts of society: from road safety to the practice of breeding, from sleep disorders to the risk of cardiovascular accidents, to complications in international transport and telecommunications, the effects that are deemed to be harmful are no longer taken into account. Conversely, the benefits of the change of time are less and less supported. In 2012, the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy acknowledged that almost all of the studies involved weak energy measurement. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u166	No, it's not serious! Mr. Calomne is entitled to two minutes. He didn't even talk for a minute. Mr Calomne, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u167	Mr President, thank you. If I can use the minute twenty I have left, I promise you to meet the deadline. Just over a year ago, Minister Marghem confirmed this situation, noting in particular the negative effects on young children and some adults. Don't be displeased by anyone, our country is not an island. This debate also drives our partners, such as Finland and Lithuania, as well as the European bodies. In this connection, in February, the European Parliament adopted by an overwhelming majority a resolution calling on the European Commission to evaluate the system, which could, if necessary, lead to the abolition of the change of time. [[Brouhahaha]] I thank my colleagues for their elegance... [[Applause]] If I can speak, I will give all the necessary explanations. It has been a coincidence that this motion for a resolution has been tabled in Parliament a few months earlier. It certainly shares the philosophy behind MEPs' approach. Indeed, it aspires to the same objectives, since it calls on our Government to support a debate without exclusive or taboo at European level, with a view to assessing the time-change mechanism and abrogating it if it proves to be superfluous and counterproductive. Some States have crossed the course of abolition this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u168	Colleagues, a little respect!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u169	These include Russia, China, South Africa, Argentina and, in 2016, Turkey – more than sixty-five states. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u170	Colleagues, this is not serious!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u171	Mr President, I can start all over again if colleagues wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u172	We have the right to an explanation of vote. Let's hear Mr. Calomne.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u173	Mr President, thank you. In total, more than 77 per cent of the world's population do not know this system or more. On the other hand, 76 countries, 28 of which are members of the European Union, are still members to date. For or against, it is therefore necessary to decide with discernment and on the basis of objective data. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution does not prejudge the final fate of the change of time, and I stress this point. It calls for its prior assessment at the most appropriate level, namely that of the European institutions. For the sake of consistency, with my colleague Maya Detiège, we will table in the coming days a similar text in the Benelux Inter-Parliamentary Assembly to support this approach. In conclusion, I hope that this proposal will obtain a largely positive vote. In the absence of wide-ranging debates, it has given rise to an animation in this chamber! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u174	Mr President, a short justification for voting: I will abstain because I have agreed to pair with the talking clock! [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u175	Mr President, as the banks of the government are empty, I suggest that our colleague Calomne resume his intervention as soon as a member of the government is present!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u176	Mr President, it is time to stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u177	Mr. Speaker, I must deplore the absence of government officials when we still have a number of bills on the Orders of the Day. And so, Mr. Chairman, I would like you to send a signal to the government so that it can ensure its presence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u178	Mr President, a word to reassure our colleagues: Mr Ducrame is coming and I would just like to make it clear that I misled him myself by telling him that the votes were over. I take full responsibility for his absence and would like to reassure Mr. Laaouej. The minister will be here very quickly and I will get reprimanded!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u179	We can continue. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (2782/8) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (2782/8) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u180	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2340/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2340/7) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u181	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3039/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3039/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u182	Mr. Speaker, we are voting on a bill preceded by a bill. I would like to note the absence of government officials. It's not about creating a precedent! I find this disrespectful of Parliament. Perhaps Mr. Ducrame anticipated the change of time? I don't know, but he's not here to attend our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u183	We're taking note. He's here!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u184	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 130 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3057/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3057/4) Mr Michel de Lamotte voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u185	Vote on Amendment No 8 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on article 2. (2811/7) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 2. (2811/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. 132 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Veerle Wouters cs to omit Article 3. (2811/7) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Veerle Wouters cs to delete Article 3. (2811/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 5 Yes No. 122 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Olivier Maingain cs on Article 3. (2811/7) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Olivier Maingain cs to Article 3. (2811/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[55]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u186	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be sent to the Senate as a bill. (2811/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be referred as a bill to the Senate. (2811/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u187	Vote on Amendment No 7 by Veerle Wouters cs to omit Article 3. (2813/8) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Veerle Wouters cs to delete Article 3. (2813/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 5 Yes No. 125 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Olivier Maingain cs on Article 3. (2813/8) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Olivier Maingain cs to Article 3. (2813/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes [[55]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Veerle Wouters cs on Article 3. (2813/8) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Veerle Wouters cs to Article 3. (2813/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 5 Yes No. 126 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u188	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be sent to the Senate as a bill. (2813/9) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be referred as a bill to the Senate. (2813/9) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u189	In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, the provisions and the whole of the proposal of special law must be adopted by a majority of the votes cast in each language group, provided that the majority of the members of each language group are present and that the total of the yes votes cast in both language groups reaches two thirds of the votes cast. In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, the provisions and the draft special law as a whole must be adopted by a majority of the votes cast in each language group, provided that a majority of the members of each group are present and that the total number of positive votes cast in both language groups reaches two thirds of the votes cast. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Barbara Beware of Article 2. (2812/6) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Barbara Not to Article 2. (2812/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) F I'll see you later. N Yes 0 5 5 Yes Non 54 129 75 No. Abstensions 1 1 0 Abstentions Total 55 135 80 Total The majority of votes in each language group are not reached. The quorum of the presences in each linguistic group is reached. A majority of 2/3 of the votes shall not be cast. The majority of the votes in each language group have not been reached. The majority of those present in each language group have been reached. The 2/3 majority of the votes have not been reached. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Veerle Wouters cs to omit Article 3. (2812/6) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Veerle Wouters cs to delete Article 3. (2812/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) F I'll see you later. N Yes 0 5 5 Yes Non 52 127 75 No. Abstensions 3 3 0 Abstentions Total 55 135 80 Total The majority of votes in each language group are not reached. The quorum of the presences in each linguistic group is reached. A majority of 2/3 of the votes shall not be cast. The majority of the votes in each language group have not been reached. The majority of those present in each language group have been reached. The 2/3 majority of the votes have not been reached. The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Olivier Maingain cs on Article 3. (2812/6) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Olivier Maingain cs to Article 3. (2812/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) F I'll see you later. N Yes 34 55 21 Yes Non 20 79 59 No. Abstensions 1 1 0 Abstentions Total 55 135 80 Total The majority of votes in each language group are not reached. The quorum of the presences in each linguistic group is reached. A majority of 2/3 of the votes shall not be cast. The majority of the votes in each language group have not been reached. The majority of those present in each language group have been reached. The 2/3 majority of the votes have not been reached. The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Veerle Wouters cs on Article 3. (2812/6) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Veerle Wouters cs to Article 3. (2812/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) F I'll see you later. N Yes 0 5 5 Yes Non 52 127 75 No. Abstensions 3 3 0 Abstentions Total 55 135 80 Total The majority of votes in each language group are not reached. The quorum of the presences in each linguistic group is reached. A majority of 2/3 of the votes shall not be cast. The majority of the votes in each language group have not been reached. The majority of those present in each language group have been reached. The 2/3 majority of the votes have not been reached. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u190	In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, the provisions and the draft special law as a whole must be adopted by a majority of the votes cast in each language group, provided that a majority of the members of each group are present and that the total number of positive votes cast in both language groups reaches two thirds of the votes cast. In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, the provisions and the whole of the proposal of special law must be adopted by a majority of the votes cast in each language group, provided that the majority of the members of each language group are present and that the total of the yes votes cast in both language groups reaches two thirds of the votes cast. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) F I'll see you later. N Yes 52 132 80 Yes Non 0 0 0 No. Abstensions 3 3 0 Abstentions Total 55 135 80 Total The majority of votes in each language group are cast. The quorum of the presences in each linguistic group is reached. A majority of 2/3 of the votes shall be cast. Accordingly, the House adopts the special bill. It will be passed on as a special bill to the Senate. (2812/7) The majority of the votes cast in each language group have been reached. The majority of those present in each language group have been reached. The 2/3 majority of the votes have been reached. Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of special law. It will be sent to the Senate as a draft special law. (2812/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-07-54-plenair-ip232x.u191	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 14 June 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 14 June 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 14 June 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting on Thursday, 14 June 2018, at 2.15 p.m.
