ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u1	Mr President, Secretary of State, your reply to a written question dated 8 December 2016 showed that the number of residence permits withdrawn for family reunifications has exploded. From 1 080 in 2012 over 1 020 in 2013 and 687 in 2014 to 533 in 2015 and even only 391 in 2016. However, your policy letter last year stated: "There will also be more and thorough monitoring of compliance with the conditions for the renewal of these residence permits. The conditions, which must be met in order to obtain family reunification, also apply in the context of an extension of this Title. If this is not the case, the right of residence may be terminated." How do you explain this evolution? What else will you do?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is becoming increasingly difficult to withdraw a residence permit, on the one hand, because of the DVD's obligation to examine the duration of the stay, the degree of integration and the socio-economic and cultural links of the alien and, on the other hand, because of the foreigner's right to hear. In addition, there is a very strict case law of the Council on Aliens' Contests. It should also be noted that not everyone, such as those who have reunited with Union citizens, should have their residence card renewed annually with the municipality, so that in these cases there is less control over the fulfilment of the conditions. Therefore, as explained in my policy paper, I would like to make a number of legislative changes to the rules on family reunification, so that the abuses can be better detected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u3	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, recently you decided not to renew the residence permit of the Imam of the Great Mosque in Brussels. Indeed, it appears that important information from the State Security was directed against that person. An order to leave the territory (OQT) had then been issued. However, the Foreign Litigation Council (CCE) has cancelled this OQT. Could you therefore remind us on what arguments you have decided not to renew the residence permit of this imam? What are the reasons for the decision to annul the EAC? What is the status of the appeal procedure against the annulment decision and its timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u4	Mr President, my colleague, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. 1. The person concerned was allowed to stay in Belgium for a limited period of time. "Do not commit acts contrary to public order" was one of the conditions for the renewal of this residence permit. According to a note by the State Security Service, the person concerned does not adhere to the values of the rule of law, including equality and living together, and spreads a Salafist/Wahhabi version of Islam. He thus advocated a community-based approach to society, a proselyte and omnipresent vision of Islam and a retrograde conception of gender equality. I felt that the positions defended by the person concerned could jeopardize public order and undermine the work of imams working in favour of a society that would respect peaceful coexistence between Muslims and non-Muslims. 2. The CEC considers that the decision was not adequately reasoned in that it states that the person concerned is in jeopardy of public policy, without indicating how his personal conduct constitutes "a present, real and sufficiently serious threat affecting a fundamental interest of society". 3. The EAC delivered its judgment on 24 November 2017. He was notified to the Office of Foreigners on 28 November and I instructed him to file an appeal in cassation with the Council of State on 29 November. Right now, I can't tell you any more. We are indeed awaiting news from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u5	Mr President, I thank the Secretary of State. I cannot go any further in the absence of more precise information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u6	Mr President, this question was tabled some time ago. It concerns the difficult situation, particularly at the Gare du Nord station, as well as the difficulties encountered on the ground in taking over by the Office of Foreigners of persons illegally present in the territory and requiring identification or even arrest, in compliance with the regulations in force. Secretary of State, how many illegals were arrested by the police between 2015 and the first half of 2017? What were their nationalities? What was the proportion of minors and women? Among those arrested, how many were taken care of by the Foreigners' services? Under what procedures is the staff of the Office of Foreigners contacted by the police services? Finally, how many orders to leave the Territory were issued under these procedures?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u7	Mr Pivin, with regard to figures, I could refer to Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure. Nevertheless, I will hand them over to you without going through them because they are very numerous. For 2017, there is only the first semester. It's still too early for the second semester. Many administrative reports deal with transitional migrants – thousands a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u8	I am not going to abuse the time devoted to this committee. Given the number of questions, I accept the proposal. However, I would like to ask you whether, in view of the figures I will be aware of and the situations, you consider it appropriate to amend the procedures in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u9	It is important to have fewer orders to leave the territory. It's in our government agreement. I have taken steps to that end. With regard to the phenomenon of transitional migration, the only option would be to increase controls at the external borders of the Schengen area. I know that Italy, France and Austria are making a lot of efforts. But it seems that people can still move on in order to join England, for example. This phenomenon has never been so intense in 30 years of asylum policy in Belgium. This gives rise to many discussions on this issue in France, the Netherlands and, above all, Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u10	Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u11	Mr President, Secretary of State, at the Bonn climate summit under the chairmanship of New Zealand, New Zealand asked for a special status for climate refugees. Earlier, a majority resolution was adopted in the Chamber on Belgium's priorities at the Paris Climate Conference in December 2015. This resolution also calls for recognition of the status of climate refugees. Firstly, does Belgium agree with the position of New Zealand? Secondly, what is the Belgian position? Thirdly, has there been an intra-Belgian consultation on this? Is that still running? Fourthly, what is your position? Fifthly, should, for example, residents of disappearing islands be eligible for resettlement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u12	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, this problem is extremely important, but at the same time very complex. It is undoubtedly the greatest challenge for all of us, for the whole world. First of all, this requires a global approach. Personally, I am not in favour of introducing the status of climate refugees. There is already a very comprehensive framework for international protection through the Geneva Convention and European legislation, including subsidiary protection. Many of the situations often indirectly related to climate change can already be covered by the application of these international and European regulations. The introduction of a specific status for climate refugees does not seem appropriate. Belgian or European initiatives specifically aimed at the resettlement of so-called climate refugees are not currently being discussed. With millions of war refugees in the EU's neighbouring countries, the priorities for resettlement for the European Union are currently elsewhere in the resettlement of war refugees. There are already a lot of them nearby, so I am not immediately in favour of having climate refugees from the Pacific fly here, if that is the question. I don't intend to. We are faced with enough challenges in the Middle East and the Middle East, to say the least, when it comes to resettlement. I am therefore not in favour of the status of climate refugees. Much is already possible and many people are already asking and are already finding asylum in Europe indirectly because of climate change, demographics and all that comes out of it in second and third order.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, for the record, I am not immediately in favour of relocating people from New Zealand here. We have to think in the long run. If you say that this matter is indirectly included in international legislation, then perhaps we will have to make it more explicit or link it, so that climate refugees do not de facto fall out of the boat and opportunities are created. We need to start thinking about this now, so that we do not have to take decisions on an ad hoc basis later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, in a communication from the European Commission on the European Agenda on Migration, it is stated that people want to think only to think, to be clear about private sponsorship. The Commission invites Member States to participate in project 31 on "private sponsorship schemes with interested Member States." It does so because it is noted that quite a few civil organisations, or citizens' initiatives, and international organisations, possibly linked to private sponsors, want to assume their responsibilities. I have also advocated in plenary that this should be regulated, and in particular clarity and transparency. The European Commission therefore intends, through the EASO with interested Member States, to launch a pilot project on resettlement through private sponsorship. In Belgium there were also some projects, but especially ad hoc and rather random. I do not wish to say anything against this, but I only ask for transparency and clarity. Hence my next questions. Is Belgium interested in participating in pilot project 31? Will it run for office or has it already happened? Under what conditions? Will Belgium, apart from that pilot project, take steps to set up a system of private sponsorship? Under what conditions? By when?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u15	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, at the moment there is not much concrete information available on this pilot project. Belgium is certainly open to participating in discussions on the development of a possible pilot project for private sponsorship. Our country has not waited for a European initiative in this regard. A first pilot project for private sponsorship was launched on 22 November. It is a so-called humanitarian corridor for Syrian refugees. This project is drawn by Sant'Egidio, but the agreement was signed by all representatives of the recognized religions in Belgium. This project will bring 150 Syrian refugees to Belgium. The partners involved committed themselves to receive and accompany the 150 refugees for at least one year. An evaluation will then be carried out. So we have not waited for Europe, but we are the pioneers. We are open to a debate, but not much concrete progress has yet been made from the European Commission. I am leaving next week for Bulgaria, which will be the new President of the European Union for the next six months. There is a whole debate on migration compacts and a number of debates on asylum and still on the Dublin regime. I will certainly look into that pilot project in the margins of that three-day conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u16	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. Sant'Egidio's project is indeed a project on granting humanitarian visas to certain target groups and with certain players. You say very clearly that all these organisations have a religious background. That is absolutely not a problem for me, but I do hear some criticism from organisations with other beliefs. We will therefore have to clarify this, because I believe that there could be problems of this kind in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u17	Mrs Fernandez, Mr Hellings sits on another committee, but he will soon be joining us. In the meantime, can we address another issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u18	Mr President, of course, because the subject is important enough for all my colleagues to be present and to be able to intervene. However, at some point I will also have to be absent to attend another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u19	We will then deal with only one question from Mrs De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u20	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u21	Mr President, fortunately there are still Members of Parliament on time, despite long nights. Mr Secretary of State, UNHCR and IOM rang the alarm about the appalling circumstances that an estimated 43 000 refugees in Libyan detention camps are indeed not refugee camps, but prison camps. Torture, trafficking, exploitation, starvation and rape are commonplace. The international human rights organisations should not even talk to the refugees. We have heard testimonies about this. I can assure you that even international human rights organisations, which are very honest, are having a very difficult time. Europe and the European Member States are being looked at for the resettlement of a quota of refugees and the development of sustainable solutions. Can Belgium play a role at the European level to help develop a solution to the refugee problem in Libya? How can we take that part? Can Belgium resettle a contingent of refugees to reduce pressure in detention camps? Does Belgium support human rights organisations and Doctors Without Borders to gain free and secure access to detention camps? How does Belgium intend to enforce this requirement? There was a hearing in Parliament at which a number of European and international organisations came to speak. Those weren't the first of the best experts. It is clear that there is a great deal of fear, including among international organisations, about the seriousness of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u22	Belgium, together with other Member States, is in favour of an effective European global approach to the issue of migration via Libya. A comprehensive approach with measures addressing the root causes of migration to measures for effective border control at the external borders is indeed essential. Belgium supports the Commission's approach to assisting refugees in Libya by providing medical and other support, in cooperation with UNHCR, UNICEF and IOM. It is also important that migrants who wish to return voluntarily to their country of origin can do so. Only in 2017 did more than 19 000 migrants voluntarily return to Libya. Tackling smugglers is also crucial. The holistic European approach is making progress. The number of drowning deaths is decreasing and several smuggling gangs have already been arrested with EU support. This global approach also requires small-scale resettlement of certain vulnerable refugees. In September 2017, the European Commission called on Member States to offer 50 000 relocations in the period up to the end of October 2019, with the focus on Syrian refugees as well as on stabilising the situation on the Central Mediterranean route. The European Commission also calls for relocations for vulnerable persons in need of international protection in Libya, Niger, Chad, Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan. In concrete terms, an emergency mechanism is being developed for Libya, which provides for an evacuation of the most vulnerable refugees in Libya to countries such as Niger. They may then be re-established in an EU country. France carried out a pilot project to that effect in November 2017. The results will be shared with the other Member States in the short term. Belgium responded to the European Commission's call for the resettlement of 50 000 refugees. It has offered 2 000 places. There are 87 places for vulnerable refugees on the Central Mediterranean route. This number can still be adjusted according to the new developments and experience of other Member States. Belgium is therefore making major resettlement efforts and is doing more than its share. In principle, our country remains in favour of resettlement from the region of origin rather than from transit countries. You'll understand. We are in favour of this in order to avoid encouraging refugees to take the dangerous journey to a transit country such as Libya. Apart from the more than 3 300 drowning deaths last year and the more than 5 000 drowning deaths in 2016, there is the dark number of deaths in the Sahara and the Sahel at the crossing they have to make. There are no figures on that. Several international reports calculate that there are very large numbers in this area as well. With regard to resettlement from transit countries, we must ensure that we encourage refugees to flee to Libya to be resettled from there. I am absolutely not in favour of such encouragements. I know that some argue for that, but that is not my opinion. Instead, it would be better to relocate from the countries of origin, either from the countries in which they were received after their flight away from the conflict of war, for example in Lebanon, Jordan or Turkey. In Libya, the situation is extremely precarious and acute in humanitarian terms. It is therefore possible to re-establish it from there. I can largely go along with it. Nevertheless, we must beware of unwanted side effects, resulting in even more misery in the Sahara. Belgium supports the European Union's policy in Libya, which aims to reduce migratory pressure on that country and to reduce regular migration towards Italy and Europe. It is important to prevent migrants from their region of origin from making the dangerous journey to countries such as Libya. This is done through a long-term approach aimed at the root causes of migration but also through, for example, a more effective return policy and information campaigns. In addition, the European Union is strongly committed to protecting the most vulnerable refugees in Libya through resettlement but also through the provision of financial support. For example, the European Union has recently released nearly EUR 200 million to protect vulnerable migrants at the entry points and in detention centres. Last week, German Chancellor Angela Merkel urged the Libyan authorities to improve the living conditions of migrants in detention and access for international aid organisations. The Belgian Government and myself, of course, support this appeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u23	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. My main concern is that last week it was also expressed in the media a few times that Europe ultimately gives money to smugglers to stop the refugees in Libya. This means that we are actually being blackmailed: if no money is given, the limits will be opened up. For the sake of clarity, it is always easy to transfer the whole dossier to Europe. Nevertheless, I am convinced that all the Member States in Europe have a responsibility. Above all, we must be careful not to support the mafia in another country, directly or indirectly, through European policy. Belgium is quite critical and wants to work with a focus. I therefore believe that we should play our part in this at European level. If the German Chancellor gave that signal, she wouldn't have just done so. With the Benelux countries, Germany and possibly a number of other countries such as France, we need to make an efficient policy on the ground possible. If human dignity is compromised, there are other ways that we need to step in. Even if we are a small country, we have to do what we have to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u24	Mr President, Secretary of State, this 6th of December, early in the morning, twenty federal police officers entered the open centre for asylum seekers in Jodoigne to take a Chechen family to a military plane chartered for Poland. Both parents and their eight children had fled from Russia to Poland where they applied for asylum, which is why your services planned to apply the so-called Dublin procedure. Things seem to have derailed when the escort officers found that a child was missing at the call; he spent the night with another family. The federal police decided to board seven children and the father and leave the mother at the centre open. The father explained that he was out of the question that he would leave without his wife and one of his children. Six policemen then obstructed his arms and legs, put on a helmet and "carried like a sausage" in the police van, all in front of his children's dazzled eyes. A worker from Fedasil, a witness to the scene, said in the press that he had never seen the deployment of such violence. Secretary of State, could you please explain to me the content of the detailed report requested by the Prime Minister on this subject? As we know, the Prime Minister is also prevented from Wavre and son of the former mayor of Jodoigne. Could you please explain to me what guidelines your services have set for carrying out such evictions? I know you don't have guardianship over the police, but the Fedasil centers fall under your jurisdiction. Is it intended that a family should always be assembled before this kind of expulsion into the family? Are there specific procedures for the use of violence in this context? Have these procedures been followed in this case, according to a report commissioned by the Prime Minister? Finally, was this family finally expelled? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u25	Mr Franken, as my colleague has just pointed out, on Wednesday morning, 6 December, your services organised the expulsion of a Russian Chechen family from the Fedasil centre in Jodoigne. The violence of this attempt by the 20 or so federal police officers present at the scene shocked both the staff of the centre and the local police officers present at the site and until the mayor, depending on the commune of Jodoigne. It is in itself an unacceptable situation, even in the eyes of all those who believe that a migration policy must be firm and humane. It must not make matters related to the procedure itself forgotten. Indeed, according to the testimonies, it appears that the children, for some barely clothed, were taken in with their father, himself being the subject of constraints, while the mother remained in the centre waiting for the return of one of the daughters of the family who spent the night with one of her classmates, proof if necessary, of its integration. Mr Franken, my questions are as numerous as they are necessary in view of this event, which once again tarnishes the image of this government. In this otherwise aborted attempt, who was in charge of issuing orders and making operational decisions? Was it the agent of the Office of Foreigners? Was he a police officer? In the event that it was not the officer of your administration who was in charge of the management of operations, did he object to the separation of the family? Is he opposed to the disproportionate use of force and coercion in the eyes of the children of the family concerned during the attempt to expel? If not, how do you justify the choice of family separation, a practice which constitutes a disproportionate infringement of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which is not without reference to the recent jurisprudence of the Council of State, in its judgment No. 234 577 of 28 April 2016? On what legal basis was the decision on the separation of this family taken and under what authority? Moreover, it appears that the return flight was to take off from the Melsbroek military airport. Can you tell me what is the status of the flight that was to be used for the removal of this family? Which company does this aircraft belong to? Finally, what is the situation at the Fedasil centre in Jodoigne? What is today the state of mind of the employees of this centre who seem to have been strongly shocked by what they have seen? What is the situation of the family concerned? Have children in particular been assisted or cared for as a result of these traumatic treatments? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u26	Mr Van Hees is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u27	Mr President, for the record, I should like to say that I have to leave around 12:15, because I have another appointment. Honourable members, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. First of all, however, I understood that questions on the same subject were also addressed to Mr Jambon. That is why I may repeat some of the answers. A wide range of guidance has been provided to appeal to the ten members of the family. It included a doctor, two members of the social and psychological support team, twelve escorts and a police commissioner. The Agency, for its part, was represented by two persons, as was the IGA (General Inspectorate of Police Services), which had mandated two observers. This inquiry concerned a family that was to be handed over to the Polish authorities under the Dublin procedure. She had been informed in advance that if she refused a voluntary return, she would be forcibly repatriated. Local police were not present in the centre, but remained outside to provide support if necessary. The representatives of the Office of Foreigners on the spot are responsible for the administrative aspect of the measure. Where a family is not fully reunited on its own initiative, removal may be continued. If a minor is involved, one of the parents will not be expelled in order not to leave the child alone. Article 8 of the ECHR is respected since the choice of the family itself has been to be separated. The Agency decided that the seven children present should leave with their father, their mother remaining there pending the return of the missing girl. The Federal Police is solely responsible for the operational aspect. In this case, it is the Zaventem aviation police that fulfils this mission. The unit in question is the only one equipped with a bus for this purpose. Agents are trained to carry out this task, which they perform with all the required professionalism. The two youngest children were taken to the bus by members of the ESSP (Social and Psychological Support Team). They could have played it on a tablet. The social assistants stood in front, and specialize in the framework of the children. Social workers are specialized in this field. The mother was asked to contact the girl who, according to the director of the centre, was still present the day before. The family had long known that forced removal would be organized in Poland (cf. Dublin Regulation) since it had not complied with the request for voluntary return. The mother totally refused to cooperate with the girl. However, in order to make it possible to leave in full, the departure was postponed. Throughout the operation, parents and other children knew where the girl was or could at least contact her. Special flights organised by Belgium are usually carried out with a defence aircraft when this is the most economical solution. The costs are borne by Belgium or Frontex. Under no circumstances is it a military operation and the aircraft used is also used for other civilian missions and government missions. With regard to the use of coercion, the Federal Police is subject to the legal provisions and instructions of the Minister of the Interior. In this regard, I refer to the response that Minister Jambon has already provided. As far as the Dublin dossier is concerned, the agreement has expired. We could no longer send the family back to Poland because the six-month deadline was exceeded. We were almost at the end of the six months, which is why we tried to organise a return according to the Dublin Regulation. But that turned out to be impossible. This means that the family is legally in Belgium, as part of an asylum procedure in Belgium. The family currently resides at Petit-Château, including the girl, who arrived on the day following the expiry date – on January 15. The family is therefore reunited and the asylum procedure is activated in Belgium. We will see what the decision of the CGRA will be on this family's asylum file. If not, she will not be granted asylum. The members of this family are Chechens and not all Chechens are granted asylum. They will then have an appeal. If so, they will be welcome and will be able to start their new life in Belgium, like many recognized refugees, every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u28	Mr Secretary of State, we have therefore learned the reason why this eight-member family has been forcibly returned: we will enter this six-month window period. Your services have decided to act to avoid forcing the CGRA to investigate an asylum application in Belgium. Technically, that's what you're saying, I understand that. It's interesting but also terrible, even if you could quite act like that. In the end, we have to realize that this family will apply for asylum in Belgium, which she probably wanted to do from the beginning. All these costly technical and human resources have been deployed. Indeed, the expulsion of a family is always delicate, especially when it comes to separation and, obviously, violence here. On the subject of violence, I would like to quote the mayor of Jodoigne who, on the RTBF website, said on 6 December: "I can confirm that my policemen attended the scene and were shocked." I believe that this effort is particularly disproportionate in order to avoid an asylum application being made. What is terrible in this case is that the Dublin procedure is under review. Some goodwill in the European Parliament is trying to see it again. We will see the result, but I am not very optimistic about it. Nevertheless, you have made the political choice to launch a whole series of extremely strong measures to prevent eight people from applying for asylum in Belgium. I find this particularly disproportionate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I remain surprised and dismayed because you assume that children have been victims of violence – even if they have had the "chance" to play on a tablet – and that their parents have been mistreated to prevent them from introducing an asylum procedure. It seems to me that the energy and the means deployed are exaggerated. When one learns that one of the girls was at a friend's house, it makes it possible to imagine the level of integration of this family. I cannot help but wonder – in this case as in many others – whether this energy and the means deployed should not have been exactly so that this family would fit into good conditions. I am challenged by the reality of the consent of the separation of the family and above all by the fact that it is the Agency that decides who is going with whom. I probably won't know any more. It seems to me that I did not receive an answer as to the state of mind of the agents of the centre because I think they were shocked by what they saw. This will be the subject of a next question on the supervision of State officials who are collateral victims when they witness such acts. Thank you for providing me with an answer as to the type of aircraft used: this is a Defence aircraft. I will certainly turn to your Defence colleague, who seems to say that he does not deal with this matter. But in fact, you just explained to me that he's handling it anyway. In this case, you assume your political responsibility and that is probably the only point I welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u30	To be clear, the procedures we follow are the same as those followed by previous governments and secretaries of state. I haven't changed the procedures in any way. The Dublin procedure is a long-standing European procedure. It stipulates that the State to which the application for asylum was submitted the first time is responsible for the application for asylum for a period of six months. After these six months, the country in which the applicant is located becomes responsible. When the applicant does not want to return voluntarily to the place where he first applied for asylum, a forced return is carried out. The same procedure was followed by all previous ministers, including Ms De Block and Mr Wathelet. I would like to stress this and to be very clear about it. It's important. With regard to the use of force by the police, Mr Jambon replied to several questions in the Committee on the Interior, as it concerns the police and not the Office of Foreigners. Since the six-month period was due to expire on December 23, 2017, it was normal for us to organize the return. The family has been in Belgium since 9 May 2017. Since 24 December, Belgium has been responsible for the asylum application. It will be treated correctly, as we do for any asylum application made in Belgium. On January 15, 2018, the girl joined her family at Petit-Château. To those who dispute the way in which the Dublin Rules are applied and who believe that the repatriations organised by the Defence are too costly, I would remind you that this has always been the case before. Repatriations are not with the C-130s, as was done under Mr. Tobback for returns to Somalia. We do so in a humane and correct way, even if organizing forced returns is not easy. I didn't change the method. It remains the same. In the sensitive debate on migration and especially on returns, I am trying to find a middenweg, a compromise. It's not easy. I would point out, however, that the international reports on Belgium are positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u31	Mr President, we are not going to repeat the debate. Mr Franken and I will never agree on these and other matters. Mr Secretary of State, since you are talking about the past, I am not questioning the respect of procedures, but the way in which they are respected. This creates emotion, both in me and in many of my colleagues, in a number of controversial issues. It is difficult to accept for people who do not see these files simply as numbers, but who see them as individuals and, in this case, children who have been mistreated, separated from their parents, even temporarily. I have a problem with that. Beyond the truth you're talking about, there's another one. The ministers or secretaries of state who preceded you have assumed political responsibilities. The truth today is, you don't stand up. I have no difficulty with references to the past. I'll take my share. But, while I know that memory is romantic, avoid using all the past and the political responsibilities that have been taken. As far as Defence aircraft are concerned, I will return to your colleague. I think he told me that the Defence was not involved in repatriation missions. You're saying the opposite. Parliament deserves to know the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, in its proposal for a procedural regulation, the European Commission clarifies the concept of safe country and makes its application mandatory. The notion of "safe third country" provides that an applicant for international protection could also have received that protection in another country, allowing the host State to avert the responsibility to deal with the asylum application. The notion already exists in the procedural directive in force today, but was not yet mandatory. Moreover, according to the current Directive, the level of protection must be sufficiently high, as protection must be in line with the Geneva Convention. The Commission's proposal now reduces the level of protection to substantive standards of the Geneva Convention and even to sufficient protection. Information from an ECRE report also shows that a number of Member States wish to provide this adequate level of protection as little as possible. In short, "safe third country" will evolve over time to "minimum safe third country." What is the Belgian position on this matter? Is Belgium prepared to reduce the level of protection of the Convention? Is Belgium in favour of a compulsory admissibility requirement? In other words, does Belgium want to be sent back to a safe country if, for example, there are family ties? Thank you in advance for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u33	Ms De Coninck, the concept of safe third country was introduced into European law by the first procedural directive 2005/85 of 1 December 2005. It was subsequently included in the Procedural Directive 2013/32 of 26 June 2013. It has been reinstated in the proposal for a regulation on the asylum procedure currently under negotiation at European level. Belgium has recently transposed this concept, at the last revision of the Law of 15 December 1980, which is due to enter into force at the beginning of this year. Through the concept of safe third country, Member States may decide that an application for international protection is not admissible because the applicant may obtain protection in a third country. However, it is extremely important that the third country provides at least adequate protection. In the first instance, the third country shall be evaluated to see whether it fulfils the conditions for being considered a safe third country. This designation shall be made at European and/or international level, depending on the outcome of the negotiations. In the second instance, the applicant's situation shall be analysed after a possible examination of his personal situation. It will be examined whether there is a link with this third country and whether an acquisition is possible. Negotiations are under way at the Council of the European Union on a technical level. On 5 December 2017, the Estonian Presidency completed its second reading. The proposal will be discussed further in technical terms under the Bulgarian Presidency, as you know, during the first half of this year. This will be discussed next week. Belgium supports the Commission's proposal for greater harmonisation of asylum procedures in line with international law standards. Consequently, Belgium considers that there should be sufficient protection in the safe third country to the extent that such protection is real. Protection should at least guarantee the essential rights enshrined in the Geneva Convention. At the European Council on 22 and 23 June, the European Heads of State or Government, including Prime Minister Michel, underlined the importance of the concept of safe third country for the future European asylum policy. On this occasion, the European Council invited the Commission to come forward with new text proposals to bring the concept into line with the effective requirements of the Geneva Convention and EU primary law. The more extensive application of the concept of safe third country should strengthen cooperation with third countries and help to avoid new crises. The Commission has presented a proposal for a European regulation to legislate in order to harmonise national procedures. By definition, a regulation is immediately applicable without the need for transposition. This means that the concept of safe third country will apply immediately in Belgian law, as will already be the case as a result of the recent legislative amendment. Compulsory application is still being negotiated at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, working with a system of safe third countries I am there, for the sake of clarity, unable to stand up to what is safe but very well defined. I would have liked to know how you look at that. You have given a very legal answer, but we must take a position in the negotiations at European level: to what extent is'safe' entered into? The criteria have been developed in the past. Are we setting our criteria? Don't we give them ideas? That is not clear to me in your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u35	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 225, by Mr Stefaan Vercamer 22574 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u36	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I come back to you on the issue of quotas for the distribution of refugees between the Member States of the European Union and on the answer that you were kind enough to give to my question No 21315 at our committee meeting on 5 December. You said that Belgium was one of the "virtuous" states in the European Union in terms of compliance with allocation quotas. However, it appears that three Visegrad Group countries are subject to infringement proceedings initiated by the European Union. Mr Secretary of State, following this infringement procedure, what are the possible convictions imposed by the European Court of Justice? Could the latter force these countries to set up decent reception facilities? In the event of a refusal by the States concerned to comply with this obligation and in the absence of an adequate structure, could Belgium and the other virtuous Member States accept these refugees, subject to full payment by the condemned countries of the costs resulting from this additional reception? In addition to my question of 5 December, I would like to point out that Hungary and Poland persist in refusing any concessions. Last week, we were able to read an interview with Prime Minister Orban, which I believe appeared in Le Soir. He challenged any order by the European Union against Hungary, considering that only Hungary was competent to determine who could or could not live there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u37	Mr Flahaux, thank you very much for your question. Pursuant to Article 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Commission is competent to refer the case to the Court of Justice of the European Union in the event of a Member State's failure to fulfil one of its obligations under the Treaties, including derived rights. Therefore, when the Commission finds an infringement of European law, this Article provides, before referral to the Court, for a conciliation step in the sense that the Commission invites the Member State in breach to explain the reasons for the infringement. Where it considers that these explanations are not sufficient, it may bring an action for failure to fulfil obligations before the Court. Article 260 provides that, if the Court of Justice recognizes that a Member State has failed to fulfil its duties, it shall be obliged to take measures in accordance with the execution of the Court's judgment. The latter may therefore require a Member State to carry out measures which it considers necessary to ensure that the State in question complies with its European obligations. Finally, if the Commission considers that the Member State does not implement the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, it may, under the same Article, after having enabled that State to submit its observations, again refer the matter to the Court of Justice to order the Member State to pay a lump sum or periodic penalty payment to be paid by the Member State concerned which it considers appropriate in the circumstances. This is the current procedure. The Commission did not refer the matter to the Court for failure by these three States to fulfil their obligations under the Home Directive 2013/33, but rather because of the failure to comply with the temporary emergency relocation programme established by two Council Decisions adopted in September 2015 under which the Member States undertook to relocate persons in need of international protection from Italy and Greece. I was present at the meeting on the subject and voted in favour. That was Belgium's proposal. This is the first time that there has been no unanimity, a historic moment. The Court could therefore only direct Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic to implement measures aimed at accepting asylum seekers relocated from Greece or Italy by setting up a reception structure that respects the obligations laid down in the "Home" Directive. This latter case can only be considered if the Commission initiates the same procedure against these countries for failure to comply with their obligations under this Directive. Belgium cannot legally replace the obligations of these Member States while forcing them to pay the cost of implementing the obligations that have not been fulfilled. In practice, all asylum seekers from Italy and Greece who are involved in relocation were actually accepted. This is the current procedure. These countries have been condemned. With regard to costs and fines, the Court will decide in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u38	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. This shows how, unfortunately, the differences are deep between the countries of the European Union on this issue. No later than this last weekend, the presidential election was held in the Czech Republic. The outgoing socialist president was a candidate and gathered more than 42%. He said, however, "Not a single refugee, let alone a single Muslim, in the Czech Republic." Next to this, Belgium appears almost as a paradise!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u39	We could also recall what Louis Michel said about Austria.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u40	I am quite comfortable talking about Austria, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u41	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u42	I didn't say anything to the contrary, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u43	In Austria, the deputy, he is a Christian-Democrat and not a liberal who has associated himself with the far right. The Liberal party, on the contrary, is in opposition – with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u44	I was wondering if you were in line with what Louis Michel was saying about Austria.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u45	Totally.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u46	Mr Flahaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u47	It seems to me, too. I appreciate Mrs Fernandez Fernandez on the human level, but in some questions she is sometimes verkrampt, as they say.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u48	Mr Flahaux, it was you who started with the notion of socialist!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u49	It's like liberalism. "Humanity" is depending on whether we're in government with the N-VA or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u50	Not at all!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u51	Madam President, Secretary of State, around 200 million African women throughout the world bear the consequences for the rest of their lives of a gruesome practice, in particular genital mutilation. Global migration flows make Europe and Belgium more and more confronted with this problem, through the import of practice. In the Istanbul Convention, ratified by Belgium, Articles 38 and 60 stipulate that the parties must take all possible measures to punish female genital mutilation and to make asylum procedures gender-sensitive. In particular, our country has two organisations that have been providing high-quality work on genital mutilation for years, namely INTACT and GAMS. At the end of 2016, in cooperation with the Institute for Equality between Women and Men, they organised a colloquium in which policy objectives were formulated in order to work properly with genital mutilation within asylum procedures. However, both organizations are in danger of getting into difficulties due to the absence of structural funding, which enables them to continue their work in a good way. Since both organisations are also active in a number of asylum centres, I would like to ask you the following questions. Has there been financial support for GAMS and INTACT from your custody agencies in recent years? If so, what are the amounts? Is there support for GAMS and INTACT for 2017 from your guardianship bodies? What kind of support are we talking about? Was their operation evaluated? What were the conclusions? Has this led to any other support? In what specific way do your services work from the translation of the Istanbul Convention into Belgian asylum policy? What measures can be considered gender-sensitive, with particular attention to genital mutilation? Who is involved in the implementation of these measures? Are you committed to developing structural funding for INTACT and GAMS so that they can continue their work? How many asylum applications with genital mutilation as motive have your services processed since 2014? What were the countries of origin? How many of these applications have ultimately led to recognition? I'd like to get a breakdown by country and by year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u52	Madam President, Mrs Van Hoof, your question is interesting, but you are asking for a lot of figures. Do you agree that I will give you the answer in writing and that you will convert your question into a written question? On paper you will find all the information on the subsidies we may or may not grant and also interesting figures on protection based on genital mutilation. I think you can continue with that written reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u53	I propose that the written reply be given to all members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u54	If I have to read the answer, I'll be at it for an hour. At 12:15, I have to leave the committee. The agenda also includes a debate on Sudan.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u55	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u56	Mr. Secretary of State, is the support for GAMS and INTACT standing?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u57	I have granted a project financing 2016-2017 for 400 000 euros. That's being evaluated now. They submitted another project proposal for 2018-2019. It's about GAMS, with the non-profit INTACT as project partner. That is being considered now, and I will make a decision on that. They were never financed as intensely and frequently as in recent years. In 2016-2017 it amounted to EUR 400 000, while in the previous years it amounted to EUR 50 000 to EUR 60 000 per year. This funding has thus been greatly increased. We are aware of that. A new project has been submitted and I will make a decision on that. If you are asking for structural funding, whereby they automatically receive a certain amount for an unlimited period of time, then I have to answer you that I did not plan it. You should know that a lot of organisations are asking for funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u58	Yes, but few organizations are as good as they are, with their expertise in the field of genital mutilation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u59	Many organizations are very good. There is still no structural funding for organisations with projects on trafficking in human beings. I am thinking, for example, of Payoke's centers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u60	That's something else.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u61	That is indeed something else, but it is within my area of competence and therefore within my budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u62	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u63	I am concerned that many good organisations are working on provision for the most vulnerable in the immigration mill, so that they are properly and humanely taken care of and supported in a new life here. There are many organisations, but I cannot finance them all structurally. I'm sure I'll take your question with me. I know what you're arguing for, and you're adorable with that. However, I can tell you that I have greatly increased funding, which, I think, means something, without, therefore, providing unlimited structural funding for several years. I cannot promise funding of EUR 200 000 a year, but I am certainly working on it. The evaluation at Fedasil is ongoing. I will give you the written answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u64	Chairperson: Brecht Vermeulen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u65	Mr Secretary of State, I am delighted that funding has increased, given the expertise of these two organisations in the field of genital mutilation. Of course, there are also organisations that fight against trafficking in women, for example, which also have expertise. However, the organisations I mentioned are worth funding because of their specific expertise. It is therefore very good that you have already increased their funding, for which thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u66	The figures will be placed on the extranet via the committee secretariat, as usual, where they can be consulted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u67	I suspect that there is a detailed answer with many figures here too. I would like to put this question orally, in the hope that you will publish it. I would like to draw particular attention to gender-sensitive asylum procedures. That's bigger than just genital mutilation. Hence my questions. How many files are there with gender-sensitive elements? These include sexual orientation, victims of domestic violence, victims of intra-family violence, forced marriages, exploitation, honour killings, child marriages, trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. How many applications since 2010 dealt with gender-sensitive elements, for the different statutes, for subsidiary protection and for the refugee status? How many were recognized? How many cases were brought before the Court? Those are, in summary, my questions. I suspect the answer will be very detailed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u68	The answer covers about 30 pages. Mrs Van Hoof, I believe you've been here a long time, even longer than I have. So you know that Article 122 (b) of the Rules of Procedure requires you to ask a written question. Mr President, I am almost completely up-to-date with the answers to written questions. I understand that Members of this House were sometimes frustrated because they had to wait a long time, so I have drawn my colleagues' attention once more. Now we're almost completely up-to-date. There can therefore be no reason for an oral question. Anyway, you're lucky, Mrs. Van Hoof, I have the answer. I'm in a generous mood and I'd be happy to give you the answer. It is indeed very detailed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u69	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u70	As usual, in view of the fact that they will not be included in the report, we will make the figures available to all members of the committee via the extranet. That's the quickest way to get 'em.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u71	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, on 14 December 2017, the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, the President of the European Parliament, Antonio Tajani, and the President-in-Office of the Council and Prime Minister of Estonia, Youri Ratas, jointly signed the new joint declaration on the legislative priorities of the European Union for the period 2018-2019, which sets out 31 new legislative proposals presented by the Commission, which the President and the Council will deal with as a matter of priority with a view to their adoption before the elections of the European Parliament in the summer of 2019. Among the priorities of the European institutions are "the one which aims to reform and develop our migration policy in a spirit of responsibility and solidarity, in accordance with the Joint Declaration on the European Union's legislative priorities for 2018-2019". Mr Secretary of State, what will be the modalities of this new European Union policy that will impact Belgian policies on asylum and migration? Does this reform bury the EU's policy on migrant quotas? As I said earlier, Belgium is one of the good students of the European class with regard to its asylum and migration policy. What further efforts, if any, will be required in connection with this reform of the European Union's migration policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the joint declaration provides that the co-legislators, with the assistance of the Commission, undertake to "reform and develop our migration policy in a spirit of responsibility and solidarity, including the reform of the common European asylum system, the Dublin mechanism and the legal migration package". This declaration does not change the reform of the common European asylum system undertaken by the Commission in 2016; it aims only to reinforce the need to reach its final adoption. Since the Commission's presentation of the new asylum package, Belgium has engaged constructively in negotiations with its European partners in order to achieve greater uniformity within the different national asylum systems of the European Union. Our country will therefore continue to work in this direction to ensure that the asylum package is adopted at European level. The joint statement made by Messrs. Juncker, Tajani and Ratas make no mention of the direction the negotiations must take in order to reach an agreement. The question of quotas for the redistribution of applicants for international protection, namely the potential solidarity mechanism, is not addressed by the three presidents. The difficulties faced by the co-legislators during the process of adopting the reform remain numerous, particularly with regard to the solidarity mechanism and, therefore, to the potential quota of asylum seekers. However, Belgium is committed to working with its European partners to reach a compromise.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u73	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. It is true that, in this case, it is a expressed will. We could be satisfied with the rotating presidency of the time by Estonia, led by a liberal government. Unfortunately, with Bulgaria and its extreme right-wing party associated with the government and Austria, later, also associated with an extreme right-wing party, I have serious concerns. However, it seems to me good to hear the wishes expressed very clearly by the three Presidents in connection with the construction of Europe. We will be paying attention, and I am convinced that you will also be, to the realization on the right track of these wills of responsibility and solidarity which I believe to be extremely important.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the number of questions, I shall pay attention to the speaking time. I would suggest about three minutes per question. It'll be clemency, but if it goes too far, I'll intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u75	Mr President, Secretary of State, regarding the expulsion of Sudanese migrants, you have asked for the assistance of the Sudanese authorities in identifying their nationals in Maximilian Park. Several were then returned to their countries of origin. The Tahrir Institute for Politics in the Middle East is said to have collected evidence that these persons were reportedly detained and ill-treated upon their return to the Sudan. In addition, we were able to read recently in L'Echo that at the hearings in Brussels no Belgians were present. What the Foreigners' Office hastened to contest. Mr Secretary of State, what is the current situation? What about the accusations that no Belgian officials were present at the hearings? Did the Sudanese authorities react to these events?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u76	Mr President, I assume that I am asking my two questions in succession to the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u77	Mr Hellings, I have three questions from you. I think the questions have been put together.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u78	Mr Secretary of State, one question concerns the repatriation of Sudanese and another concerns the comments of Mr Roosemont, Director-General of the Office of Foreigners.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u79	And a question regarding the effective appeal to the Council for Foreigner's Contests.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u80	I assume that this is an unattached matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u81	Yes, it is on this agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u82	This has nothing to do with Sudan.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u83	This must then be communicated in advance. I have prepared a joint answer, which has been worked on for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u84	That does not appear as an attachment to the agenda, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u85	Yes. There are three questions on your part, Mr. Hellings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u86	If you want, I'll read all my questions in order. I don't mind. Mr Secretary of State, on 21 December 2017, you stated that no long-term expulsion of Sudanese migrants was planned for January 2018. You said, on December 21, 2017, that the Prime Minister's remarks at the time in plenary were absurd. At the end of this plenary session, however, it appeared in the Committee on the Interior that this was not the case. It is not, it seems, until December 21st that you gave the order to suspend the expulsions. Secretary of State, what is the truth? My second question concerns the statements of the Director General of the Office of Foreigners. As parliamentarians, we are accustomed to receiving indirect answers to our questions from the Foreign Office, through you. That's the democratic role. And that is quite normal, since you exercise administrative and political control over this administration. This administration manages its area of competence under your authority and responsibility. At the end of December, there were many statements. On 26 December 2017, Mr.Roosemont stated this on VTM's branches and repeated it to the Belga agency, regarding the suspicions of ill-treatment of expelled Sudanese: "That they were interrogated when they arrived in Sudan is not unusual. But it's not the same as torture." He added, with regard to the six testimonies revealed by the Tahrir Institute, that they are not impartial: "How neutral is their account?" The head of your administration therefore publicly questioned the testimony in question, even though the Prime Minister had just, on December 21, 2017, entrusted the CGRA with an independent investigation into this matter. Mr Roosemont later gave his interpretation of article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, stating that the examination of compliance with this article is carried out for all migrants "but more succinctly for those who have not applied for asylum". Mr. Secretary of State, have these communications from the Director General been coordinated with you? Do you assume them, then, politically? This is your role as the appropriate minister. Do you share the very restrictive interpretation of Article 3 in question, as presented by the Director General of the Office of Foreigners? Finally, do you intend to seek advice from the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees or any other European body on the interpretation of this famous article 3 with regard to non-asylum migrants, that is, most migrants who are currently "parked" at Maximilian Park and North Railway Station? I come to my third question, since it has been joined. It concerns the implementation of effective remedies to the Council of the Litigation of Foreigners (CCE). I am concerned about the possibility of an effective remedy for foreigners in administrative detention. As you know, the time limit for bringing an appeal in extreme urgency to the Foreigners' Litigation Council is ten days from the notification of the order to leave the territory with a decision of deprivation of liberty, reduced to only five days when it is not the first order to leave the territory received by the person. An alien detained in a closed centre must therefore have access to a lawyer within an extremely short period of time if he or she wishes to assert his or her right to an effective remedy because only the most urgent recourse to the CCE is effective when he or she is detained, since the ordinary application for suspension does not have the effect of suspending the expulsion. However, it came back to me, through a migrant aid association which, at the time, had had contact with the social service of the Vottem centre, that it was not possible for an alien arrested and detained on the date of 22 December 2017, to apply for access to a pro deo lawyer (legal aid) through the Vottem centre before the following Wednesday, the Wednesday 27 December 2017, the last date of the five-day statutory deadline. Mr Secretary of State, what are the guidelines given to the directorates of the closed centres regarding access to pro deo lawyers (legal aid offices)? If it turns out that these instructions are not clear or do not provide for an immediate possibility to ask legal aid offices for the assistance of a pro deo lawyer, can you assure me that they will be rectified immediately?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u87	Mr President, I actually have four questions, but I would like to reduce them to three. I would also like to put them in a more logical order, if that is possible. I have also adapted one question in the light of the latest information so as not to create confusion. Mr Secretary of State, a few weeks ago a letter from the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless addressed the press to you. I have some questions about that. Was it information that you asked for or was it a CGVS' own initiative? If it was a CGVS' own initiative, why do you think the CGVS sent this information to you? Did you deliver that letter to the DVZ and, if so, when? Was the information used by you and/or the DVZ and, if so, in what way? For example, the letter is very explicit about African Sudaneses from Darfur, South Kordofan and Blue Nile. Automatic recognition as a refugee is actually recommended. I also asked you this question at the committee meeting on Friday 22 December 2017, but I did not receive an answer at that time. In what way will their expulsion be justified so that it does not conflict with Article 3 of the ECHR? If the reasoning were not to send people back to these regions, but to Khartoum, for example, was it investigated whether the persons concerned had been living, working, family members, etc. and there was nothing to fear, or was there any other argument to expel them in accordance with Article 3? As far as Article 3 is concerned, I have asked several times how many times the investigation led to a decision not to deport to Sudan. What were the reasons for that? I would like a concrete answer to these questions. On 5 December, you told me in this committee that 'in order to identify the region from which those concerned originate, each individual dossier should be examined'. You made it clear that there are no systematic data on regional origin, but "some laissez-passers contain an address," you said. Since it is only nine people, it is not an impossible task to look at each individual file and I would like to ask you how many persons in the laissez-passer an address was mentioned from Darfur, Blue Nile and South Kordofan respectively? How many of them were African and Arab Sudanese from those regions, respectively? How many of these nine people declared themselves from those regions? Have you carried out a comparative study of precedents in other countries in preparation for the agreements with Sudan? When did that investigation happen? What lessons did you learn from the best practices in other countries? Does the return to Sudan from Belgium fit formally in the Khartoum process? My second question has been changed a bit. I'll tell you what's changed. Through the press we have learned that an attempt would have been made by DVZ to repatriate a Sudanese man whose asylum procedure had not yet been completed to Sudan. The man entered the Schengen area via Italy, travelled to Germany and applied for asylum. Germany requested Italy to take over the asylum seeker, on the basis of the Dublin Regulation. The man was then found in Belgium, after which Belgium asked Germany, on the basis of the asylum application lodged there, to take over the case. Germany reported that Italy was responsible. A request for transfer was addressed to Italy. Italy did not reply within the time limit and was therefore deemed to agree to the examination of the application for asylum, as required by the Dublin Convention. A transfer to Rome was organized. Two days before the planned transfer, Italy requested that the transfer be postponed. Not much later in my first question was half an hour later, but probably two days later the dossier was delivered to the Sudanese, on which the person was identified by the committee and a laissez-passer was delivered. The man was put on a plane to Sudan. At the last moment the repatriation did not take place because the man resisted. The Brussels Chamber agreed with him because the principle of non-refoulement appeared to have been violated. The DVZ would therefore have delivered an asylum seeker's file to Sudan and would have tried to expel the same asylum seeker to Sudan. Hence my questions. Was the man formally an asylum seeker at the time of the expulsion attempt to Sudan? I would very much like an answer to that. The fact that Germany did not want to deal with the application is not a matter of fact. We read Mr Roosemont's statement that this would be a practice where a question for explanation from Italy amounts to a refusal to take the person back. What provision of the Dublin system does the DVZ invoke for such a question of interpretation to be equivalent to a refusal? Assuming Italy formally refuses, does it mean that the man seeking asylum is finished and would be deportable? What is the normal consequence of such a refusal? I would also like to mention the concrete Dublin provision. Mr Roosemont says that this is a practice. How many asylum seekers who came into Italy and applied for asylum elsewhere, and ultimately asked a question by Italy, were sent to the country of origin by Belgium this year? How many of them were Sudanese? Following a judgment of the RVV at the end of September in which the RV argued that the statement of reasons for Article 3 was insufficient or not substantiated, we read in the newspaper that the justifications for the then 41 Sudanese would be rewritten. This would also re-start the period of appeal. That judgment seems to me at first sight similar to the case of my question. Did that new motivation happen in the end? How many people? How were they selected? Finally, sp.a has always stressed the need for the return of those who are irregularly resident on Belgian territory. However, especially when cooperating with dubious regimes, such return operations should be prepared with utmost precision and carried out with utmost caution. After all, if one does not do that, one does not actually work efficiently. In the long term, they are given a reason to obtain residence permits. So one has to be careful for a boomerang effect. For the sake of clarity, this has already been said a few times, I do not think there was any precision and caution in the preparation, nor clear agreements and clear guarantees, including on the follow-up, to the Sudan deal. Especially in view of the lack of preparation and unclear arrangements, the Belgian work was not completed once the laissez-passer had been delivered and the Sudanese was deported voluntarily or not. Already since September, I and my colleague Dirk Van der Maelen have asked both you, Minister Jambon and Prime Minister Michel to organise an efficient follow-up of the deployed Sudanese. There was no answer to that. Mr Van der Maelen also interviewed Minister Reynders on this issue, who replied in committee on 18 October that you should ask him to follow that up from the Cairo embassy. I then brought that answer to you. Actually, I played liaison. On October 25th, you informed us that the embassy in Cairo had been contacted. It was considered how the follow-up could possibly be organised. However, there was nothing concrete yet. At that time, if I were to reconstruct it correctly, eight Sudanese had already been deported. For the record, this is not a question about the ERIN network or the role of the IOM. The appointment concerning ERIN was made on 13 October. The fact story outlined shows that on 25 October, after the ERIN meeting, you thought of a different kind of succession, via the embassy and its network. Hence the following questions. What steps have been taken since 25 October and prior to the reports of possible torture and ill-treatment to follow the deported Sudanese people through the embassy and its network? For the sake of clarity, I am not talking about the investigation that has been decided on recently. Of how many of the deported Sudanese have you provided the Belgian embassy and its network with the contact details, prior to any reports of abuse? What contact details were we talking about? Have you, or the DVZ, kept in contact with Minister Reynders or directly with the embassy for the execution of any appointments? How many of the deployed Sudanese people have been tried to contact? How many of them have succeeded or failed? What information has been obtained through the possible follow-up by the embassy and its network? What consequences have you had?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u88	Mr. Chairman, my question was initially addressed to the Prime Minister. Indeed, I felt that, after my intervention on topical issues in plenary, several questions remained open about the mission entrusted to CGRA. I am not going to recontextualize the problem, as my colleagues have dealt with it extensively. Mr. Franken, can you tell me what the purpose of the investigation announced by the Prime Minister and yourself is? Is this cooperation with the Sudanese dictatorial regime or will it be limited to the torture that has allegedly been inflicted on some evicted persons? What is the exact nature of the warrant issued to CGRA in this file? Does it have to conduct an investigation or prepare a report? What are the international organizations associated with this mission? Do people have or will they be sent to the place - as you yourself announced in December to the press - even though there is obviously reason to doubt the value of going to see the facts that would have been committed more than a month ago? If they go there, what procedure will they follow? What's the status at this point? Has the investigation started? What is the deadline? Have any contacts ever been made with expelled people, some of whom have certainly been persecuted, as the RTBF reported to us last week? Finally, you and the Prime Minister indicated that, during the investigation, repatriations to Sudan would be suspended. Can you confirm that? Similarly, can you confirm the absence of a Dublin procedure for Sudanese during the duration of the investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u89	I note that Mr Maingain and Mrs Smeyers are not here either. I shall therefore give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u90	Mr President, I would like to make it clear that the Prime Minister has already answered many questions. I have also been here several times to give answers. I will therefore try to give an overview of the answers, with some more detailed information. As regards the section on cooperation with IOM/ERIN, I would like to say that ERIN is a European programme of integration support to several third countries, including Sudan. Implementation in the field is carried out by the UN agency IOM. However, the ultimate responsibility remains with the Member States, as the programme is Member States-driven. The following Member States shall participate specifically for Sudan: Austria, Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, Norway, Spain, Romania, Sweden, the United Kingdom and Switzerland. All the countries mentioned are therefore participating in ERIN for Sudan. Cooperation can be in the context of both voluntary and forced return. For our country, a contract has been entered into with ERIN/IOM to support initially fifteen forced Sudanese returners. On departure, the contact details of IOM in Khartoum will be provided to the Sudanese. They themselves should contact IOM on the spot, in the vicinity of the airport, to enjoy the support. This is primarily about reintegration aid. So far, a total of two of the Sudanese have applied to IOM Khartoum. One Sudanese was helped by the program to start its own store. Our country informs IOM in advance which Sudanese are being returned. A support budget of €500 per Sudanese returned has been entered. This budget may be deviated in individual cases. The Foreign Affairs Office renewed the contract with IOM to allow persons who are returned in the first quarter of 2018 to use the support, of course in case of return. There was not yet an option on the spot to carry out a monitoring by DVZ's own officials or by the embassy. There is also no Belgian embassy in Sudan. However, the follow-up will be provided through ERIN. Then I come to the repatriation figures to Khartoum and the planning. With regard to the planned removal to Sudan, I can inform you that on 20 December I gave the order to cancel the flights booked. No forced return flights to Sudan are currently planned. I will give you the state of play from 1 August 2017 until 15 January 2018. Since 1 August 2017, 117 persons who declared to be Sudanese nationality have been locked up in a closed centre by the DVZ. Of these, 10 persons were repatriated to the country of origin, 90 were removed to an EU Member State, 88 persons on the basis of the Dublin Convention and 2 on the basis of a bilateral agreement. Some were already held from before 1 August 2017, for the sake of clarity. Thirty-five persons were exempted for various reasons: no identification, recognised as refugees, suspension of appeals, etc. Currently there are 29 persons who declared to be Sudanese nationals in the closed centres. Nine Sudanese in the centres submitted an asylum application, three of them with a country of origin procedure, all of which were definitively refused, and six by one person in the Dublin procedure. Four of them have already been booked. For two, a takeover request has been made. Then return to Sudan from other countries. The thirteen countries that also organise a return to Sudan are: Bulgaria, voluntary return; Germany, forced return; France, voluntary and forced return; Greece, voluntary and forced return; Hungary, voluntary return; Malta, voluntary return; the Netherlands, voluntary return and forced return; Norway, forced return; Austria, voluntary return; Romania, voluntary and forced return; UK, voluntary and forced return; Sweden, voluntary return; Switzerland, voluntary and forced return. This information was obtained through a recent survey of the European Member States. Not all countries have replied. We are still waiting for some answers, but it shows that both voluntary and forced returns are common practice in many European Member States. With regard to the statements made by Mr Roosemont, the Director-General of the DVZ, I believe that a top official should certainly have ideas on the subject of his daily work and specialized work. I didn't discuss the statements with my Director-General in advance. For his statements concerning the credibility or otherwise of the testimonies of the Sudanese who were repatriated to Khartoum in relation to torture, he based himself, in his own words, on his experience and on the following facts. Firstly, allegations of inhuman treatment are often raised by foreigners in the residence procedures. Even if they can be refuted, they will stick to it because they believe that this is the only possible ticket to our country. Secondly, a concerned Sudanese also stated that he had been treated inhumane in the closed centre. That turned out not to be true at all. Thirdly, their statements are stereotyped. They seem to have been whispered. Fourthly, there is the fact that similar testimonies of torture have recently been thoroughly investigated in Great Britain, but have proved to be incorrect and incorrect. This is in a recent report of August 2017. Secondly, there is the fact that those who contacted IOM after their return did not mention torture. ♪ I'll come to ♪ the repatriation of the Sudanese asylum seeker during the Dublin investigation. The person concerned had applied for asylum in Germany a few years ago. The DVZ, after interpreting the different answers given by both Italy and Germany with regard to the question for a Dublin take-over, assumed that the person concerned no longer had an open asylum application. This led to the start of the identification procedure after Italy's reply. The person concerned was positively identified and a removal was planned. The application for asylum of the person concerned at the closed centre of Merksplas on 20 October initially decided to continue the Dublin procedure. Following the ruling of the council chamber, in November 2017, the exemption was ordered. Following the subsequent exemption, it was decided to continue the procedure in Belgium and to assume responsibility for the asylum procedure. The asylum seeker's file was passed on to the CGVS. In practice, Italy accepts a takeover request on the basis of the Dublin Regulation if it does not return a reply. This is an implied procedure. If there is an answer, this means that Italy has additional questions and does not accept the takeover, or not immediately. There are no statistics on the number of people hitting illegal entry into Italy and on-going asylum applications in another EU country. If the DVD is aware of an application for asylum in another Member State, whether or not this application has been concluded negatively, an application for readmission shall be made on the basis of the Dublin procedure. The alien shall not be returned to his country of origin unless he himself indicates that he wishes to leave for his country of origin voluntarily. According to Article 28 of the Law of 15 December 1980, every foreigner has the choice of the country to which he wishes to return, in so far as he has the necessary documents or authorisations, and in so far as he renounces his asylum applications. If the other Member State is no longer responsible for taking this foreigner back and has applied for asylum in Belgium, the asylum application will in any event be dealt with on the substance in Belgium. I come to Article 3 of the ECHR. I agree with the statement on the review of Article 3 of the ECHR. For those in need of protection, I believe that the asylum procedure remains the right way forward. This statement seems to me to be in line with European case law. The Commissioner-General's note made it clear that the situation in Sudan is not such that a return by definition constitutes a violation of Article 3 of the ECHR. The public authorities have a responsibility to investigate a possible breach of Article 3 even without an application for asylum, but this can of course only be done on the basis of the information available to them. Indeed, for those who fear persecution or inhuman treatment in their country of origin, the asylum procedure is the right way to express these fears. I would point out that if a person wishes only not to be removed to his country of origin without applying for asylum, that means that he or she actually wishes to remain in Belgium illegally. If the general security situation in a country such as Syria is such that any person who is returned is at risk, there will logically be no return regardless of whether an asylum application has been lodged. Mrs De Coninck, I come to the question that you have asked on several occasions and to which you are not supposed to receive an answer: has it already happened that there has been a review of Article 3 by the DVZ without an asylum application being submitted? I understand that this has been suggested several times. Could it be that a review of Article 3 by the DVZ, i.e. not by the CGVS, and without an asylum application, would still decide not to send someone back? That has already happened, for example for Syrians and for Eritreans as well. For example, a Syrian who is found on the territory and who refuses to apply for asylum because he wants to travel on, there are also Syrians who would like to go to the UK, who will not be sent back to Damascus, even if he doesn't ask for asylum. That is obvious, because Syria is a complete area where no return is possible. However, that is not the case for Sudan. The memo from the CGVS can be interpreted perfectly in this way, and we have done so. That note does not state that the whole of Sudan is Article 3 territory, but refers to certain areas. I'll get back to you on that. For other countries such as Sudan, where there is a need for an individual review of a possible breach of Article 3, as the CGVS notes show for Sudan, the DVD can only base itself on the available elements and a concrete fear should be assessed in the context of an asylum application. The memo from the CGVS is an informative note from the Commissioner-General, without a normative character. In the memo, the CGSS analyses the situation in Sudan and demonstrates its way of working on asylum applications submitted by persons of this nationality. The note states that the status is automatically granted: subsidiary protection to Sudanese people from the Darfur, Blue Nile and South Kordofan regions, and refugee status for Sudanese who prove to be from non-Arab ethnic origin and who come from the abovementioned regions. In his note, the Commissioner-General also notes that he makes refusal decisions for some people who claim to be from these regions or ethnic groups, because their statements are not credible. The story of persons declaring to be Sudanese nationality should be examined by an asylum expert. Only he is responsible for assessing the truth and credibility of the story of the candidate refugee, in particular with regard to his region of origin and etnie. Only a statement that one would come from South Kordofan, for example, is not enough. You can understand that, because then, of course, they all say they belong to Darfur. An investigation based on additional information and/or documents is necessary. By refusing to apply for asylum, these Sudanese people make it impossible to verify their personal fears and the truthfulness of their story in concrete terms. A Sudanese citizen is being arrested, he says he's from Sudan and he ends up in a closed center, where we ask him if he wants to apply for asylum. If he refuses to do so and if a repatriation is imminent, he says that we cannot send him back because he is threatened, since he is from Sudan. Then my officials at the Foreign Office can't verify that truthfully. They are not trained for this purpose and have no expertise. After 30 years of asylum policy at the CGVS, the top experts on countries of origin sometimes do not always have the certainty or the story that they are told is true, let alone an official of the DVZ, who has not been trained to do so, would know that. This is a really tough case. We have asked all European countries that are forced to return to Sudan how they will test Article 3 when someone does not want to apply for asylum. Well, that's interesting in itself. If one says that one is from Sudan or Darfur, one must be able to check that that is true. If this is allowed purely by explanation, it will go around in the closed centres and in no time will they all say that they belong to Darfur and we will not be able to control it, because they are not asking for asylum. Mrs De Coninck, I understand your question when you say that we should actually have a mechanism. After all, it is European law that we should be able to test this. Some kind of asylum expert should be recruited from the DVZ. I understand that this may be a question from your group, but that is certainly not evident. It is very interesting to know how other European countries deal with this. I would also like to remind you that in our closed centres we have never had such a large group of people who do not want to apply for asylum, even if we ask for asylum. Then, of course, we have a problem, especially when it comes to Sudanese, because it is a difficult country with a heavy regime. How can staff members of the Aliens Office test Article 3 if the persons concerned do not want to apply for asylum? That's a very good question. I absolutely understand your concerns. It's my concern, too. However, it is not because they say they are from Darfur that we can accept that for nothing. If we were to accept this as true, we would not be able to send back anyone who claims to be Darfur's, even if they do not ask for asylum. In fact, we are circumventing the Dublin Convention in the second place. After all, they do not apply for asylum because they do not want to be sent back to Italy. So we have to watch where we end up landing. The concern is justified. I'm struggling with it myself. We have now requested expertise from colleagues at European level. We want to discuss with the Member States how they deal with such issues. The finality cannot be to circumvent the Dublin Convention. Can you follow me? Those concerned do not apply for asylum. They declare they're from Darfur, which means they can't be returned. We must therefore release them, so that they can continue to try to go to the United Kingdom. That is a very damaging effect, which cannot be the intention. We need to look more closely at how we can make that happen. That's something for the next few weeks. Mrs De Coninck, I am sure that we will be able to discuss this in the coming weeks. Now I come to the questions about the independent investigation. Mrs Fernandez, I come to the independent investigation of the CGRA. The government, through Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Jambon, asked the CGRA to investigate the testimonies of the few people who were removed to the Sudan and who were allegedly ill-treated upon their return. The government informed the CGRA that it was up to the CGRA to determine the methodology of the survey. However, the Government clarified that, as part of this investigation, the CGRA could contact international organizations as well as the Commission. It is up to the CGRA to determine whether or not it is appropriate to send a mission to Sudan. So I can't tell you anything about that. The CGRA has the information. No strict time limit has been set for the closure of this investigation. However, the government asked CGRA to complete this investigation as soon as possible, if possible before the end of January 2018. As regards the identification mission and the presence of interpreters, all removals to Sudan were intended for Khartoum. Therefore, no other region has been removed. The DVD has no systematic data, except those statements which cannot be verified due to the absence of an asylum application, on where the persons concerned come from. There are no systematic data. The identification shall be carried out in Sudan on the basis of all information obtained in Belgium, either via the embassy or via a delegation. For the laissez-passers delivered by the identification delegation, in addition to information from the interview, an internal population register was also used, in which a large proportion of the population is registered. The identification mission sought to identify the persons as accurately as possible and not only to identify the nationality. The laissez-passers were delivered in the name of the Sudanese people concerned. Mr Hellings, all closed centres guarantee the legal assistance of foreigners, in accordance with articles 62 to 66 of the Royal Decree of 2002. The centres work with either the legal aid offices or the Legal Aid Commission of their district to appoint a pro deo lawyer. In addition, a first-line legal permanence is organized at the centre of Vottem and at the centre of Bruges. During the intake, foreigners also receive a fact sheet on the possibility of a pro deo lawyer. I would remind you that it is the Law Society that appoints a pro deo lawyer and that, in exceptional cases, the appointment takes time. With regard to the case to which you are referring, the removal was suspended for ten days, not five. This resident actually arrived at the centre on Friday 22 December, the eve of a weekend followed by Christmas leave. He had an interview with the permanent lawyer on 28 December, who decided on a request for the appointment of a pro deo lawyer at the Brussels Bar. A lawyer intervened in this case and concluded that an appeal was not winable, taking into account the negative elements of the case and the jurisprudence of the ECHR and the CEC. So there was no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u91	May I ask you to keep the replies brief? The Secretary of State has told him to leave the committee at 12:15.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u92	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers to the last question. With regard to the other elements, your political point of view is that other countries – which you have mentioned – adopt the same disgusting practices. It's a fact, I recognize it. But your colleagues don't show up in pictures with the Sudanese ambassador! On 17 September, that's how the case started: you were on your way to the UN at Brussels Airport and you announced via Twitter that you were going to meet with the political police of Omar el-Bashir. You often publicly repeat – as well as the Prime Minister – that these Sudanese do not seek asylum. Why don't they ask for asylum? They will not ask for help and protection from a state that, through you, collaborates with the dictator and his political police that, perhaps, these migrants – from Darfur, South Kordofan or Blue Nile – are fleeing. Your political objective is probably to communicate against an alleged air appeal. According to you, officials are not sure that these migrants in transit are telling the truth. In my view, contrary to any proper application of Article 3, they are not given the benefit of the doubt, whereas the decision to be taken can be extremely burdensome. We are talking about ill-treatment on the spot, we are talking about potentially sending a political opponent back to the jails or to the dictator's claws. The note from the CGRA of 24 October – which has been sent to you confidentially – is clear and draws your political attention to the risks potentially incurred by people from the three mentioned regions. With regard to the position of the Director General of the Foreign Office, Mr. Roosemont, on the extremely restrictive interpretation of Article 3, I would remind you that he is paid to apply your policy and that what he says is binding on you. Since you do not clear yourself of what he has said, I take it that you share his restrictive interpretation of section 3. I think we're gonna have to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u93	Mr Secretary of State, there were many questions and therefore many answers. What I welcome now is that you are indeed going to look at the practice in the other European countries. I hope that we can learn something from the expertise that has been built up there. It does mean that Belgium was not the first country to be involved in this policy. What intrigues me is why these Sudanese don't apply for asylum here. I do know some answers, but what is the fundamental answer? I believe there are several reasons for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u94	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u95	I don't know. Then why just the Sudanese?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u96	I gave you the numbers. There were about 130 locked up. 100 have been returned, 88 of them under the Dublin Convention, 2 under a bilateral treaty and only 10 to Sudan, 1 of which is voluntary. That's why! It's all part of Dublin. They do not want to be sent south because their goal is the north, exactly in the opposite direction. Moreover, these smugglers say: you can only trust me, you cannot believe what anyone says. Our social assistants talked to these people. We have had this debate so many times. The leaflet would not have been good enough according to Mr De Vriendt. We adapted that leaflet together with UNHCR. It would then be expected that the number of Sudanese asylum applications will increase. But no, that's not going up at all. Apparently, what's in that leaflet doesn't really matter. At first, the point was that that leaflet wouldn't be clear. We have made a new leaflet together with UNHCR. That leaflet doesn't have any effect either. We do not see an increase in the number of asylum applications. To sum up, first of all, there is the smuggling network, which talks very hard on those people and which they really believe in. They gave their money to that too. They are very strongly convinced that they should not talk to anyone. They are very closed anyway. They've been through a lot, too. I understand. But that's one of the reasons, I think. Secondly, there is the Dublin Convention. Since hotspots have come, which we are all in favour of, they are much better registered. We can now immediately see in EURODAC where they come from and very often send them back immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u97	I hear that I cannot check that operationally. If they are sent back and the Sudanese Government knows that they have officially applied for asylum, they will be given a special status. On the basis of that special status "political adversary," they are sent to certain prisons in Sudan where torture is taking place. That's their worst fear. They have one chance at being recognized. That is why they do not dare to apply for asylum. The identification mission made that clear to those people in the local language, while we did not understand what was said there. I'm just telling you. Whether it's true or not, I don't know, but it's an important element. As far as identification is concerned, I share your concern that they will deceive you and will all say that they come from Darfur if they know that they will receive residence papers, but we must of course prove the opposite. Some laissez-passers indicate the region from which they come. Either you put it on because you think it, or you put it on because they mentioned it, or you put it on because the Committee on Identification said it. That is why we need to be clear. Either that's a fact, or you don't think it's a fact, but if it's a fact, take it into account. If it's a conjecture, write it down as "suspects" and argue it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u98	Just so we're clear, we don't write anything on the laissez-passers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u99	Or the one who has to. I'm calling you because you're responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u100	If there is a destination or birthplace on a laissez passer, it is either the ambassador, or the people of the consulate, or the people of the identification mission who wrote on it, never any of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u101	Okay, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u102	I get your point, Mrs De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u103	Then you have to think through it, too. Sudan will then tell us which region someone is from. Then it's not the person who says that. It may also be that one was born there and never lived there, I know that, but if Sudan gives a laissez passer and writes that one is from Darfur, then it is not that person who said that. Ready it out. The Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless has expertise in such problems. I also understand that the DVZ and the Commissioner-General have other functions. Nevertheless, consideration should be given to ways of ensuring that the expertise in one administration, institute or body can be used in one way or another, by translation or whatever, by another body.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u104	Mr President, I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether he can answer me about the Dublin evictions. Are they maintained or suspended during the investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u105	Dublin is not suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u106	As a result, Sudanese continue to be expelled to the countries of entry. I have at least one clear answer. I ask myself a supplementary question. You have said on several occasions that the officials of the Office of Foreigners did not have the necessary experience to analyse the files under Article 3. Why are we not detaching CGRA officers to bring their expertise and means so that there are no more evictions that are not necessary and, perhaps, also so that we are not systematically condemned by the justice system? I'll be right back. I don't have an answer about the investigation. You answered, of course, but the only thing we know about this investigation is that it was announced with great excitement on December 21 by the Prime Minister and yourself. It was confirmed to us on 11 January in plenary. It's January 17. We are always told the findings of the investigation by the end of January or, at least, we hope they will. But we still don't know if the investigation started. They don't know how to describe the contours. I understand that the CGRA is an independent body. But I still hope that there is some concern – whether you, Mr Franken, the Deputy Prime Minister or the Prime Minister – about this investigation that will determine whether or not we have sent men back to torture. I know that I am very passionate – some will probably say too much – but the lightness with which we are dealing with this issue seems to me worse than anything. We collaborate with dictatorships; OK, move, there's nothing to see! Men are being sent to torture. I hear we don't seem to be too worried about getting to know them, since those who made the move to come to us are fine. But if the others didn't come, maybe it's because they're less well! One does not even wonder whether this investigation will take place, is taking place, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u107	Mrs Fernandez, you always say that people are being sent back to torture. Do you already know the results of this investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u108	No, I'd like to know them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u109	For you, it is clear that there are tortures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u110	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u111	That is what you say; you have already said it at least ten times today!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u112	Maybe we sent people to torture.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u113	For you, it is a fait accompli. You're sure of that. I can only say that the government – the Kern – has asked Mr Jambon to ask Mr. Van den Bulck if he wanted to investigate the matter. This one's agreed. It enjoys great credibility in Belgium as well as at European level on international protection and European directives on asylum procedures. I know him a little. I have no doubt that he is working seriously and quickly. You're asking me how this investigation is going, but I didn't ask Mr. Van den Bulck, this one has to report to Mr Jambon and not to me. We need to question the competent minister. I don't know. That's not my role. But I'm 90% sure the survey is moving forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u114	I'm not going to be any longer. I agree, Mr. Franken, that you and I don't see things the same way. We will never agree. But I've always looked after the precautionary principle on these cases. I never said we sent men to torture, I said maybe we did. But this doubt must be enough to move us and encourage us not to be content with a "circulez, there is nothing to see." As I told you, my question was not originally addressed to you. This is the Prime Minister's responsibility. You say you're not in a position to answer, so I'm informing the services that I'm going to put my question back to the Prime Minister, since he seems to have the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u115	A letter has been sent asking when he can inform this commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u116	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u117	Mr Franken, our divergence in this matter concerns political responsibility. You and the Prime Minister seem to say there is none. It's a point of view; it's not mine. Like the responsibilities of the administration, these political responsibilities must be cleared, even though I understand that they will not be carried out. That was said loud and clear. Mr President, I conclude by saying that we have already asked to hear from the CGRA. I would like to reiterate strongly the request of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic797x.u118	Mrs Fernandez, we have not yet received a reply.
