ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u2	Mr President, I have tabled a question to the Prime Minister about the incredible increase in the price of petrol and diesel in Belgium, which causes incredible suffering to workers. I find it unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen, that the Prime Minister refuses to answer my question, which was properly introduced before 11:00 a.m. and accepted at 12:03 p.m. to be included in the list of topical questions. So I had been given permission to put it to the Prime Minister. Forty-five minutes later, we received the same list, but modified: my question about the incredible increase in the price of diesel and petrol had indeed been removed! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, why does the Prime Minister refuse to answer my question when it is so important to people's lives? I was sent back to Mr. Van Overtveldt, when my question is not about taxation at all. It's pretty amazing to be here for the first time, because we're not talking about an absent minister here. This is a question of a Prime Minister who is present and who can still decide to answer. That is why I ask him: Mr Prime Minister, is it a problem for you to answer my question about the increase in the price of petrol and diesel? I propose to give him the floor. [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u3	Sorry, Mr. Hedebouw!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u4	Mr President, I am submitting a simple proposal. [[Brouhahaha]] Colleagues, we're listening to Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u5	Mr Hedebouw, I must disappoint you. I'll answer you myself. Of course, the problem is not new. It is a question which, like all other questions, is important, but to which different aspects are attached. The question will not be answered by the Prime Minister but by the government. It will be the Minister of Finance who will bind the government in its reply. Moreover, your question will also cover aspects such as the index, for which the Minister for the Economy, Mr Peeters, is responsible. As you know, he's not here. In other words, it really doesn't matter who answers, as long as there is an answer from a minister who binds the entire government. That's the answer. I repeat, the problem is not new. Mr Hedebouw, you have a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u6	I take note. The Belgian people will know... [[Laughs]] That makes you laugh! Look at them: they're laughing! We're talking about 1.60 euro at the pump, 60 euros more per month, and that makes everyone laugh here. It doesn't make me laugh! It's easy for you! Mr President, what is scandalous, the people can know: the Prime Minister is present, can answer, but refuses to do so, while the Minister of the Economy, who could possibly have answered, is not present. We therefore clearly have a Prime Minister who refuses to respond, which is very serious from a democratic and social point of view. The people will know!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u7	Prime Minister, Austria, Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Croatia, Australia and, not to mention, the United States have decided not to sign the Marrakesh immigration pact of the United Nations. They rightly believe that the agreement is a safe haven for uncontrolled immigration. The Marrakech Pro-Immigration Pact has become a sort of legal and illegal immigration catalogue, which opens the gates of Europe even more widely than is already the case. Your Deputy Prime Minister, Mr De Croo, has already announced on Twitter that he will sign the Global Compact for Migration in Marrakesh with great conviction on behalf of our country. Your Secretary of State, Mr Francken, said that the Marrakesh agreement must be looked at thoroughly before it is signed. Moreover, I cannot imagine that the N-VA, Mr De Roover, will accept the agreement in no uncertain terms. In the book of your Secretary of State, Continent without frontiers, he rightly writes that international and European agreements of this kind make it impossible for him to pursue a firm immigration policy. He is, of course, right in that regard. Now there is such an agreement on the table, which is not signed by many countries. The Marrakesh agreement does indeed make immigration a human right, based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The Marrakesh agreement will in future become the Bible for every refugee, illegal, transmigrant or foreigner who wants and will force access to Europe. My question, Prime Minister, is therefore obvious. Has the government made a decision yet? Is the government considering reconsidering its decision after so many countries decided not to sign the pact? What will be your attitude? Will you, yes, on behalf of the government, sign the pact on 10 December in Marrakesh?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in September 2016, the Member States of the United Nations took the decision of principle to draw up a pact. This process has lasted more than two years and has been in three stages to conduct a dialogue. I'm quoting a few points that are in contradiction with what you said. Firstly, the text is not a binding text. Secondly, the text expressly recognises the sovereignty of the Member States on migration. Thirdly, the intention of the text, which is contained in its title, is indeed a regular, safe and orderly migration. In Belgium, as always in the case of multilateral agreements, we have followed the procedure whereby various experts have been able to give advice. They delivered a favourable opinion on 12 September. That is why Minister De Croo made a statement on this. For the rest, it is always possible to have a political discussion in the Council of Ministers on an international document, particularly in view of developments in a number of EU Member States. We are therefore prepared to hold a thorough discussion on this subject, which seems logical to me, on the basis of a correct interpretation of the text and the necessary consultation with our classic European partners. Finally, I think it is very important that we take responsibility for migration in Belgium. We have made clear choices over the last four years. We also need to develop cooperation with other countries for a firm and pertinent approach to migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u9	So, Prime Minister, you confirm that you will sign this pact and that there will be no more discussion. However, you also say that this pact is not a binding text. Then I wonder why countries such as Austria, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, Croatia, Australia and not to mention the United States of America have already decided not to sign the pact. We all know that such agreements are subsequently used and abused by organisations and individuals to enforce their rights. Anyone who signs this agreement, colleagues and, above all, colleagues from the N-VA, should not be surprised afterwards, not to write books, not to make tough statements, about giving our sovereignty to Europe, to the UN and to whom we are no longer in charge of our own immigration policy, over our own borders. Prime Minister, I call on you to reconsider this Global Compact for Migration and at least to table a number of amendments, such as Hungary and other countries. I certainly call on the N-VA to do what is in this book, namely not to be served by international agreements, to preserve our sovereignty and to ensure that we are and remain in control of our own borders. [[The speaker shows a book]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u10	Prime Minister, congratulations. You have another new job, another new authority: you will be the headhunter of this government. You've got a lot of work to do right away. This is how you should manage the National Bank, the European Investment Bank, the FPIM and the energy regulator CREG. These men must be taken literally nowadays, especially with this government. Do you know what Deputy Prime Minister Jan Jambon said about political headhunting? He called it dolls and mails. I must say, however, that it concerns statements from 2012. When one pulls one's own strings, that opinion can of course change. Prime Minister, you always talk about jobs, jobs, jobs. Those political appointments get jobs, jobs, jobs. I'm giving a little anthology. In the Regent Council of the National Bank of Belgium we have placed Cédric Frère, the head of the study department of the N-VA and the dolls of the social partners. Ms Gwendolyn Rutten's Head of Cabinet entered the Management Committee. In the College of Censors came the treasurer of the N-VA. It was not just about the National Bank, however, because we also have the Constitutional Court. That's where we sent Mrs. Fientje Moerman. However, Mr Verhofstadt had questions about the political appointment of the judges of the Constitutional Court in Poland. Apparently, that doesn't apply here. We also recently sent Mr Turtelboom to the European Court of Auditors. Prime Minister, all these institutions have been appointed politically. That is not only a Belgian but unfortunately also a Flemish disease. In other words, participation rules not only in Parliament, but also in all those institutions. This raises the question of how such institutions can do a good and objective job. What is the value of their reports when they know that it is all politicians sitting there? It is absolutely not about the persons and it will not be about the person Steven Vanackere. However, when people say that CD&V is on, those who say that in the same bed are sick. Prime Minister, I have a specific question. How do you view your new job as headhunter? Are you going to place more political dolls everywhere, or are you finally going to change it? Are you going to make sure those appointments are objective?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the public institutions are concerned, the government must make some decisions. I would like to distinguish between, on the one hand, the board of directors and, on the other hand, the executive functions. For the board of directors, it seems important to me to make decisions on the basis of principles aimed at increasing the number of women in these positions in the future. That is a strong commitment, which I think we should take on. There is also a need for greater independence. We must find a balanced solution to this problem. We need more independence and professionalism, but we also need democratic representation. We are talking about public institutions. It therefore seems logical to me that we should look for more professionalism, more powers and more independence, but at the same time we should also take into account democratic representation. As far as executive functions are concerned, for example, we have made a clear choice with SNCB. We have opted for an objectification there. The government has made a choice on the basis of its results. I made the decision of principle to consult the nuclear cabinet. Concrete proposals will be presented later to clearly evolve towards better governance, more professionalism and more independence, taking into account the reality of public institutions. You set the example of the Constitutional Court. In my view, this is a very bad example, because it is a legal principle. The appointments to the Constitutional Court have nothing to do with a government decision. As far as the National Bank is concerned, we have not waited. A few years ago, an initiative was taken in the context of the reduction of director positions at the National Bank. We have also taken note of new proposals from the Minister of Finance for further reform in the SAB today. We will make the necessary decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. I am very happy to hear you plead for more women and more independents. You also refer to the proposals of the Minister for Finance, Mr Van Overtveldt, on the National Bank. Well, these are all V&W proposals. Indeed, the representation of the Regions, is a proposal from us, the abolition of the College of censors is also a proposal from us, the ideal for the downgrading of the management committees. As far as quotas for the Management Committee are concerned, I am not much for quotas, to be honest. Our proposal is to ensure that the Management Committee is composed of persons of different genders. I can imagine that the N-VA would like to amend this as such, because I know that Mr Van Peel is not in favour of quotas either. That way that problem would have been solved too. You say that you have discussed the matter, but I wonder if it will be all right during this legislative period. After all, this is where the participation likes to rule the country. Mr Prime Minister, admit that the right woman and the right man in the right place cannot be so difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u13	Deputy Prime Minister, I have called you, I have alerted you, and I have asked for your intervention on several occasions. The weeks follow and the situation is not getting better. Never before have the working conditions at bpost been so untenable. The unions had never acted with such force on the common front. Never, in fact, has the ras-le-bol been so deep. When a factor strikes, it is always reluctant; because he knows that he will have to catch up with the work afterwards, that the next day his bag will be twice as heavy, that he will have twice as many parcels to distribute and that a citizen will have waited for his mail in vain. I think this strike could have been avoided if management and government finally agreed to change their shoulder rifle; if finally, management and government took into account fundamental demands for workers. But no, leadership and government, still today, have only one obsession: privatization. Sick leave refused, unpaid overtime, hours incompatible with a family life, unworthy training, wages barely above the poverty line: this is what workers no longer want to accept. In other words, they demand nothing but the right to work decently. And when these conditions are finally met, I assure you that the problems of bpost recruitment will end on their own. The drop in mail accounts cannot justify everything. For the factor that has to distribute ten less letters but five more packages than last year, I assure you that the bag is no less heavy. It's not an accounting reality, it's just the daily reality. This strike movement is not just the struggle of the workers. It is also the fight for bpost to exercise its responsibilities as a public enterprise, quite simply. Delivering parcels, newspapers and mail are public services that benefit 11 million citizens, administrations and SMEs. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, have you met a single bpost worker who does not denounce working conditions? Do you hear the legitimate demands of the 33,000 bpost workers? Finally, will government mail, SME packages and press releases be distributed this week?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u14	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are here to discuss the same problem at post office. We are a few months away from the first intervention, but the situation has not improved. There is a social conflict and I think it is due to the fact that no action has been taken in recent months. The pressure on the site is killing me. There are 300 vacancies and 50 000 leave days open. Postmen don't get their rounds finished anymore and have to start early or work longer in the evening. Customers also experience the disadvantages of a company that is no longer functioning well, because birth cards or mourning letters are delayed. In fact, Minister, I am surprised that you state in the newspaper that you will not take any steps yourself. It's about corporate governance, you say, and so the board and the unions have to sort it out. You're gonna put your seat back a little bit and you're not gonna do anything. I do not think that is acceptable. The government is the largest shareholder. Last year you received a dividend of 132 million euros, so you can't convince me, the customers, or the employees that there is no money. Minister, as the largest shareholder, I ask you to demonstrate that you consider workable work to be important, including in the case of bpost. Give the signal that you find the current working conditions unacceptable. In concrete terms, I propose that you spend a quarter of the dividend, that is EUR 33 million, on the company itself, so that you can invest in workable work, in better working conditions for the staff. This also improves our society. Minister, are you prepared to accept our proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u15	Minister, the staff in recent years, confident in the interest that bpost will offer them in the long run, have accepted the increase in the workload due to the downsizing of staff and its slow rise in the face of the exploding workload. Then come the acquisition of Radial, less good financial results than expected, a dramatic fall in the stock market prices. To save the furniture vis-à-vis investors, bpost launches a social plan and separates 400 to 500 employees. This first breaks confidence and serves as a catalyst for all the unease accumulated because of the pressure on the work. Employees are tired of not being able to take recovery days, not being able to be replaced during absences, or having to catch up with what they have not been able to do. They're tired of being understaffed. If they have endured all this for a while, confidence is now broken: 90-95% of employees take part in the strike. This is a very clear message: the problem is general. A few minutes ago, you told the press that the conflict should not be engulfed. You were speaking to the unions, but also to the management. I think you need to do more than that, minister, because you are responsible for the strikes that are taking place now. In fact, last May, Mrs Fonck had asked for a social conciliator to be sent because there was already a social tension at the time. You didn't do anything about it. Moreover, as the main shareholder of bpost, you will scrape the drawer funds by taking a dividend equal to last year's, while the results are much less good. No member of the company understands why this money is not invested in the company to relieve the staff of its many tasks. Minister, what have you done to restore confidence? You can't stay in the balcony. What about the fast sending of a social conciliator? Why does the state receive a dividend equal to last year when the figures are very bad?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u16	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that all the questioners and you too share the concerns about the workload and the shortage of staff. I would like to give the voice of e-commerce in this respect. This government has done a lot for e-commerce. With Digital Belgium you stimulate the advance of innovation and then you get to e-commerce. We have made night work possible. From e-commerce groeit spectaculair, puts double digests. It is one of the few sectors with such growth and at last it is in our country. And then this happens... We see that a number of e-commerce companies are seeking relief from competition. They can only be said to be right. After all, these companies must ensure that their services do not stop because bpost stops. E-commerce is a sector in which many competitive players are active. In other words, e-commerce is a delivery economy and packages often have to be delivered. If bpost can't guarantee that today, e-commerce companies are looking for a solution to the competition. However, this is not so easy for all e-commerce players. Large companies usually succeed, even though we also hear from them alarms because they cannot simply change suppliers because this entails the necessary costs. There are a lot of small webshops, small e-commerce companies that depend entirely on bpost in their business model. The cessation of services at bpost should not lead to e-commerce taking a dip in our country. I therefore call on the government to pay attention to e-commerce and to deliver packages to customers. Indeed, the end-of-year period is the top of the year for e-commerce.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u17	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I may be kicking in an open door, but I will do it anyway, because it seems that some people are not yet fully aware of it. One has to be a bit eyesight blind not to see that bpost is a company that is in full transformation, as well as the market in which bpost operates. In the past, DPLP was a real public company, with a real civil servant's statute, but the evolution is now moving towards a truly private company, where competition is at the highest level, as a result of liberalisation and globalisation. One can, of course, continue to dream of this good, old monopoly time, but unfortunately reality is winning over the dream. As a result of this rapidly evolving postal market, bpost needs to adapt and to achieve maximum reconciliation between management and workers. Of course, this evolution must not lead to excessive pressure on workers and the union must play its part in this. We shall, of course, support the trade unions in this. However, I do wonder whether the weapon that is currently being used, in particular the strike that is currently being seized, is the right means of finding a solution. Has all the previous resources been exhausted in this dossier? I refer to the social dialogue, to a strike commitment, to negotiations or to any intervention by a social mediator. And above all, has the strike protocol been complied with? I believe that this is very important because the economic damage, which is not only for our economy in general, but even for bpost itself, is not unrealistic. Mr Minister, have the trade unions correctly complied with the strike protocol in this case? What measures have you taken to prevent the strike or to end it as soon as possible? Do you consider the appointment of a social mediator? Have you considered a minimum service? I am thinking of distributing letters of mourning. Do you already have an idea of the economic consequences of this strike?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u18	Mr President, Minister, the strike movement continues at bpost. A meeting between management and trade unions would be planned today. It is said that management would like to arrive at a solution in a few days. The CEO would like it to be as favourable to customers as to its employees. Workers' organisations report increased work, lack of staff, difficulties in taking leave, unbearable workload and outsourcing of services. Movement in sorting centres may affect factors, transport, administration and delivery of packages. This paralysis obviously has economic effects since there are delays in deliveries, cancellations of orders, we are even talking about delays in the delivery of the letters of the Justice FPS. The press referred to your intervention in this regard, Minister. Do you confirm that discussions are continuing positively between management and unions? What steps have you taken in the context of the social dialogue, which seems disastrous to bpost? If these steps do not succeed, what do you see as an initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u19	In weather and wind, every day, often while we are still in bed, the mailmen are already working to get us the packages we ordered the day before, to get us the tickets our friends sent us, to deliver us invoices, a pay slip or sometimes a mourning note. Last summer they had to do that in a lead heat, in winter in bitter cold. In weather and wind, every day, the postmen are there. Much respect for those postmen's job! And that's exactly what they're missing from the company. They feel no respect for their employer for the hard work they do every day, everywhere in the country, every day. A lot of people are pulling out. The reasons for this have already been mentioned: among other things, the workload has been greatly increased in recent years; there are too few staff; they are difficult to take up holidays; they have to step in for others, take over other rounds; they have working days from 9 a.m. to 12 noon. We have heard a few testimonies over the last few days. Luc from Puurs said he had worked through a temporary agency, got 10.24 euros gross per hour and worked 9 hours a day on average, of which only 7 hours and 36 minutes were paid. That is the reality on the ground. The strike, which has actually been unseen and announced, will not be resolved until urgent action is taken on the working conditions of our postmen and postwomen. By the way, they're not the only ones who pulled the alarm. A few weeks ago, we saw the actions of the baggage dealers. It may be easy to refer to the workers and to the trade unions, but it is high time for politics to come up with structural solutions to the working conditions of many workers in our country. In terms of workable work, the government has already missed many opportunities. Politicians also have a responsibility for this and must now take responsibility for finding solutions to the conflict. Minister, I only have one question for you. What is the reaction of the government, what is your response, to the complaints that led to the strike and to those social actions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u20	Minister, the second day in a row is stopped at bpost, day two without letters, newspapers, packages. The negotiations with the management on the new collective agreement are very difficult. Trade unions have been complaining for some time about the shortage of staff and the high workload. There is also concern about the so-called future plan of bpost. In the future, the management only wants the postmen to drive out every two or three days. The impact of the strike is particularly significant, not only for the citizens of the country but also for businesses. Some companies, such as Torfs and Coolblue, go to bpost's competitors for their packages. E-commerce is neither the solution nor the cause. E-commerce is on the rise in our country. There's a big demand for packages. Bpost has to prepare for that question. Minister, this reorientation is necessary for bpost, if bpost wants to remain a financially sound and socially relevant company. We hope that the management and trade unions will be able to reach an agreement quickly. There must of course be the will to do so and there must be confidence. We call on both parties to be reasonable. After all, the social conflict is not good for anyone. We also expect respect from the board for the postmen and other staff at bpost. Minister, I have two questions for you. Firstly, what is the state of play in the social conflict? Secondly, how can the situation be overcome in the interests of the workers of bpost and of the citizens and businesses in our country who rely on bpost?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u21	Minister Sophie, 29 years old, professor at bpost: "Rising up so early and spending the whole day outside is very difficult. The number of people I've seen passing here in nine years of service is not normal. We can no longer convert our overtime into days off because the department would collapse." Guido, 56, from the bpost transport service: "The system of teamwork has completely disappeared and we still barely have contact with each other. I wouldn't want to be a young worker here." Lou, 18 years of career at bpost: "We always have to go faster. In collection, agents need to speed up to get to customers on time. There are services where an officer is ill and at that time, it is the co-workers who tour. These overtime hours are not always handed over to the mailer. You always have to keep an eye on his payroll. It's hell!" Ladies and gentlemen, are these working conditions worthy of the 21st century for a public enterprise? For us, the answer is clear: no! What workers want to express today with this strike action, with this union action until November 12, is that it is not acceptable. We cannot now work under these conditions. A strike in a company, Minister, is always the result of a failure: a failure of social consultation, a failure to improve the working conditions of workers and a failure for management that fails to convince the strategic vision that it wants to promote. Minister, this is your failure too! This is your failure because unfortunately this situation is not new. We know it and you have done nothing to strengthen the social dialogue within bpost. It has been months, years, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, months, I have two clear and direct questions, Minister. What concrete actions do you intend to take so that the social dialogue can be revived within the company and trade union demands can be taken into account? What measures will management take to improve working conditions and recruit staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u22	Minister, on the night of Tuesday to Wednesday, I went to the sorting centre in Awans, where I met all these bpost workers. What struck me strongly was this pride in the profession, the pride in guaranteeing this public service, ensuring the delivery of parcels and the distribution of all these letters across the country. I felt this incredible pride but, at the same time, I must confess to being shocked at the working conditions that were told to me that night. On this evening, I made a commitment to come and tell you this reality, Minister, because I am convinced that you do not know it. That's impossible! Do you know that young people who are engaged there receive €1,180 a month? 1 180 euros per month! Who wants to work for 1 200 euros? Do you know that I've met at the sorting center someone who's been working for fourteen years on an acting basis. Quatorze ans! Fourteen years a contract is signed daily. Who wants to work for 14 years on the basis of an interim contract? I've met some ladies who work in the sorting center and have completely destroyed their backs. We can't stand to keep working like this anymore, they told me. How is it possible to work in such an atmosphere? I see we're wrong! At the level of the MR and the Open Vld, we do not know this reality!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u23	No, you don't know her! That's impossible! Go on! Go work for 1,400 euros no months!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, let us listen to Mr Hedebouw!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u25	They're nervous! They don't know anything about that reality!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hedebouw has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u27	Can you hear them, Mr. President? It's amazing, they have no respect for bpost workers. No respect for the employees of bpost. That's a disgrace. What a contempt for the workers! That's amazing! (Brouhaha on the benches of the MR and the Open Vld)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot continue in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u29	When we talk about tax fraud, we can't hear you! Can we still talk here? We are in democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u30	Time has stopped.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u31	Oui, time has stopped. Worse, the decision to abolish this annual bonus of 900 euros per year! It is these 900 euros, Minister, that allow these young people who work for 1,200 euros to have, on an annual basis, a more or less drinking wage. You're removing this bonus overnight. And who do we hear then? The CEO of the company, Mr. Van Gerven. What's he saying? He says the postmen have to get out of their comfort zone. Their comfort zone! It's beautiful! The CEO's salary is 848 843 euros per year, plus 282 866 euros for the company's good results, i.e. one million euros per year and he dares to say that...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u32	I'm asking you to conclude, Mr. Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u33	I was interrupted, Mr. President. Let me therefore continue my intervention. This type dares to say that bpost workers have to get out of their comfort zone. I ask Minister De Croo here to take a stand in favour of the bpost workers. As the appropriate minister, you are obliged, Minister, to say today that bpost salaries must be increased and that additional staff must be hired to ensure that the pace of work is sustainable. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, I attach great importance to the fact that our public enterprises, and especially bpost, can work independently. It's not up to politics to run a postal company. If I heard from some of you, it wouldn't last very long. I sat this afternoon with the unions and the management because it is important that I listen to what the problems are on the ground. After listening to them, I gave them two messages. First of all, I said that I understood the difficulties on the ground. It is obvious that there are workload problems. These are rooted in the lack of staff. Bpost encounters many difficulties in recruiting staff, especially in the Brussels region, on the coast and in Antwerp. I made it clear to the bpost management that additional efforts should be made to recruit additional workers. The lack of staff has an impact on the quality of service and on how to work, often under conditions that are not those expected of a company as a bpost. I also said to both that we should look at the broader context: that of a company in a market that is changing very quickly. We all send far less letters together and we receive many more packages. In the last quarter, the number of packages increased by 25%. Citizens and many customers expect a good service from a company as a bpost. To close our eyes to this would mean declaring the company a bird for the cat. I don't see who would have anything to gain from that. In recent years, bpost has made a good journey, based on the work of all workers, but also on good social relations. I wanted to underline this fact. These social relations were at the heart of the functioning of bpost. So I clearly asked management and everyone around the table to reconnect with these good social relationships. Based on what I heard, I think the spirit around the table was pretty positive. I hope that the people around this table can reconnect with these good relationships and find solutions to those concerns that are relevant. I will conclude with a final message I have given, particularly in order not to rush the conflict. Bringing the conflict to its peak doesn't solve anything. People have to sit around the table and talk to each other, but don't strike. It is only by talking to each other that we will find a solution, otherwise there will be many victims: the company, all employees and ultimately also society, which relies on a company as a bpost of which we as a government are of course shareholders. One must be careful not to cut through the branch on which one sits. It is in everyone's interest to find solutions together. I assume that the people sitting around the table today will be able to find a solution to the problems facing bpost today. I hope that people will talk and end the strike as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u35	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, at last you met them! I asked you in the spring, in the summer. It took days of strike for you to meet them and assume your responsibilities. I asked you to intervene, but you took a step forward today, and I thank you, because yesterday, again in committee, the majority refused to hear the workers' representatives, not during the social conflict but afterwards. I think we need to prepare for the future in order to avoid these same difficulties. That today, here, we had to demand that bpost assume its public service responsibilities, that is to say, the deterioration in the level of respect this government has had for workers. You have to be able to say it today. I had a time, not very long ago, when what was expected of a public enterprise, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, was to be a model especially for men and women who are in his service every day. Minister, it was time for you to remind bpost that she is primarily at the service of the public and not the shareholders. And I associate myself with the tribute that is paid to the workers. The bpost force is these thousands of workers who are proud to work there and who get up very early in the morning. It is a company which never sleeps and which offers services expected throughout the territory, from the Belgian coast, where it is difficult to recruit, in Antwerp until the end of Luxembourg where one waits for his mail. Bpost is a public company that must remain a model. I ask you to continue the contacts so that we can emerge from this crisis and regain the full power of this public enterprise of which we can legitimately be proud.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say today that you have taken note of the working conditions and that the working conditions are poor. You say that one should not cut off the branch on which one sits. But when the staff finds that the branch on which it is sitting is rotting, it has to act. That has nothing to do with cutting off a branch on which one sits; then there is a structural problem. Some colleagues refer to the profits. At bpost it still comes from the letter post. Despite growth, the parcel market is still losing. Also pay attention to the transition that is going on in the company. Hence my demand to invest in people and in the company. When in the early 2000s a liberal minister was CEO of all public companies, but did nothing with bpost, there were most strike days. Afterwards, a misguided socialist minister invested in the company. A huge amount of money was invested in new working procedures, with the result that we are almost the only one in Europe to have a performant postal company. Focus on 2030. Invest in people and your organization today. Again, as a government, you have received 132 million euros per year from bpost. Make sure you invest 25% of this, in particular EUR 33 million, in its future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u37	Minister, we have often criticized you for being on the balcony on this issue and not getting involved as such. You have told us of meetings during which you have tried to restore confidence. I deeply regret that you have not told us a word about the reasons why the state had maintained its level of dividends when the situation is what it is, and that the figures show very bad conditions. You didn't say a word about it, but it's your main lever to act. Why not withdraw some of the dividends in order to reinvest them in working conditions? You yourself say that this sector must remain competitive. It is known that competition is very strong, especially in the delivery of packages. You could make this very strong gesture and decide differently for dividends. Bpost was an economic success story and an example of social consultation. We ask you to preserve these two achievements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u38	Minister, you are absolutely right to say that driving bpost is the last thing you need to do. In this legislature, the government and Parliament have also prepared bpost for privatisation. In our opinion, ordering letters and delivery of packages is not a public task. We do not want to go back to the time of the RTT, in which people had to be in politics to get a telephone line installed at home. The letter delivery is becoming a competitive field. The transition will lead to a logistics player in e-commerce. However, as I raised my question, we all share the concerns about the staff shortage and the workload. In your last phrase you warned not to cut off the branch on which one sits. This means that this company needs to be brought into transition and ready to be a logistics player in e-commerce. That's a competitive field where a government has no business.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u39	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. It is to your credit that you have taken the necessary initiatives to intervene in the social conflict, because the impasse cannot continue. If the employer, management and trade unions do not get out of it, then I think the government will have to intervene, because at the moment it is not only the branch on which one sits but even the whole tree that is being cut down. In that context, I am not just looking at the interests of the employees themselves, who seem to be destroying their own company...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u40	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u41	Let Mr Van der Donkt speak, please. Mr Van der Donkt has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u42	Mr. Calvo, hold on a second. If you had just listened, you would have heard that I said that well-being in the workplace is of course also important. However, strikes will not get the workers there, so they will not make the company healthier or more competitive, which is, however, necessary. We must avoid that there are more losers than winners in that dossier. At the moment, during the period of strike, there is only one big winner, PostNL. Bpost has the ability to win himself. That is what we must ensure and work for. Mr Hedebouw, you are quoting an example of fourteen years of interim work. That must have been with the approval of the trade unions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u43	Minister, thank you for confirming the contacts you have maintained. We knew it, but it is not necessary to make a media show when acting in the shadows: no interference in the company, but special attention. You pointed out the difficulties, you noted the problem of recruiting staff, you made recommendations for the restoration of social peace and dialogue. Everyone now has to take responsibility, both unions and management. As an observer and actor, if the situation does not change positively, you will have to go further in the initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u44	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is an interesting debate. On the one hand, I am reassured by the rather atoning tone of the Minister who says he wants to try to resolve the conflict, who understands the difficult work situation in the field and who says that staff should also be recruited. On the other hand, I hear from the groups of the majority, the Liberals, the N-VA, Mrs Ceysens, Mr Van der Donkt, a very different message, no understanding of the strike. I challenge you: go on the road, get up at 4:00 or 4:30 in the morning, do a round by bike or moped in the wind and then come back here. Then I hear the real liberal agenda, Mr Van Biesen, from Mrs Ceysen. Actually, the message is: away with bpost, stop that company, we privatize everything and everything will be better. That is the agenda I have heard from the Liberals. Well, that'll be without us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u45	Minister, it is a good thing that you have started talking to the management and the trade unions. You say that the conflict must not be rushed. Yes, but the board must also show more respect for the staff because this strike did not fall out of the sky. Nor is it the first strike in recent years at bpost. All parties must take responsibility for reaching an agreement as soon as possible. Minister, we must not close our eyes to reality. The mail is shrinking and the parcel market is growing. I think Bpost should prepare for this. In the interests of the company and the interests of the staff, doing nothing seems to me not an option. We must do something, but we must do it in dialogue and with respect for the workers. I would like to call on some colleagues to show more respect for the postmen who work every day in difficult circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u46	Minister, thank you for your answer. Like other colleagues, I am pleased that you have been at the discussion table, where I hope you will have been able to contribute to the return of social dialogue within this undertaking. This is an initiative that I can only welcome. That said, in the last six months, the colleagues in your majority have - I insist - refused three times in committee to listen and even receive the unions. We heard - and that's logical - the CEO last June and talked very openly with him at length. I've been talking about the last six months. Consequently, the systematic refusal of the majority to receive trade unions was expressed well before the notice of strike was filed. It's shameful! We cannot accept this signal sent by the majority to workers. Secondly, some colleagues in the majority systematically oppose innovation and social conditions. However, they cannot be regarded as antagonists. For us environmentalists, it is very clear that the social and economic model of bpost must evolve, as innovation undoubtedly represents an advantage, but must not be done on the back of workers. It is by combining optimal social conditions, quality of work and innovation that bpost will advance and become a pioneering and exemplary public enterprise. That is what we want: to invest in human resources and personnel!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u47	Minister, you say that both sides need to talk more. Do you have any idea how long the CEO stayed at the last reconciliation meeting with the trade unions? Did he tell you or not? He stayed for 45 minutes. You say we need to talk, but the CEO only stayed for 45 minutes, because he had another important meeting, ladies and gentlemen. You didn't know that, did you? There's a five-day strike going on, but Bpost's CEO said he had another important meeting and kicked it off after 45 minutes. Dear Minister, we are clearly dealing here with a CEO who does not have any plans for a social investment at bpost. We're dealing with a CEO who's just provoking. He says the postmen have to step out of their comfort zone. Minister, I would ask you to send a clear signal. It cannot go on like this, because in our model of society, it cannot be that more and more workers are simply destroying themselves in the name of competition. This new economy will require total flexibility and poor wages. That's not the society they want. Bpost must therefore indicate the tone for an upward spiral, rather than a downward spiral towards poor working conditions in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u48	Mr. President, Madam Minister, the tobacco lobby sabbed champagne last week. Indeed, by lowering the fines on illegal tobacco advertising from 80,000 to 2,000 euros, you have called on the tobacco lobby to persevere in its circumvention of legislation. At home, however, smoking continues to kill 15 thousand people every year. In Belgium, we were a precursor to tobacco control. Today, studies prove that we are lagging behind. With this new measure, we are witnessing a setback in this struggle. On the other hand, it is dramatic to see that more and more young people are attracted to tobacco. A study conducted in different countries has shown that almost 20% of 15-year-olds smoke every day. Madam Minister, I read in the press that you said that you did not touch age or the ban on smoking in certain places. All right, as if advertising was an annex! However, advertising is not annoyed. Various studies show that advertising has adverse health effects, both physical and mental. It causes stress, obesity, anorexia, anxiety, and I pass it. It is also known that young people are more sensitive to advertising. The advertisers and the tobacco lobby know that well. The strategy of cigar makers is not to change a branded tobacco consumer but to convince new smokers. Where are they going to get them? Among the most fragile categories, young people! With this possibility of even better circumvention of the legislation, you offer on a silver platter at the tobacco lobby the opportunity to seduce these young people. Minister, why did you take this step? How do you intend to thwart the strategies of tobacco multinationals, especially with regard to young audiences?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u49	Madam Minister, in October of this year, following tense debates in committee, I strongly opposed you, the majority and the government, because you have endorsed what has probably been the most important step backwards in the fight against tobacco in the last 15 years. As one man, the majority rejected the amendment that I had tabled with the intention of introducing a complete ban on tobacco advertising. If I ask you again today, it is because you have had the nerve, in the press, to justify the unjustifiable by claiming to have introduced a new fine. This is obviously not the case, since you have simply increased the fine from EUR 80 000 to EUR 2 000 in case of non-compliance with the ban on tobacco advertising. Mr Van Quickenborne, do not act like that, you were not in the committee concerned. As Minister of Health, it was your responsibility to introduce a complete ban on advertising. You're doing the opposite. Your responsibility is not to encourage the sale of tobacco in small businesses – which sell 80% of the tobacco sold – but rather to adopt support measures for them. Are you finally going to change your strategy? Can we finally count on the majority to work in the Committee on Health on texts on tobacco control? I will come back with my bill and I dare hope, minister, that you will act first as a Minister of Health and not as a clear advocate of tobacco.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u50	I am very surprised that so much attention has been paid to this measure. Some newspapers – like you, Mrs. Fonck – have given the impression that I am taking a step backwards in the fight against tobacco. Actually, it's the opposite. My intention was to provide us with more opportunities to sanction infringements of the rules on tobacco advertising. Until recently, fines were the same for all, with a single rate. My services were unable to distinguish between a tobacco manufacturer or wholesaler and a local newspaper salesman. Fines ranged from a minimum of 80,000 euros to a maximum of 800,000 euros, with the result that only a few percent of the fine has been claimed in recent years, the rest being suspended by the courts, because it is disproportionate. The FPS Public Health Inspection Service drew my attention to this situation and requested an adjustment. I had to expand the fine system. Only in retail trade is the minimum fine reduced to EUR 10 000. On the other hand, the maximum amount is maintained at EUR 800,000. For all other players, the tobacco industry and wholesalers, the fines are unchanged. To say that I'm cleaning up the tobacco actors is totally absurd. Ask them what they think about our measures and the introduction of the neutral package! As a result of this adaptation, we are able to make effective reminders in retail businesses and effectively combat tobacco advertising offences.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u51	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I see once again that the legislation is complex, and the action you have just taken does not simplify it. The lobbies of cigar manufacturers, as clever as they are, use the ambiguity of the legislation to circumvent it and use this complexity to benefit from transitional periods delaying the removal of illegal devices. We play cat and mouse, and inspectors don't have enough resources to enforce the law. Madam Minister, I would ask you simply to remove the derogations from the ban on tobacco advertising and to give inspectors the means to do their job.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u52	Madam Minister, we will never agree on this matter! You know, or rather pretend not to know, that advertising remains one of the major levers in the hands of cigar makers to encourage as many young people as possible to start smoking, and thus to recruit as many new customers as possible. For the Minister of Health that you are, only one measure was required: a ban on advertising. Belgium has made a commitment to do so to the World Health Organization for more than ten years. The result of the races: this commitment is still not respected. You're even doing exactly the opposite since you're going back in the matter. The decision you made, the decision of your majority, is not worthy of public health policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u53	Minister, your term of office in the Department of Pensions is definitely very difficult. Nothing's going on anymore! Point pension: frozen. Solidarity contribution: swept away. Half-time pension: missed. Penitence: rejected. It was so predictable. You have been told and repeated: you have worked wrong and backwards. At the beginning of the legislature, you took hard, unfair and without real consultation, built on a lie, such as the unannounced postponement of the legal age of pension to 67 years. This measure taken at the beginning of the legislature concerns everyone. And now, at the end of the legislature, the promised adjustments to this measure are in practice. At the time, you wanted to be reassuring. You said it would be taken into account the penitibility. Today, there is no agreement on the part of the social partners or of the parties of your majority on the list of difficult jobs. Workers and pensioners who have come down by tens of thousands on the streets must be even more worried today than ever before. Minister, can you say this afternoon to a nurse, looking in her eyes, that she will not work until she is 67 years old? Can you say the same to a metallo, to a nursery, to a mason? In fact, you reformed the pensions on their backs, to benefit the pension funds. My question is simple and clear. Will you finally come back to reason and listen to the social partners and pensioners? Will you come back with a comprehensive reform that takes into account healthy life expectancy, which is barely 65 years old?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u54	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, here we are again. We questioned you three weeks ago about the heavy-duty professions. It remains a story that we have to talk about over and over again. It starts in 2015, when you raise the retirement age to 67 years. This had to be done very quickly by Parliament. You remember the night meetings that we had to go through in order to get through this quickly. Many colleagues from the opposition said that working up to 67 years is impossible for a number of professions. This is impossible for nurses, construction workers and postmen. Each time your answer was that we did not have to worry, because there would be an exception for the heavy professions. Moreover, you said in 2015 that the criteria would be laid down and that there would be an agreement on the heavy professions by the end of that year. Minister, it is 2018 and we do not have an agreement. I think everyone agrees that raising the age is unfair for everyone. For people with a high degree the expected life years in health at the time they are 50 years are on average 21 years. For low-educated people, that's 13 years. This means that low-skilled people from 63 years of age are beginning to have health problems. Minister, you must convince us that working up to 67 years is not feasible for everyone. You do not have an agreement because you said that this should fit within a budget envelope. You determined the criteria afterwards. First the budget and then the criteria. This is being lifted very heavily by the Council of State. This means, after all, that we are working in reverse. It is therefore normal that no agreement could be reached. Minister, what are you going to do now? You say you have an agreement for the government staff. You have no agreement at all. Two trade unions had an agreement with you, but immediately the Open Vld and the N-VA disagreed. Then there was the circus with the list. Is the list part of the chord, or isn't it? My questions are therefore brief and concise. Do you have a list? Is the list part of the chord? What are you going to do with the private sector? In what way are you going to record these heavy-duty professions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u55	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we agree on a matter: we have been working on a fairer pension system since 2011. By working a little longer, we want to give everyone a better pension. That's philosophy. We are doing this because we do not want to scare people for their old age and also want to give the next generations the guarantee of a good pension. We all know, of course, that people who have not been able to study and have done a heavy job for years cannot continue until the normal retirement age. That is why we believe that there should be a regulation for these heavy-duty professions. That's social. However, such a system must be objective and fair. Objective means that it must be objectively possible to prove that a profession is actually difficult. In other words, it must be a really difficult task. This does not mean that long lists should be drawn up whereby those who are properly represented on the list will have to pay the price, while others will have to pay the price. The system must also be fair. In other words, it must be equal for employees, self-employed and civil servants. There should be no different rules for these different groups. Minister, there is also a need for honesty. Those who claim and continue to claim here today, week after week, that everyone will have to work for up to 67 years, lie. Those who start working from 18, 19 or 20 years old will be able to stop at 65 years in 2030. That's the reality, still. People who study or start working at 21 or 22 years will have to work longer. That's right. But that is about a certain group, not about the people who are referred to here. Colleagues, to be honest, these lies here sometimes hang out my throat. Minister, the social partners have again tried to find an agreement. They didn't make it again. The ball is now in the government's camp, in your camp. The question is how, before the elections of 26 May 2019, will you reach an agreement that is social, objective and fair? How are you gonna do that? I am very curious, along with many others, to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u56	Mr President, Minister, the coupeet fell yesterday. The social partners have not been able to agree and define a clear line in the area of recognition of hardship in the private sector. This is regrettable for two main reasons. On the one hand, because at the level of the public sector, a pre-agreement has been reached. This pre-agreement was even validated by two out of three unions at the end of social negotiations. I will obviously not trace the whole history. However, I would like to point out that this issue has been on the table for the past two years, that progress has been made, such as the definition of the criteria of penitibility by the National Pension Committee, the budgeting for the recognition of penitibility, and the conclusion of an agreement for the public sector. On the other hand, this situation is truly regrettable in that you cannot be blamed for having encouraged the consultation between the social partners in the National Labour Council. They have, in principle, two months to deliver an opinion. You have postponed the deadline several times by setting the deadline for 15 November next. But it must be noted that this is a failure and that the positions now appear to be as divergent as they are irreconcilable. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to hear from you about the state of social dialogue at this stage and your analysis of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u57	I don't see Mr. Maingain. I call Mrs Becq.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u58	Minister, we have heard from the press that there would have been a divided opinion in the National Labour Council Bureau for the private sector on the regulation of the heavy-duty professions, but there is actually a proposal on the table for the public sector. The trade unions have stuck their necks out there and have made a proposal with you for a number of professions on the basis of the agreed criteria. There was also a divided opinion for the self-employed sector. However, the representatives of this sector have managed to put forward work slopes and thus indicate what they think concreteisation should look like. Minister, I believe that you and the Prime Minister should be able to take the lead. You need to consider it important not to go further with a divided opinion and to ensure that there can be effective consensus and support. After all, this government has committed itself. Further to the achievements of the previous legislature, there has been a further strengthening of longer work. The age of 67 and 66 has been put forward effectively but a period of 45 years remains a full career. This means that one should not continue to work until 67 if one already has a full career. In addition, this is 2030. The commitment was to compensate for this longer working in the long term through a system for the heavy professions. This government has taken that commitment and we believe it is important that it be implemented further. It must be carried out from a common basis of support. We need to make sure that the people involved carry it with them. I am thinking here of two of the three trade unions that have stuck their necks out for the public sector agreement. At the same time, it is equally important that there should be a common regime for both employees, the self-employed and the public authorities so that there is no discrimination. One must be on the same line effectively. It is equally important in this whole story that the special regime of tantiemes should not be reversed before the heavy professions are regulated. This is an important factor in the conditions for reaching an agreement. Minister, in what way will you continue to work on this dossier in order to arrive effectively at a supported proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u59	Minister, you say that union organizations have said that everyone should be working until the age of 67. At the beginning of the legislature, you said that only 5 to 10 per cent of people would have to work until they were 67 years old. Today, you still haven't been able to prove that figure. Actually, it's not based on anything. As for lies that have been made to the population, you yourself put forward the figure from 5 to 10%. Even if women do not have this 42-year-old career that would allow them to leave earlier. Now you're really lying. In fact, you are unable to demonstrate that it will be only 5% to 10%. The reason is very simple: the question of the number of people who will have to work up to 67 is currently being negotiated. At the beginning of the legislature, you made a lie. You had to respond to all these people worried about raising the pension age to 67. First question, Minister: are you already more advanced on the facts supporting this figure of 5 to 10%? Your Prime Minister told us about the fact-check. What facts do you have to prove that it will be only 5 to 10 percent? Second question: you have announced that there will be no loss of pension. There are two aspects to the multiplier coefficient, one of which is that of age at retirement and which we are debating today. Can you confirm that someone who takes a 60-year-old pension, with 38 years of career, will actually lose a pension? This coefficient will not affect the amount of the pension. The pre-pension system, together with pre-pensions, provided for a global assimilation on the career. Can you confirm that someone with a career of 60-38, 60-39 or 60-40, for example, will lose pension well compared to the previous regulation? The third question: on the subject of penitibility, it is very clear that, at 67 years of age, almost all trades will be difficult, in a productive economy as we know it today. When one is 67 years old, all jobs become heavy. That's exactly the problem! In view of this inequality in relation to death which colleagues spoke of here earlier – eighteen years of different life expectancy depending on the degree obtained – will you now take a stand for the workers in this case or will you, before the end of the legislature, take the position of the employer? That's the question I want to ask you, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Like you, I have obviously learned of the failure of negotiations between employers and trade unions on the definition of a list of difficult jobs in the private sector. I recall that the opinion of the National Labour Council, which will therefore be divided, must be delivered to me by November 15, 2018. It will be communicated to me on November 14. In this way, the opinions of the various partners will be clearly expressed on paper and we will be able to have a better knowledge of them. Of course, I regret this failure. It had come back to me that the discussions between the social partners were rather constructive. Their duration, already five months, could legitimately give rise to the hope that an agreement, at least on certain elements, could be reached. The social dialogue on this reform was extended. I would remind you that the first discussions with the social partners on the heavy duties were launched in October 2015, immediately after the establishment of the National Pension Committee (NPC). On 12 September 2016, these discussions resulted in a report setting out, inter alia, the four categories of criteria for penitibility. At the beginning of 2017, the social partners in the private sector indicated their willingness to continue discussions on the definition and implementation of the criteria of penitibility in pension regulations. In October, after nine months of discussion, it had to be noted, already at the time, that the views were too far apart. However, discussions continued constructively between the authorities and representatives of civil service unions in the Public Sector Commission within the National Pensions Committee. These talks allowed the NPC Secretariat to draw up a synthesis note, which is the basis of the draft law on the taking into account of the heavy functions. This bill was then agreed with two of the three unions represented on Committee A. I'm talking about the bill. I note that consultation with civil service unions has led to significant progress, while cooperation between the social partners in the private sector has proved to be much more difficult. I will of course report the opinion of the National Labour Council to the government's partners, which will decide on the action to be taken. I would also like to meet with the social partners in order to measure their differences and all the nuances of the different points of view. In reply to Mrs Becq's questions, I would like to stress that, according to the notification of the decision of the Council of Ministers, which approves the draft law at first reading, tantiemes and preferential schemes will only be abolished when the Royal Decree establishing the list of serious public sector functions comes into force. Moreover, this is a commitment made by the government in the framework of the protocol agreement concluded within the A Committee. The notification also guarantees the conformity in both the public and private sectors of the recognised heavy functions. Having heard Mr Hedebouw, I would also like to reiterate that, on the basis of the new provisions, the worker who decides to anticipate his retirement will not receive a lesser amount of pension. Indeed, the bill does not change the way it is calculated. He will receive a pension calculated – at the time of retirement – based on the number of years of career, as has always been the case. If, on the other hand, the worker receiving recognition of heavy work chooses to continue his professional career, he will be entitled to a pension higher than that he enjoys today. Mr Daerden, you referred to the opinions of the Management Committee of the Federal Pension Service on the partial pension and the solidarity contribution. I will be frank with you, I have the impression that some members of the Management Committee are more interested in the policy than in the defence of the interests of those they represent. There are even some who propose to build electoral lists in the upcoming elections and who are more concerned with their tweets and Facebook than with the management of the Committee. The work of the Management Committee is obviously affected by this. When I read the latest opinions of the Management Committee, I sometimes ask myself questions about the proper understanding of the files. In any case, it is not the press releases issued at the end of the Management Committee that will prevent me from moving these two essential and positive projects forward for many of our fellow citizens, because I believe that there are times when we must be able to take responsibility and make the general interest take precedence over any other consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u61	Minister, you are critical of the workers' representatives on the Management Committee. Here, on penitibility, it was the representatives of the employers who slammed the door! Minister, at last listen to the world of work! You're going to meet him and I'm looking forward to it. I hope you finally listen to him! Just look at the reality! Our pensions are among the lowest in Europe. One out of every two women pensioners survives below the poverty line. You cannot force yourself to work beyond healthy life expectancy. You can't force workers to exchange their health for a pension bonus, because that's what you want to set up. You cannot unblock the first pension pillar for the benefit of private insurers. Minister, come back to reason! Remove the pension deferral at age 67! Stop ignoring the demands of workers and pensioners! Mr Bacquelaine, it is time to change pension software!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u62	As an accountant, Minister, you have set out the failure here. You have mentioned the history of what has happened in recent months. We were able to read all of that in the paper, and you weren't supposed to explain it to us. The concern of the people, however, you have not removed at all. You're not gonna solve anything. You say you'll look into it with the government. What exactly will you be looking at? Is there an agreement on public services, yes or no? Did you answer that? No. Is there an agreement on the list? Is this part of the deal? Did you answer that? No. You leave everything in the dark, to speak of the private sector. You say that the social partners do not know what they are talking about. Well, perhaps you should reread the Council of State's opinion. What does the Council of State decide on your project? The Council of State states that, in view of the frequent questions concerning the conformity of certain parts, the preliminary draft law as a whole should be subject to a thorough additional examination. Once again, Minister, people expect a clear answer from you. Those who exercise a heavy occupation still do not know how long they will have to work. That's what you're supposed to do as a minister, not blame someone else. You are responsible for this and you are expected to receive an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u63	Mr Minister, I found it quite interesting that you mentioned the history of this dossier, because the public will find out why things have to drag on for so long in this country. With all sympathy, but if the reforms on pensions had been left to the social partners, then probably not much would have happened in this legislature. That is the reality! Next, I think it is good and important that you specifically said that the public sector and the private sector will be treated equally. In the past, it's been different. We need to get rid of privileges that can't last. Mrs Becq, you referred to the tantièmes and you said that the government agreed to abolish the tantièmes only when there was an agreement on this arrangement. I agree with that, provided, however, that the rules on the heavy-duty professions do not become tantieme rules. If it is simply a question of replacing the tantièmes of the past, of 1844, with new tantièmes, under the name of heavy professions, we are not participating. Reform is only a reform if something is changed, not if everything remains the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u64	Minister, thank you for all this information. I have heard that you are now waiting for the NTC's reasoned opinion, which will allow you to better understand the reasons for this failure and to analyse the differences of opinion that have led to it. Without this, I agree, minister, that it is impossible for you today to define the course of action you are going to take on this issue. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, but also the social partners, that it is in the interests of all workers and future pensioners to be able to find a comprehensive solution in order to recognise penitibility. This must be done outside of any partisan ideology and electoral calendar, with a view to valuing this penitence, which can be taken into account for early retirement or for further improvement in pension rights. In short, the worker's well-being is at the end of his career.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u65	Minister, you say you will meet the social partners. You also mentioned the need to take responsibility. Now, a minister, a government that does so, ensures that its decisions respond to the questions on the ground and can count on maximum support. This also means, Mr Van Quickenborne, that they do so in consultation with the social partners, the employers and the workers. After all, we think it is important that there is indeed a support for the chosen approach in society. Even if the process lasts a little longer, I still think it is important, Mr Van Quickenborne. Why do I think that's important and I'm referring to your story of the tantiemes? That is because I think it is more important that the reform really benefits all those who are doing heavy work than to say that we have abolished it and have been able to hurt the officials.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u66	Minister, you should be above the fray. However, the first thing you do in giving your answer is to castigate the FGTB representative on the management committee, to demonstrate that he is not there to defend the interests of the workers. While it is the opposite that happens with all the figures that he has put forward! In fact, that's what bothers you! For three or four years, with the job he's been doing, he's been breaking down your reform point by point, with figures that you can't refute. You're upset about that. It is petty to want to target the man when you, as a minister, should be above the melee and act first in the interests of all the workers. In addition, you were unable to answer the question about 5 and 10 per cent up to 67 years of age. Your answer was already prepared. It's a question of how you know our questions in advance! You do not know how to answer this question because it is the current issue of debates, how many people will benefit from an exception. You indicate that the envelope set at 70 million will be closed but this envelope does not allow you to judge which occupation will be affected according to the penitibility. This is proof that you come with an economic and financial dogma, without any concern for the well-being of the worker. I sincerely hope that you will change your policy in the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u67	The response will be provided by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u68	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, as you know, I wanted to ask the Prime Minister my question. Indeed, this is an important issue since it concerns the increase in the price of petrol and diesel, which is becoming unbearable. So I am very angry that the Prime Minister refused to answer my question. You're the Minister of Finance. I therefore assume that, for the government, the issue of gasoline and diesel is, above all, a matter of money and finance. I wanted to ask a question about ecological alternatives, about indexing. But it is you who are here to answer me only on the business aspect. I do not agree with the decision that has been made. But I am still going to ask you my question, even though I find it unacceptable that the Prime Minister refuses to answer a question that concerns all Belgians. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is serious. The increases are huge: 20.8 per cent increase for diesel, 10 per cent increase for petrol. Today, when you make a lot of gas, you "give" the extra 5 or 6 euros. It is true that I am not convinced that you feel them all passing! As Members of Parliament, you earn 5,000 euros a month. But for people who earn 1,300 or 1,400 euros, 5 or 6 euros more per full, it's huge. We have done the calculation, ladies and gentlemen. This will cost an additional EUR 300 per worker per year while no ecological alternatives are offered to these workers who must be at 6 a.m. in their workplace, who must ensure the movement of their children, etc. The question is what solution to the problem? The PTB has one for you. In the 1990s, there was a very clear mechanism, which was that of automatic wage indexation, which also included increases in gasoline and diesel. That made sense! It's not up to the worker to pay for inflation. It is not up to the worker to pay the price increases. So, gasoline and diesel must be taken back into the housewife's basket. But political parties – and they were not just right-wing political parties – decided to provide a health index and to remove gasoline and diesel from the index, allegedly for people's health. That means, ladies and gentlemen, that all increases in fuel are no longer reflected in wages, which is completely unacceptable. Minister, what do you think of reintroduction of gasoline and diesel into indexing so that wage increases go hand in hand with the real increase in the cost of living?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you certainly know that an increase in the price of petrol is mainly determined by what is happening in the markets for raw oil. For about two years, there has been an increase from $40 to $80, as it was a month ago. Today, it is about $70, which will be reflected in the coming days and months. Indeed, there is an effect on purchasing power, an effect which in the health index system falls outside indexation and wage adjustment. Meanwhile, there was also the tax shift. The tax shift was approved in the summer of 2015 and will be in its final rollout phase early next year. This means that at the beginning of 2019 someone with a minimum wage will increase net 31 euros per month. A person with an average salary will receive 23 euros per month. Overall, this means that someone with a minimum wage will receive EUR 1 752 per year. I have just heard you mention a figure on increased petrol prices, which for a large part reflect a much higher international price, which is now in decline. That figure is slightly less than the EUR 1 752 I have just mentioned. I still have a small figure, which is very important, particularly the increase in real disposable income. Mr Hedebouw, a real disposable income is an income after inflation, and therefore after taxes. A tax is only a loss of purchasing power if it reflects itself in a price increase. The increase in real disposable income this year, not according to the Planning Bureau, will be 1.8 % and 1.9 % next year. I therefore believe that in terms of purchasing power, also with the increase in energy prices, people are still making real progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u70	Mr President, Minister, the Flemings will really like to hear an N-VA minister say that purchasing power is increasing and that people dream about what they feel about the petrol pump. Life goes on fine and purchasing power increases. How could you tell me that here? It's just not possible. You're talking about numbers, well, I'll give you figures. You say that it is the world market that determines the figures. That's not true at all. The real determining factor is the profits of the petroleum companies. These profits have never been so high: ExxonMobil has never had such a big profit last year with 15.4 billion euros; Shell had a profit of 10.5 billion euros; BP of 2.7 billion and Total Fina had a profit of 6.7 billion euros. It's just business. Where does that money come from, dear N-VAs? Out of the Flemish pockets. And what are you doing? Nothing. You're talking about the tax shift, but that tax shift is just getting eaten up. You said, Minister, that wages are simply blocked and that the index does not take into account the high price of petroleum products. Mr Minister, let wages rise at the same level as inflation and the price of petroleum products, and not fall, because we have no money left!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u71	Madam Minister, yesterday the WWF in our house presented worrying figures on trade in protected species of animals and plants and on ivory trade and transit. The world's elephant population is on the brink of abyss. In the early 19th century there were 26 million elephants. Now, depending on the source, there are 300 000 to 500 000. If we know that 30 000 elephants are slaughtered every year for their ivory, then there is no doubt that their number is falling even further. Poaching and international ivory trafficking are controlled by criminal and terrorist organisations, which earn billions of euros a year. African countries have been asking Europe to close its internal ivory market for years, but with little success. Only exports of raw ivory were prohibited by the European Commission in July 2017. In June, our group tabled a bill to severely restrict ivory trade in this country. We advocate a ban on imports and exports of ivory, subject to certain specific exceptions. We want to ban the trade in raw ivory, as well as the trade in processed ivory before 1975. We are also asking for the penalties for ivory smuggling to be increased. Soon the United Kingdom will adopt one of the strictest ivory laws in the world. Imports, exports and internal trade in ivory were also severely restricted in France and the Netherlands. The question is whether our current Belgian rules are still suitable for today's wave of poaching. It certainly should not be the intention to culpabilise the owners of ivory or to impose excessive restrictions on the sale of antique ivory or family property. Nor is it intended to criticise the Belgian CITES service. He's doing a very good job. Our intention is only to look at how we can give that service further tools to carry out controls. Even though you have already taken action to strengthen the CITES service, the figures from the WWF indicate that we can do even more, both at national and European level. What additional initiatives will you take to curb ivory trade, both at Belgian and European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u72	Mr Janssen, one of my priorities so far has been the creation of a new inspection cell of Species, which combines the controls to be carried out under the CITES Convention, which regulates international trade in ivory, invasive alien species and the European Wood Regulation. The eight inspectors and inspectors are now trained and fully operational. The results have already been achieved, particularly in the field of ivory trade. The total ban must be seen as an ultimate solution and must be done at least at European level. A total ban carries the risk of increasing prices and making ivory even more attractive to bracing. Nor should it be said that with a total ban, we will be rid of the problem. Traffic control will always have to exist and will perhaps be more difficult because this visible grip of legal trade will no longer be available. We have already observed in fact, for rhinocero horns, that this type of measure has no impact on the reduction of poaching in the countries of origin. It is necessary to control the legality of sales in Belgium and to support countries that house elephant populations so that they can fight poaching locally and develop conditions that make this trade less attractive. My inspectors are completing a campaign focused on ivory, during which they check that each item proposed for sale in the controlled establishments in Belgium is accompanied by appropriate documents. Of the 46 cases opened for 24 physical controls of stores, sales rooms, flea markets and individuals during this campaign, 22 cases of infringement and 12 alerts were issued. A few files are being processed. As part of their inspections, my services work with customs and the federal police. I have asked the competent minister to give greater priority to this matter in order to allow for good cooperation between our administrations. My administration also collected more than 500 kilos of ivory from the Belgian population during the campaign "Out of your teeth!" organised by the zoos of Antwerp, Planckendael and Pairi Daiza. All these actions contribute very concretely to raising the awareness of our citizens. I come to collaboration with countries with elephant populations. Je soutiens The African Elephant Fund. Belgium participated in the management committee of this plan, which aims to combat this trafficking at source and to preserve elephant populations. We must fight this scourge in a converging way. Of course, basing itself on a single measure as the total ban on ivory trade is not enough. It can't be a slogan. It takes concrete action at all times, on several fronts, to bring this scourge to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u73	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much for your answers. We are grateful for the steps you have already taken and for the ambition you have shown to go further in this area. It is important that Belgium sends a strong signal, by joining our neighbouring countries, which have recently strengthened or are working on their framework for ivory trade. Our country must play an ambitious role both at European and international level. It remains bizarre that the European Union protects the elephant much less than the rhino, for which trade at European level is already successfully prohibited. However, they are both equally quickly eradicated. At the current rate, the elephant and the rhino will be wiped out in 20 years. We therefore hope that our legislative proposal can contribute to a more ambitious attitude and authority of Belgium on the international stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u74	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u75	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of Wednesday 7 November 2018, I propose that you enter on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the legislative proposal (Mr Francis Delpérée, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr David Clarinval, Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Mrs Katja Gabriels and Mrs Karin Temmerman, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mrs Inez De Coninck) amending the Act of 19 May 1994 regulating the election campaign and limiting and declaring the electoral expenditure for the elections of the Flemish Parliament, the Walloon Parliament, the Brussels Capital Parliament and the Parliament of the German-speaking Community, and setting the standard of scrutiny of official communications by the public authorities, in order to ensure the continuation of the limitation of electoral expenditure in the provinces of Hainaut and Luxembourg, even after the signature of the electoral circles in the provinces of Hainaut and Luxembourg; - the legislative proposal (Mr Philippe Goffin and Mr Gautier Calomne, Mrs Carina Van Cauter, Mr Egbert Lachaert, Mrs Sonja Becq, Mr Raf Terwingen and Mrs Sarah Smeyers) amending the law of 25 Ventôse year XI on notarial duties, in connection with the nomination committees for the notarial profession, Nos 3044/1 to 7; - after discussing the draft laws and legislative proposals, the interplay of Mrs Evita Willaert with the Minister for Finance, responsible for combating tax fraud on "the appointment of Mr Steven Vanackere as director of the National Bank of Belgium" (No. 286). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents on Wednesday, 7 November 2018, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the bill (MM. Francis Delperée, Ahmed Laaouej, David Clarinval, Servais Verherstraeten, Mrs Katja Gabriëls and Karin Temmerman, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mrs Inez De Coninck) amending the Act of 19 May 1994 regulating the electoral campaign, concerning the limitation and declaration of election expenses incurred in the elections of the Walloon Parliament, the Flemish Parliament, the Parliament of the Brussels-Capital Region and the Parliament of the German-speaking Community, and laying down the criterion for monitoring official communications from public authorities, with a view to ensuring continuity in the limitation of election expenses following the modification of electoral districts in the provinces of Hainaut and Luxembourg, Nos. 3342/1 to 4; - the bill (MM. Philippe Goffin and Gautier Calomne, Ms Carina Van Cauter, Mr Egbert Lachaert, Ms Sonja Becq, Mr Raf Terwingen and Ms Sarah Smeyers) amending the Act of 25 ventôse an XI containing organization of the notariat with regard to the commissions of appointment for the notariat, Nos. 3044/1 to 7; - following the discussion of the drafts and proposals for legislation, the inquiry by Mrs Evita Willaert to the Minister of Finance, responsible for combating tax fraud on "the appointment of Mr Steven Vanackere as Director of the National Bank of Belgium" (No. 286). Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u76	I have received amendments to the legislative proposal (Mrs Hendrik Vuye, Servais Verherstraeten, Patrick Dewael and Peter De Roover) amending Law of 25 April 2007 establishing a Parliamentary Committee responsible for the legislative evaluation of the composition and functioning of the Parliamentary Committee, Nos 1537/1 to 6. I have received amendments to the bill (MM. Hendrik Vuye, Servais Verherstraeten, Patrick Dewael and Peter De Roover) amending the Act of 25 April 2007 establishing a Parliamentary Committee responsible for legislative follow-up with regard to the composition and functioning of the Parliamentary Committee, Nos. 1537/1 to 6. In accordance with Article 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution and the Reform of the Institutions in order to discuss them. In accordance with Rule 93(1) of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that you refer these amendments to the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution and the Reform of the Institutions in order to allow them to be examined. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u77	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Gilles Vanden Burre, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u78	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this text aims to improve the procedure for requesting exemption from the social security contributions of a self-employed person by laying down precise criteria for obtaining this exemption. From now on, the criteria will be closer to the economic reality of the self-employed person applying for exemption. In addition, this text amends the functioning of the Commission for Exemptions from Contributions by establishing an appeal body with full jurisdiction to review the decision, while making the procedure for examining exemptions more accessible to independents in terms of costs and time limits. I would like to point out that this text reflects all the interest that our government has shown to the independents and their difficulties since the beginning of this Parliament. The self-employed person is a worker who has to bear the burden of managing his economic activity alone, with all the risks and hazards involved. For this reason, I invite you to support this bill and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u79	Mr President, we also fully support this draft law. We have already mentioned a number of times that the treatment period for obtaining the exemption from contributions is fairly long and that the procedure is not so simple and leads to many complaints. The Minister proposed and included a simplification of the procedure in the draft law and also indicated in the committee that it was really intended to reduce the period of treatment of the applications from 6 months to 1 month and that it would be confirmed by means of a circular if necessary. We fully agree with that. It is also a good thing that an appeal committee has been set up in which the self-employed person can appeal against the decision at first instance. This also happens without too many difficult procedures and free of charge. That is why we can fully support the draft law before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u80	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this text which we discussed in the Committee on the Economy relates to an important subject in the eyes of environmentalists. We often talk about entrepreneurship, the development of our SMEs and the activities of the self-employed, with a view to creating long-term jobs at home. This project is aimed in particular at self-employed people in difficulty, a theme that we do not address frequently. For the many men and women who undertake, it is not always easy to get started. This often corresponds even to taking a risk, to the point that they are often faced with great difficulties. It is therefore important to be able to support them. That is why we consider the use of tools designed for this purpose to be particularly essential. It should be noted that about one third of the self-employed are considered to be close to the poverty line and therefore find themselves in the most precarious situations. The text before us has two objectives that are of particular interest to us. First of all, it aims to simplify the conditions under which an independent person facing difficulties can obtain an exemption from payment of social contributions. As a result, the notion of "state of need" was redefined; and it was absolutely necessary, for it was too vague so far. In addition, an appeal to an administrative court is requested. Similarly, the transparency of decisions needs to be improved, so that the independent can understand the reason for it. Therefore, my group will support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u81	Mr. Speaker, Minister, we will also support the bill that is being proposed to us today. As a reminder, this text contains a number of essential contributions that will make life easier for self-employed workers. Thus, the competence for contribution exemptions is transferred from the SPF Economy to INASTI, the latter being a parastatal that knows the sector more well. Secondly, simplification of the procedure, which includes a shortening of the time-limits for obtaining a reply. Another aspect that we consider important is the objectivation of the criteria for granting a contribution exemption. In my view, this is a step forward in terms of good governance and provides greater legal certainty through an administration that will now be more "client-oriented", if you allow me to express it. Another positive point as regards us is the provision of an appeal procedure on the merits in the event of a refusal of a contribution exemption. This is obviously an important element. Another point which needs to be clarified and which is also important is the transition from the state of need criterion to that of the temporarily difficult economic or financial situation. This allows for more assistance to self-employed people facing difficult circumstances at some point in their careers. It is not a question of keeping workers or jobs "in life" in any case destined to disappear, but of temporarily resolving a problem in relation to a more difficult situation or a different problem. That is why we will support the project tabled today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u82	The government has only received statements of support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return very briefly to the constructive exchange we have had in committee. Indeed, I believe that all the groups present in the exchange have been able to see how much the project we are carrying with the government will simplify and improve the lives of the self-employed. We know it's made of ups and downs. As you said, Mr. Friart, we needed to be more at the meeting than a number of self-employed people who are experiencing significant difficulties. To date, however, it is possible to request a total or partial exemption from contributions, but the deadlines – many of you have pointed out – including Ms. Smaers, Mr. Vanden Burre, Mr. de Lamotte – are extremely long. With the new system, with this project, we will bring back – it is essential to be fast at this level – the response time to one month, whereas it was on average six months but sometimes eight or nine months. Indeed, we have simplified the criteria and brought decisions back to INASTI, whose real job it is, and we will be able to give answers within a month to the self-employed who request these exemptions from contributions. Another element has also been noted, and it is a matter of common sense. We are integrating into the dynamics of the new system the independent person's ability to challenge the decision. There will therefore be a right of appeal. There is a guarantee of independence at the level of the Appeals Board. It will be presided over by the magistrate. I think that with this project we are going beyond what has already been done because, as you said, Mr Vanden Burre, it remains very difficult to be independent. And in terms of social status, the improvements that we have made with this government, since the beginning of the legislature, aim to be more at the meeting compared to the social catch-up that was essential. More than half a billion new measures at an annual rate, it's just never seen! With this additional exemption measure, we will be even more in the process of supporting the self-employed, who are the most at risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u84	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u85	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3317/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3317/3) The draft law contains 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u86	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u87	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Grovonius, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u88	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3285/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3285/3) The title was amended by the Commission in draft legislation approving the Protocol amending the Convention of 9 February 1994 on the charging of charges for the use of certain roads by heavy goods vehicles pursuant to Directive 2011/76/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 September 2011 amending Directive 1999/62/EC on the charging of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures, done at Brussels on 6 December 2017.' The title has been amended by the committee in draft law approving the Protocol amending the Agreement of 9 February 1994 on the collection of a right of use for the use of certain roads by heavy-duty vehicles, in accordance with Directive 2011/76/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 September 2011 amending Directive 1999/62/EC on the taxation of heavy-duty vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures, done in Brussels on 6 December 2017". The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u89	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u90	I propose that a single general discussion be devoted to these two draft laws. I propose that you devote one general discussion to these two bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u91	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Flahaux, who refers to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u92	We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 3312. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3312/1) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 3312. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3312/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u93	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 3313. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3313/1) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 3313. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3313/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u94	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u95	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Francis Delpérée, Ahmed Laaouej, David Clarinval, Servais Verherstraeten, Katja Gabriels, Karin Temmerman, Gilles Vanden Burre, Inez De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u96	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u97	Mr President, this legislative proposal, of which Mr Delpérée is the chief proposer, was dealt with urgently in the Committee on the Interior the day before yesterday. It aims to avoid problems in the elections of May 2019, in particular with regard to electoral expenditure. Election expenses should be communicated in good time from the Home Office. This is based on the number of mandates to be issued. A decree has now been adopted in Wallonia to amend the provinces of Hainaut and Luxembourg, thus adjusting the electoral circles. In order to ensure that everything is done in a timely manner, the proposal should be adopted in a matter of urgency. Mr Delpérée explained this very expertly in committee the day before yesterday. Everyone agreed to the text and it was unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u98	Mr President, I would like to dispel any ambiguity. There is no change in electoral districts. It is a competence of the regional legislator. There are no changes to the rules on the financing of political parties, nor to the rules on election expenses. It is simply a small piece of legislation to allow all these provisions to come into force in the next regional elections in 2019. As the rapporteur has said, there is an urgent need to take a decision since the Minister of the Interior must take a decision before 26 November next.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u99	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u100	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3342/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3342/4) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u101	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u102	Without report Not related Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Philippe Goffin, Gautier Calomne, Carina Van Cauter, Egbert Lachaert, Sonja Becq, Raf Terwingen, Sarah Smeyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u103	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u104	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3044/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3044/7) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u105	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. Ladies and gentlemen, we come to Mrs Willaert's inquiry. I'm suspending the session for a few minutes, waiting for it to arrive. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u106	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u107	Colleagues, I remind you of the arrangements. Mrs Willaert has ten minutes' speaking time and so does the Minister. Then Mrs Willaert has five minutes to reply. Anyone who wishes to join us will also be given five minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the past few weeks have not been a good sight for politics. The distribution of posts, based purely on us knows us and not on objectively tested qualities, is really politics from the last century. The priorities of traditional power parties are clear. Some party presidents are particularly indignant and furious when a fellow party member does not receive a particular post. However, when it comes to rising poverty in this country, or when it comes to air pollution affecting all our children, this indignation is a lot less. Also the N-VA, the party of the change, appears to be sick in the same bed. This party would do it completely differently and would end the political appointments. In reality, this party has thrown itself into the game with enthusiasm over the past few years and is now as deeply involved as its colleagues in the other traditional power parties. The appointment puzzle or the carousel are all nice names to justify the same practice, especially people with a party card without any significant control for a lot of money parking in strategic seats. You guys find it doesn't cheer me up. This practice is causing a great deal of evil to the political stylish, our stylish. She is at odds with the values and the kind of politics that the citizen rightly expects from his or her politicians. You know I haven't been around for as long as some Members have. However, I thought that after the political appointment of Cédric Frère, grandson of the wealthy top industrialist Albert Frère, we had already seen everything in the Regent Council of the National Bank of Belgium earlier this year. But no, the game just goes on, as long as MR, CD&V, the N-VA and Open Vld each get their strategists with accompanying influence in the government and remuneration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u109	Colleagues, the level of noise is unbearable. May I ask you at least to pay the respect to listen to the interpreter?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u110	Yeah, listening to a young woman in politics...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u111	It doesn't matter, Mrs Willaert, but you need to be listened to. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u112	Like I said, the game just goes on. I was just wondering, Minister, if that's why you went into politics, but I don't think that's the case. After all, it is a truly shameful spectacle, which I cannot be explained to or to your constituents. Colleagues, we really need to get rid of the political appointments. Unfortunately, so far, we have not found a majority in the Chamber to introduce an objective and transparent procedure whereby the most suitable candidate is automatically elected. After all, it can be that easy. If one chooses the unknowing non-politics and political appointments, then one can at least ensure that men are elected as many as women. The justified criticism of the replacement of Mrs De Wachter by a man came from all corners, including the N-VA, the MR and Open Vld, but just those parties have failed to appoint women in recent years. That is a very serious hypocrisy. I quote: 'Do you know that here 70 top executives work from whom only two women work and that they earn 12 percent less than men when they do exactly the same work? Everywhere there is a concentration of power and money, women are still pushed aside." Those are not my words, but those of Marcia De Wachter a few weeks ago in De Tijd, before the appointment. The only woman on the board is replaced by a man. The NBB becomes the NMBB, the National Men's Bank of Belgium. According to a study by the 2016 Institute for Equality between Women and Men, women's representation on boards has doubled to 16.6 % in six years' time. Quotas work, huh? But 16.6 % is still far from the mandatory 33.3 %. Only 21% of the companies surveyed effectively achieve that minimum standard of 1 in 3 women. We see an even grimmer picture in the management committees. So there's still a lot of work to be done. The government has 4 women and 14 men. Of course, Mr Vandeput will be succeeded by a man. Belgium falls from tenth place at the beginning of this legislature to thirty-first on the Global Gender Gap Index. That's 21 places back! I would therefore like to address the women in the semi-round in particular. Don't let it happen! I ask you to vote symbolically against the appointment, not because I have something against Steven Vanackere, or because he would be a bad candidate. I simply cannot know, because there has been no objective procedure. I ask you, because today you can give a signal to all women in our country that we are living in 2018. I think it is a problem that important institutions in our country are almost exclusively run by men. As a woman, I will no longer accept it, and I think you will no longer have to accept it. After four years of policy by the Michel Government, the number of fellow citizens in our country who have to rely on living wages is historically high. Never before have so many people come to the Food Bank as now. There has been no attempt to reverse this evolution in recent years. However, politicians who are sidetracked and who have a certain party colour may earn more than our Prime Minister. They may earn more than Mario Draghi, the President of the European Central Bank, without an examination, without any evidence of competence, without any justification. You can't explain that! Why should directors of the National Bank earn more than 337 000 euros? Why should this be the highest amount throughout the euro area? Why do they have to earn more than the Prime Minister? Putting this appointment in a larger pot of political appointments is not a solution. With such a reaction, you completely ignore the reasons why people are so indignant about it. They do not want many political appointments at the same time. They don't want any more political appointments. People do not want a new set of men in lucrative posts, but clear rules for the balance between men and women in executive positions. The remuneration of these top positions must be reasonable, fair and not out of proportion. Minister, will the government continue to appoint Vanackere? Are you in favour of or against quotas to achieve a minimum gender balance? Are you in favour of objective procedures whereby the best candidate is automatically selected instead of a political appointment? Do you agree with me that this remuneration is no longer of this time?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u113	Mrs Willaert, ladies and gentlemen, as regards Mr Vanackere and the relevant procedure, the National Bank's Regent Council has nominated Mr Vanackere as its new director. As you undoubtedly know, that nomination should be confirmed by KB. As the Prime Minister has already said very clearly, there is a further discussion within the government on this subject. So it is, and so it shall be. In the end, Mrs Willaert, most of your comments are about structures and mandates, with everything that is attached to them within the National Bank. Following on from what happened in 2015, but did not go through with it, I tabled a proposal. This proposal is based on three elements: a reduction in the number of functions and mandates within the National Bank, a better gender balance and a professionalisation of its operation. I do not want to say at all that the current National Bank does not work professionally, but there are certainly elements that can be improved. I would like to go into a few specific points in order to achieve these three objectives. Firstly, there is the proposal to abolish the College of Censors. Their powers would then go to the Regent Council. Other committees, such as the remuneration committee, the appointment committee and the budgetary committee, would also be assigned to the Regent Council. In this way, we would go from 26 to 14 mandates over time, including the Management Committee. That will be over time, because we live in a rule of law and I want and cannot, of course, break into current mandates. The central element in what I propose to the government is an upgrade of the Regent Council, to give it more power and to allow it to perform a controlling function. Today, after all, the reality is that the Regent Council is largely the platform for what is called reflection, social reflection on monetary policy. Well, it may sound strange to you, but it is a fact that the European Central Bank has a problem with that. Everyone here is aware that we are in a European context in which monetary data has been transferred to Europe. To put it mildly, we may be standing here on our heads, but if the ECB does not agree with what we are doing with the National Bank, then it will not go on. I hope everyone realizes that this is the reality within monetary union in 2018. Picking up on the Regent Council and its controlling function, the Regent Council will also be closer to what a board of directors does in a classic company, and the terms and conditions of the male-female relationship described in the law will automatically apply. I am clearly not in favour of compulsory quotas. For me, the principle of the right person prevails in the right place, regardless of gender. I would like to add that it is also clear to me that, in terms of gender, it is not good for the National Bank. So let us be pragmatic about this in order to find a solution and avoid crashing into principles. If we can achieve a better relationship in the Regent Council, this will of course also have an impact on the Management Committee, as its members are also part of the Regent Council. In addition, I think it would be desirable for the Management Committee and the Regent Council to have their own chairman now, that the same person should be appointed and that a gender balance should be sought with regard to the chairman mandates. Therefore, quotas for the Management Committee do not seem obvious to me for several reasons, but above all, as I said earlier, because of the European rules on the autonomy of central banks and because any director who will be appointed will always have to meet the competence requirements of the European Central Bank. In the meantime, all those who have undergone the so-called fit-and-clean tests know that this is absolutely not a joke but a bitter one and that it guarantees a two-day stay in Frankfurt, where the expression "to be put on the roster" really applies. Let it be clear that the ECB will not just accept that appointments are made on the basis of gender. This brings me seamlessly to another important part of my proposal: the skills requirements. We must not underestimate, ladies and gentlemen, that the running of an institution such as the National Bank, with all its responsibilities in terms of financial and economic stability, cannot be underestimated. It is they who are going to have to deal with a possible future financial crisis, and I really hope with you that it will not happen. This is all too often lost in the debate. This is a great assignment, and those people must be armed to do it. They must have the ability to be armed against them if there is a calamity such as that of 2008. Currently, the organic law does not contain a fit-and-clean requirement for the governor, the directors or the regent. The law only provides that a governor and a director may be removed from office by the King if they no longer fulfil the conditions required for the performance of their duties or if they have been guilty of serious misconduct. I therefore propose that the members of the Management Committee should in future comply with these fit-and-clean rules, as outlined by the ECB. Finally, the fees. This debate, too, can and must be conducted on the basis of objective data in the comparison of apples with apples. I often hear you say that you earn less at the Bundesbank in Germany or at the Dutch Bank. Then we need to know what we're talking about. The Bundesbank is not responsible for the supervision of the banks. That is another institution in Germany. Especially since 2008, the follow-up to what is happening to banks, the risks that exist there and so on, is a tremendous and very labour-intensive task, which is being carried out by the National Bank in Belgium, but not by the Bundesbank in Germany. The Nederlandsche Bank also does banking supervision, but in turn does nothing in the area of credit and balance sheet control or in the area of the collection of statistics. These are also two parts that are very labour-intensive. So yes, I propose a benchmarking of wages on the basis of objective data so that we can compare apples with apples. I've transferred this proposal to the government partners. Its discussion has already begun. I hope that we can bring this to a successful conclusion in the interests of the National Bank, but above all in the interests of all citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u114	Minister, it is a good thing that you want to reform the structure of the National Bank, it is a good thing that you are advocating fewer mandates, and it is a good thing that you want to have wages audited through benchmarking. What I do not understand is what you say about quotas. You want to be pragmatic about this. I think I have just made it clear in my speech that quotas are rather pragmatic, because they work. You yourself prove that in your proposal, in the sense that if the governor is a man, the chairman of the Regent Council must be a woman, and vice versa. You say that you do not believe in quotas and you want to take a pragmatic approach to this, but yet you are making such a proposal. I don't quite understand that. I think you're limping on two legs here. However, I understand that the N-VA is still not in favour of quotas. CD&V will have a lot of work to do to convince its colleagues to approve Mrs Smaers' very solid bill. In the end, we will not buy anything with everything you have said for the time being, because it remains with intentions. Why wait till 2023? When it comes to women, for example, you can now take action. We do not see why we have to wait any longer. In fact, you have left behind four years to change the political appointments. I find that impressive. Four years of strength of change. The question remains whether the government will appoint Steven Vanackere politically. Do we really need a man to be appointed first so that everyone is satisfied, especially served, without any debate about expertise? How do we explain this to the people in 2018? Now you have to explain that to the people, not within five years. Otherwise, I fear that you have not understood the urgency and the social indignation about this. I am tabling a motion which will be voted on next week in this semi-round. Since it is still unclear whether Steven Vanackere will be appointed director at the National Bank of Belgium, I believe that next week's vote might be very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u115	One speaker per group will be given the opportunity to join the replies. I propose that we respect the usual order, starting with the largest group. Each speaker shall have five minutes' speaking time. I give the floor to Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u116	Mr President, Mrs Willaert says that the system of us-know-it-alls of the last century is perhaps from the previous centuries, and that it is important to question that principle as a starting point. By the way, we want to go to quality, to the right person in the right place, regardless of the gender of that person, as that is an irrelevant criterion when it comes to quality, both in one direction and in the other. What I regret about the interprelante is that it gives the impression of being the spokesperson of political virginity, when she is actually playing political games. She says that events have done a great deal of harm to the political system, but I fear that her argument will reinforce that evil, because it stirs up controversy, which is very different from the business approach the Minister has chosen. That difference is striking and we prefer the Minister's discretion. Mrs Willaert asked the Minister why he had gone into politics, but that is not for the empty words she has said here. I regret the tone of her speech, but for the relevance, as the Minister has shown. Our party has entered the government to make substantial and structural changes to the legacy we have found, and I am very proud that the proposals put forward by the Minister on this matter again fit in with that framework. That is far more important than the political game that Green wants to play here. While the green dogs bark, our caravan will continue with structural reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u117	Mr President, Minister, a few weeks ago, I was questioning the feminism that your Prime Minister and some members of your government have stated. We blamed you for using feminism as a communication weapon. Mr.Alexander De Croo lamented that in 2018 there were no women in Kern, whereas before 2014, there were women. You yourself blamed the CD&V for proposing a man to the National Bank of Belgium (NBB) while your party replaced Mr Vandeput with a man. Of the five N-VA positions in the government, there is only one woman as Secretary of State. As usual, for your government, there is communication and slogans on the one hand, and on the other hand, there is action. I was then denouncing this false communication of your government, which, since taking office, has taken many negative measures, precisely against women. Today, you had the opportunity to show that you were finally paying some attention to equality between men and women. The appointment of a woman to the position of head of the NBB would have been a positive signal. But of course, you didn't. In your policy note, however, for the first time there are a few sentences about the importance of women in the world of finance. You are right, Mr Minister of Finance: women must have equal access to leadership in the world of finance. So why didn't you start right away by appointing a competent woman – there are many – to a key position at the National Bank of Belgium? Minister, you could make a difference today. As we know, there is no shortage of competent women. But as you can see, the mentalities, unfortunately, are struggling to change. We've understood that for many years. That is why my group has been battling to have a law passed within this assembly itself obliging public companies, publicly listed companies and the National Lottery to have a third of women on their board of directors. This law was necessary because of the existing glass ceiling that prevented women from taking up high office in these companies. Its adoption has also been a step forward for women in the world of work. The numbers attest to that. Women accounted for less than 8 per cent of decision-making positions in 2011. Since then, thanks in particular to the imposition of quotas, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, during the first evaluation of the law, in 2016, pointed out that the representation of women on boards of directors had doubled to 16.6% in 2016. Today, I would like to be able to expand this debate in favour of a political debate on the position of women in these senior positions in all public institutions. It is indeed urgent and necessary to carry out a true radioscopy of the position of women in the executive functions of public entities in the broad sense. We have to ask ourselves the right questions: where is the glass ceiling still unbreakable and why? Beyond the BNB, let us take the example of the judiciary. A majority of judges are women, but they become a minority once again when one looks at their proportion in the high judiciary. Similar examples are numerous. As chairman of the Social Emancipation Committee, I will propose to my colleagues that they organize this radioscopy on the basis of a hearing day which gives a true picture of the presence of women in the leading positions of public entities, taken in the broadest sense. Secondly, it will be necessary to see how the imbalance can be structurally corrected and, finally, to break the glass ceiling everywhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u118	We have heard Mr Van Overtveldt's proposals, and they certainly go in the right direction. I would like to speak on three more points. Firstly, and above all, I believe that the debate requested on the remuneration of the directors of the National Bank is certainly a good proposal from Minister Van Overtveldt. Minister Nones, when he himself was Minister of Finance, reduced the remuneration of the directors of the National Bank by 14%. So that's what we've been working on. That is a first step forward. It would certainly be good if there were any further steps to follow. We therefore support the debate requested, and we support measures to bring it to a reasonable, benchmarked level. Secondly, for 19 years CD&V has delivered the woman to the Executive Committee of the National Bank. Her name's fallen here a few times. No other party has so far provided a woman on the National Bank's Management Committee. In short, we do not need to receive lessons from anyone in this area. In 2011, CD&V played the leading role in the law on quotas in listed private companies. We have also taken the lead in the quotas for women's representation in parliaments and in a balanced representation in politics. In the meantime, we can see that this is paying off. I believe that the debate on either quotas or competence is completely out of line. The facts show that there has been a quadruple increase in the number of women on the boards of listed companies over the last three years. This figure alone, which shows that it is possible in listed companies to go to quadrupling the number of female delegates in a few years' time, shows that it can be done and that there is no need to lose competence in this respect, quite the contrary. I have not yet heard anyone suggest that the competence of the boards of directors in listed companies has been reduced in recent years. Finally, CD&V will continue to play a leading role in the debate. We have already demonstrated this and explained it. We have already tabled a legislative proposal in this area, to which reference has already been made. It allows for legal intervention in the organic laws not only of the National Bank of Belgium but also of the FSMA and of the Court of Auditors to allow the balanced representation of a minimum of one third of women on the boards of directors. I therefore shudder to the contrary and would ask for the debate on balanced representation to be opened and not just focused on the National Bank. It's easy to focus on the National Bank alone now. I repeat that such a focus is good and a first step. The FSMA, the Court of Auditors and other bodies have not yet reached that point either. So today is the time to respond to these organs as well. To this end, a legislative initiative is possible, useful and necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u119	Mr President, Minister of Finance, we are particularly pleased that you are making a proposal to finally reform the National Bank. We are already in four successive legislatures asking for the National Bank of Belgium to be brought to the level where it should be. On the one hand, there is a reduced set of tasks through the European Central Bank, which has taken over monetary policy. On the other hand, tasks have been added to the negotiated banking crisis, where we have stated that the National Bank should follow more closely certain elements, certain banks and certain banking structures. So the whole thing is a story on the one hand, which means that the National Bank is in the middle of a slimming period. It is necessary for Parliament to assume its responsibilities in this area in order to reduce the size of the National Bank. We support the Finance Minister at 100% in his reforms, provided that he takes account of the specific structure. No colleague has said anything about this today, but it is a listed company. In addition, the private shareholder must have its rightful say on the reform of the National Bank. So we will not allow the National Bank to be reformed without the respect and participation of the private shareholders in the National Bank. They have the shares. They have the right to be heard. They have the right to participate in the decision on the reform of the National Bank. As far as the company's governance structure is concerned, we believe that the legitimate gender quotas should be present. That is not the case with this appointment, which we regret. So it gets zero on the stretchwest. Let us be honest, women belong as well on the board of directors of the National Bank as men.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u120	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u121	Men and women belong there, Mr Van Rompuy. Ladies and gentlemen, in this respect we can taste less the interplay of our colleagues in Ecolo-Green. I cannot be present next week at the appointment of a new counsellor in the French Chamber of the Court of Auditors, but apparently there is no problem whatsoever that no woman will be present in the French Chamber of the Court of Auditors. Green and Ecolo advocate a male counsel for the Court of Auditors. Zero on six for the women. So it's easy to talk about one file today and not about another. Ladies and gentlemen, this should not prevent us from making it clear that it is no longer at this time that there is no woman on the board of directors or the board of directors of the National Bank. We, together with the Minister, call for a clear regulation on this matter, all the more so because it is a listed company which must comply with the laws applicable to such companies. Those laws put forward a clear number for women and men. There is clarity about this and so there can be no discussion about it. That law has been passed here in Parliament and must be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u122	Mr President, the Minister of Finance's policy paper states that equal opportunities must be offered to men and women in the financial sector. That is a fine intention, but we can see that people are obviously very afraid of change. The Minister is now proposing structural changes which, I'm sure, will come into effect from 2023. In other words, one is drowning the fish or rather drowning the woman. The majority parties form a Swedish coalition, but apparently they have not eaten cheese from the Scandinavian gender culture. For the record, in 2011, we adopted legislation here in Parliament which would require the board of directors of listed private companies and public companies to be at least one third of women. I hear now, seven years later, the N-VA and the liberal parties, because for the sake of clarity, the Christian Democrats, Socialists and the Greens have adopted this law, which is also calling for more women. They argue for it but do not want to do so in reality. Mr Finance Minister, with all due respect, I have listened to you very carefully. You know that that rule of a third woman on the various boards of directors had a reason. That was not because they are women, that was because there are often different competences among men and women and because a board of directors works much better when there is a diversity of competences. That is one of the reasons why this has been proposed. I refer, for example, to the ability to avoid risk. You screen with the fit-and-clean rules of the European Central Bank and Europe. Well, the banking crisis has shown that this diversity of competences in banks' boards has not been taken into account. That has been an important element in the banking crisis. I do not believe your argument with regard to Europe. I do not believe your argument with regard to the ECB. On the contrary, they argue for more competences in the board. You said this and I found it arrogant and embarrassing. You spoke of the right person in the right place. There are women with the right skills, you know. And they used to have to consider...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u123	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u124	Apparently, you won't find them. The task of the National Bank was to record trends in society. Marcia De Wachter was very much involved in this and worked, among other things, on the labour market and youth unemployment. It is not because the NBB will be more controlling, that no women can be used there, quite the contrary! In two thirds of the families, the woman holds the wallet and she watches over it. It must not therefore be said that there are no competent women, Mrs van Peel, but one must look for them alone. It is shameful what arguments you use for the chosen approach. The oldboys network can be found not only in football, but also in politics. Please be critical of your own functioning, then perhaps we will get a better financial device. Maybe you can argue in the nuclear cabinet full of men whether this can't be done earlier than 2023!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u125	Mr President, we have listened with great interest to Minister Van Overtveld's proposal on the reform of the National Bank. This reform is in the right direction and we will support it. In fact, I would remind you that in our 2016 resolution, we already wanted to guarantee equal pay for men and women. We have been paying attention to this issue for a long time. We must take into account the specific nature of the National Bank, which does not have a board of directors, but we must make progress in this regard. Finally, I would like to address the Socialist Group that I heard this Monday, particularly by Mrs Onkelinx, on the radio. She accused the government of not appointing a woman to the National Bank. As a reminder, in 2014, the Socialist Group had the opportunity and should have already applied the law in question, but it appointed a man. It's a late conversion, but it's still a conversion. We look forward to it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u126	With the socialists, there were still women in Kern. Together with the socialists, the Brussels government is equal. With the Socialists, we have the only woman mayor of Brussels, and I can continue the list. If you're trying to give lessons, at least learn what we're doing for gender equality. You are, in this matter, arrears!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u127	We are not going to open the debate. Mrs Fonck has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, let us first try to be positive. The whole saga around the appointment of a director to the National Bank leads to a willingness to reform the governance of this institution. Anyway, it's the tone of the day. Fewer mandates, more reasonable pay, more women. The whole question is whether this will to reform the National Bank is real and whether the broad lines set out today are not the result of the government's panic over this bad saga. The future will tell us. If your government does not come to a concrete conclusion, we will introduce a bill for us to move forward. Let me turn to the question of the presence of women in the National Bank. The situation is, to say the least, challenging at all levels: regency council, executive committee, deputy directors; two women out of dozens of positions is not acceptable. Understand me well! In my view, competence must always be the priority factor. The right man, the right woman,at the right place, but when only men or almost men are in place in a structure like the National Bank, that raises questions. It's kind of like no woman had the skills to be designated there. Yet I know many women who are competent. If you want, I can introduce them to you. I would like to make a very concrete suggestion to you. Minister, I heard you were talking about 2023. Let us begin without delay with the feminization of the council of regency by nominating only women! Let me also smile when I hear some in front of the attitude of those whose speech is of variable geometry! They blame the appointment of a man, an appointment that would now violate the law of 28 July 2011, while they themselves appointed, after the adoption of this law, new directors rather than new administrators at the National Bank. Legislation will have to be adapted to move towards the feminization of the bodies of large enterprises. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude on two points. The first is to tell you that I find that this saga has given a deplorable picture of politics. That's unfortunate. On the other hand, I would also like to conclude by saying yes to a reform of the National Bank, particularly of governance, provided that it is rapid where it is indisputable and that it is reflected where there is a need for discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u129	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I were not a politician of the Flemish Interest, I would have been, certainly in recent weeks, very ashamed to be a politician at all. Now I only had substitute shame for all those other parties who, rather than dealing with the problems of the citizens, are doing far too much to themselves. They have been fighting to show their little sides in the struggle for self-enrichment and political mailing. Despite the strength of change, despite the so-called preference for professionalism, we have to note that these political appointments are still the usual practice today. If in the last few weeks it was intended to completely eradicate the remaining credibility in politics and demonstrate that it is all about posts, then you have all succeeded brilliantly. It was curly about top jobs, both about the governor of East Flanders and the new director at the National Bank. Top jobs of which one can seriously wonder what they actually serve and why they have been so generously compensated. It has been mentioned here that this political culture of appointment has existed for a long time. The difference with old times is that the twitching stayed under the waterline. Since the previous legislature, there has not even been the shame and the reluctance to keep that back room politics in the back rooms. Now it's being fought out. Unlike many of my colleagues I have just heard, as a woman, I am really not awake from the gender of that new director of the National Bank. Everyone deserves a fair chance. If sex and origin should not matter, why in the name of God should quotas be introduced to promote people on this basis? I am not in favour of such quotas, nor of the Minister of Finance's proposal in that direction. Positive discrimination is also discrimination. Quotas amount to purely politically correct discrimination. What bothers me is the way in which the new director of the National Bank is appointed and also the expensive and outdated management structure, which he joins. La Belgique à daddy has never left. Instead of talking about the gender of the new director, it would be better to ask why the central bank of a country with 11 million inhabitants needs six directors and a governor, each with a monthly wage of EUR 30 000. Germany and the Netherlands, despite their higher population numbers, do not only with fewer directors, but above all without political appointments. The Belgian National Bank, like many European institutions, seems to be a shelter for discarded politicians. Choice too much, unfortunately. A radical reform of the National Bank is now being announced. Drastic is very strong, perhaps according to Belgian standards, but the essence is that the politicisation remains. I ask you, not for the first time in the previous legislature, the N-VA asked that in this house together with me to finally stop the wheel of political appointments, and not just in the National Bank. Objectively put the right person in the right place. Only capacity and competence should be taken into account. Indeed, Mrs De Coninck, a lot of women have that competence, but they really do not need patronising quotas. I note that 20 years after the major Copernicus reform, there is a better governance policy and a modern staff policy, but a stakeholder who continues to blur the rules. That is of course the one who has decided the rules himself, namely: the Belgian State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u130	Minister, I find your answer frightening. Not only do you say that the reforms are for 2023, but you also say that there will be no quotas. However, many studies have shown that, unfortunately, if there is to be a balance between genders, quotas must be used. You justify yourself by saying that we must see what the European Central Bank authorizes. Not only does it impose its dictatorship in monetary matters, but also in gender policy! And you also say that the person must be competent. Clearly, in your opinion, women are too stupid to hold positions at the National Bank! You refer to the 2008 crisis, saying that there was a need for strong and competent people to manage the situation. But the management of the financial crisis by the National Bank was catastrophic in 2008! They saw there were problems at Fortis and they didn't do anything. They let Fortis sink while they were aware that it was going straight into the wall. I find your answer staggering on this point, but also on the question of remuneration. You do not say anything about it, while the governor earns 490,000 euros a year, or 40,000 euros a month. It is more than the Prime Minister, more than the other central bank leaders in Europe. When it comes to imposing an index leap, it is quickly decided by the government, as for VAT on electricity or pension at 67, but when you have to get big pay, all of a sudden it becomes very complicated. Why wait for 2023 to appoint a female representative instead of the only woman on the management committee who is leaving? This could happen right away, especially since we are replacing this woman with someone who is clearly involved in the Libyan fund case. Yesterday, in the Finance Committee, we received a letter in which a senior finance official wrote, on behalf of the minister, that Euroclear can release funds to pay them to people who apparently used them to buy arms for Libyan militias. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we were unable to be informed of the matter since the majority refused to hear this official. The opacity is therefore organized. In any event, it is this person who may have been wrong and who cannot be heard to be appointed instead of the only woman on the steering committee who leaves. This is a rather frightening way of doing things. In my view, a transparent and reasoned procedure should be put in place to see who is being set up at the National Bank. I would remind you that the previous appointment had also caused quite a stir. Moreover, the outgoing director, Marcia De Wachter, said, in a tweet, that there would soon be more representatives of the Brother family than of women in the history of the National Bank. Indeed, one can see that a Brother dynasty settles at the National Bank. First there was Albert, then the son Gérald, and then the grandson Cédric. This is challenging when you know the career of this billionaire family. The book of French journalist Denis Robert, the man of the Clearstream affair, has just been released. It shows that in Belgium, France and Brazil, the Brother family has become rich by stealing the state with false writing and political complicity – the evidence is there. It is therefore a question of looking, in addition to gender equality, at the people who are posted to the National Bank, who are more like a government propaganda agency than anything else. Finally, one has to wonder about the function of this somewhat bizarre bird, which is public and private and which is listed on the stock exchange. It is one of the only central banks in the world listed on the stock exchange. She has different functions. I believe that an in-depth reform of the National Bank is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u131	Mr President, there have been many alarm signals in this Chamber about political appointments. The first time that was discussed was in 1850. But it was especially after the Second World War that the political parties began to colonize and land the entire society. We even had a committee for that, the Deaken Commission. That committee gave the heads-up on political posts. Alerts should have gone off here in 1998, when Mr Batselé was to be appointed as counsel at the Court of Cassation. Attorney Liekendael was about to claim from the Court that he was not allowed to take the oath. Even then, the alarm bells weren't actually heard. Everyone here has butter on their heads. We need to get rid of that. I hear Mrs Onkelinx and Mrs Winckel from the PS, I hear Mrs Fonck from cdH. Sorry, but let's take a look at the composition of the Constitutional Court. On the Flemish side there are six judges, three men and three women. On the French-speaking side there are six men and zero women. When the great passionara of quotas, Mrs Milquet, had to appoint someone to the Constitutional Court, she appointed her study friend. At that time she did not think about quotas. At that point, apparently, they weren't on the clock anymore. When we look at the French-speaking referees, we see that there are six women out of eight referenda. In other words, with the French-speaking generals of the Constitutional Court there are zero women, but with the French-speaking soldiers almost everyone is a woman. That is the reality. We better get rid of the plague of political appointments. If we get rid of it, we shall have the right woman or the right man in the right place. That is where we need to go, particularly with regard to the objectification of procedures. I have heard the Prime Minister here today reply to a question from my colleague, Mr Veerle Wouters, that he was prepared to take steps, which is a positive point. However, before Prime Minister Michel, many other prime ministers here in the Half-Round have already declared the same. He's definitely not the first. Also note that in the case of parties who would change the appointment policy and win elections with the magic word 'change', when the cat is put to milk, the cat begins to drink with knowledge. They even have the mandate champions in their ranks. I hear about structural reforms at the National Bank of Belgium and I hear that they are proud of them. Colleagues of the N-VA, the appointment of the head of your study service and of your own treasurer at the National Bank of Belgium has never even done the PS. Even the PS never did that! As far as the National Bank of Belgium is concerned, Mrs Wouters and I have already made a number of proposals which go entirely in the direction of the current proposals of the Minister of Finance, such as, for example, the abolition of the College of censors, which is indeed an unnecessary body. The Regent Council is also largely a relic of the past, at least in its present composition. The fact that the Management Committee is a Mexican army is immediately apparent. One doesn't need to be a specialist in Defense to notice that. We have already tabled an amendment in November 2017 to bring together the Management Committee from persons of different genders. That amendment was voted down by the majority. As far as the reform of the National Bank is concerned, I recommend that everyone read the book of Véronique Goossens. It is an excellent book with a beautiful storyline, but with a surrealistic content. Why should we also reform the National Bank? I quote the last page of Mrs Goossens' book: 'Because the Belgian impotence to change Belgian structures is also maintained and institutionalized by the sclerosis of the National Bank'. That may also be a reason to work on the reform of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u132	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Evita Willaert and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Evita Willaert and the answer of the Minister for Finance, responsible for combating tax fraud, calls on the government not to appoint Mr Steven Vanackere as director of the National Bank of Belgium." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Evita Willaert and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard Ms. Evita Willaert's inquiry and the response of the Minister of Finance, responsible for combating tax fraud, asks the Government not to appoint Steven Vanackere as Director of the National Bank of Belgium." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter De Roover and Mr Richard Miller, Mrs Sonja Becq and Mr Luk Van Biesen. A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Peter De Roover et Richard Miller, Mme Sonja Becq et M. Luk Van Biesen. The motions will be put to the vote next week. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place next week. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u133	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 20 September 2018, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 26 September 2018 for the mandates of member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Office. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 20 September 2018, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 26 September 2018 for the terms of office of a member of the Central Prison Supervisory Board. The Central Supervisory Board consists of twelve effective (6 N + 6 F) and twelve alternate (6 N + 6 F) members. The Central Supervisory Board consists of 12 effective members (6 F + 6 N) and 12 alternate members (6 F + 6 N). The Central Supervisory Board shall have among its effective and alternate members at least: - two Dutch speakers and two French speakers who hold a Master's degree in Law, including at least one Dutch-speaking and one French-speaking magistrate of the seat; - one Dutch-speaking doctor and one French-speaking doctor. The Central Supervisory Board shall include among its actual members and its alternate members at least: - two French-speaking and two Dutch-speaking nationals who hold a Master's degree in law, including at least one French-speaking and one Dutch-speaking magistrate; - a French-speaking doctor and a Dutch-speaking doctor. The Chamber of Representatives should appoint an office among the effective members, consisting of two Dutch-speaking and two French-speaking members, of which at least one member holds a diploma in law per language role. The House of Representatives must appoint from among the actual members an office, composed of two French-speaking members and two Dutch-speaking members, of which at least one member per linguistic role holds a law degree. No application was submitted for the ′′ French-speaking magistrate of the seat′′ category. No applications were submitted for the French-language magistrat category at headquarters′′. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 November 2018, I propose that you publish a second appeal to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of French-speaking magistrate of the seat. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 November 2018, I propose that you publish a second call for candidates to the Belgian Moniteur for the term of office of French-speaking magistrate of the seat. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u134	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the following draft laws: The government requested urgency pursuant to rule 51 of the Rules when introducing the following bills: Draft Law laying down various employment provisions, No. 3347/1. Draft law on various labour provisions, No. 3347/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u135	Mr President, since the date of entry into force of several articles of this Act was set on 1 January 2018 and of others on 1 January 2019, we call for the urgent procedure to maintain the clarity of law as far as possible and not to request unnecessary additional retroactivity regarding its entry into force. For the chapter on forward-looking work organisation projects, it is essential for employers to quickly get a clear overview of the conditions attached to the financial compensation to which they may be entitled when submitting project proposals. In order to ensure continuity in the operation of the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service, it is also important to have a legal basis for identifying a leading official. Too long a gap in this legal base is detrimental to the functioning of the service.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u136	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u137	Draft law establishing a free supplementary pension for employed persons and laying down various provisions on supplementary pensions, No. 3356/1. Draft law introducing a supplementary free pension for employed persons and introducing various provisions on supplementary pensions, No. 3356/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u138	Mr President, the draft law aims to allow all workers who do not yet receive a supplementary pension or who benefit from a supplementary pension of a limited level to build up such a second pillar pension in the context of the free supplementary pension. The urgency is justified by the importance of allowing a maximum number of employees to benefit from the VAPW system from 2019. The later the draft law enters into force in the course of 2019, the higher the risk that interested workers will postpone their access to the VAPW system until 2020. The urgency is all the more justified by the fact that the majority of the provisions of the bill enter into force three months after the publication of the law. The three-month period should be maintained to allow pension institutions sufficient time to develop the appropriate products under the VAPW.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u139	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u140	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u141	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u142	Mr President, I just want to point out a pairing with my colleague, Mr Damien Thiéry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u143	Of which act. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3317/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3317/4) MM. Eric Thiébaut, Emir Kir and Jacques Chabot voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u144	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3285/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3285/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u145	Mr Pirlot, you announced your pairing, but I heard an abstention. If a consensus exists, there is no reason to worry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u146	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 76 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 61 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3312/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3312/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u147	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[74]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 62 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3313/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3313/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Mr. Richard Miller voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u148	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be sent to the Senate as a draft. (3342/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be forwarded as a bill to the Senate. (3342/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u149	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3044/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3044/8) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-08-54-plenair-ip253x.u150	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Wednesday 14 November 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Wednesday, 14 November 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 14 November 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, 14 November 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
