ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u1	Mr President, Minister, a few months ago we discussed the amendment of the arms law and the setting up of a new reporting period for citizens in order to have their weapons regularized. I would have liked to have had an update on the reporting period. How many weapons were reported? How many weapons were handed in? However, I fear that I have already read the answer in the press, although I hope to hear something else from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u2	Mr President, Mr Degroote, the reporting period for licensed firearms, loaders and ammunition has already produced a very good result. Between 1 March and 31 July, 8 750 declarations were made for weapons, chargers and ammunition. One declaration stands for one weapon or a certain amount of chargers or ammunition. The number of returns increases month after month. For the month of July 2018, the data from two provinces are not yet included. The actual figure is therefore slightly higher. Most citizens ask for a permit or registration of their weapons, which are 40% of the declarations, or permanently renounce their weapons, chargers or ammunition, so that they are permanently removed from the circuit, i.e. some 37 % or 3 206 weapons and quantities of chargers and ammunition. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the provincial and police services for their efforts to make the reporting period a success. As you know, citizens who still want to make a report have until 31 December of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u3	Mr Minister, I have two comments to make. Firstly, most of your answer is indeed in yesterday's and today's press releases, while my question dates back to 22 August. This is not a sign of respect for Parliament. I really can't live with that. Secondly, you speak of success. At the time, in 2015, the Federal Armament Service declared that there were still 300 000 illegal weapons available. Thus, up to today, 3 % has already been indicated. In my view, this can hardly be called a success. I'll have a closer look at this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u4	Mr Minister, my question dates back to the end of August when we were all shocked by the sad news that Dutchmen in Spa caused the death of a Belgian agent. Following the riots in Brussels in November last year, the letter on violence against the police was strengthened. The proposal for the new penal code will also make it possible to impose heavier prison sentences. The current Criminal Code already provides for a stricter punishment for violence committed against police officers. In the new penal code, violence against persons with a social function will once again lead to an increase in the maximum sentence. Among the many reactions and expressions of sympathy at the end of August there was also the demand of the trade unions NSVP and VSOA to impose the maximum penalty on all perpetrators of police violence. In your first reaction, you thought that was an exaggeration. In your opinion, it should remain possible for a judge not to impose the maximum sentence. Minister, can you give us the figures on the criminal prosecutions for violence against the police, indicating the level of penalties for such crimes? With this I want to check whether there is an increasing trend in the number of prosecutions and how the criminal approach to violence against our police officers evolved? Can you demonstrate that the November letter did not miss its effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u5	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, unfortunately I cannot obtain the figures requested in the short period of an oral question. In addition, the College of Attorneys General informs me that until 2016 the nomenclature of the public prosecutor's statistics did not allow to distinguish the category of police officers from the other victims referred to in Articles 280 and 410a of the Criminal Code. However, this is possible since the application of the circular 10/2017. A numerical image will only be required at the beginning of 2019. The redirection letter is particularly important because the clear guidelines for the investigation and prosecution policy of the prosecutors and the appointment of a reference magistrate with special police experience lead to a uniform, effective and decisive approach to the problem. The circular aims at a systematic reaction to such forms of violence in order to exclude any form of impunity from the offender. The prosecution thus responds to the government's desire to act more strictly in relation to violence against police officers. An evaluation is still premature, given the recent nature of the letter. In the draft new penal code, the concept of social function is defined and used as an aggravating circumstance or as an aggravating component, which results in the criminal offence being classified into a higher level of punishment or more severely punished. However, the penalty measurement must always be tailor-made. A mandatory automatic imposition of the strictest penalty would undermine the judicial appreciation of the offences. We must continue to respect judicial freedom in our rule of law. In a rule of law, the judge must take into account the specific circumstances of the case, the nature of the offender and the extent to which the recovery was sought in relation to the victim.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u6	I thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u7	Minister, the site of the newspaper L的Avenir of September 5 was questioning ("The Doel power station targeted by an attack?") following the discovery of the contents of a computer found in Salah Abdeslam's safe house on Dries Street in Forest. Can you tell us what this computer contained? As far as nuclear safety is concerned, what were the items, photos and/or items found on that computer? Was it only the Doel site or other sites? The SCK-CEN, whose director had been followed and filmed, is one of the examples. I suppose you'll remember that. What threats should be retained in relation to these elements? Have any action been taken as a result of these discoveries?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u8	Mr Nollet, Mr President, the Federal Prosecutor has sent me the following information. It is true that on 15 March 2016, a laptop was discovered during a search in the apartment sis rue du Dries 60 in Forest, a conspiracy apartment occupied by suspects in connection with the terrorist cell involved in the Paris bombings. However, with regard to nuclear risk issues, the following may be communicated. A sub-folder entitled "Studies" contained three video files from the French-language program "C'est pas sorcier". These videos focus on nuclear alerts, nuclear power plants and at-risk plants. The investigators also discovered two press articles from the Belgian daily La Dernière Heure. These short and general articles concerned the Doel 1 reactor and doubts about the safety of Belgian power plants. It is therefore general research which has not revealed technical details of the possible faults of Belgian power plants. No nuclear power plant plans were discovered in the computer. The Federal Judicial Police, in accordance with its legal obligations, transmitted all the information in real time to the OCAM via notes. OCAM conducted a threat analysis. As regards the measures for the protection of the administrative police, they are the responsibility of the General Directorate of the Crisis Centre under the competence of the Minister of Security and the Interior. A micro-SD card containing about 10 hours of video surveillance carried out in front of the home of the director of the Centre d'études de l'énergie nucléaire, mentioned in the question, was discovered during another search as part of the investigation into the attacks in Paris. Very specific measures had been taken immediately. Thank you, Mr. Nollet, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u9	It's my turn to thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u10	Mr President, Minister, I have asked for figures on several occasions in connection with the process of restoration of honour and rights. With this oral question, I would like, above all, to obtain general information. A number of articles relating to the procedure of restoration in honour and rights of the Code of Criminal Procedure were amended in 2016 through the so-called potpourri IV Act. Those adjustments were intended, inter alia, to include references to legal persons. Here and there, I now read that a recent change has made the procedure for recovering honour, which used to be simple but lasted for a very long time, more complicated now but shorter. It refers, inter alia, to the centralisation of applications and to the fact that it is now up to the applicant himself to request and deliver all certificates and copies within six months. The figures I requested through a written question show that the number of applications per year since 2012 has fluctuated around 1 100 per year, while in 2009 there were almost two thousand applications, all in all low figures. I am told that especially the lengthy and cumbersome procedure prevents people from asking for recovery in honor and rights. However, recovery in honour and rights is important, as the person concerned once again has a blank criminal record after obtaining that recovery, which is important in the event of further convictions. Of course, the data subject must meet the conditions for the restoration of honour and rights. Minister, do you recognise that the number of applications for recovery in honour and rights is rather low? What do you think caused it? Do you recognise the importance of the procedure of recovery in honour and rights? Is it true that changes have recently been made, as I have said, and if so, in what text can I find this centralization, the reversal of the procedure for the composition of the file and the six-month period? Are there any other changes to the procedure? When did they go in? What has been the average duration of the processing of an application for recovery in honour and rights so far? How long will the deadline be in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, within the context of an oral question, I cannot provide statistics, as you know, but your question was of a more general nature. The link between the legal amendment in 2016, which aims to ensure equal treatment for natural and legal persons, and the long lead times established in practice, does not seem to me to be directly relevant. Restoration in honour and rights is important, in my view, with a view to further re-socialisation of the offender who has carried out his sentence. Over time, a person must indeed be able to obtain a blank criminal record once again, provided that he fulfils the legal conditions under review by the judiciary, which is the chamber of indictment. The parquet general of Antwerp confirmed to me that in 2017 it worked out a uniform approach for the resort to make the procedure more efficient and faster with less workload for the parquet. Upon receipt of the application, the applicant shall be asked to draw up his own file, in accordance with a number of instructions which shall be communicated to him by letter and within six months. The applicant sometimes comes to the understanding that he does not yet meet the conditions laid down. According to the parquet, this practice appears to produce positive results and is already being taken over in the resort Ghent. There is indeed a centralisation of the dossiers. This is done in Antwerp in the Turnhout department. In Ghent a centralisation of the criminal execution files is being investigated. It is a question of defining best management practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. In particular, I learn from the answer that there are two areas of concern today which have adapted the method a little and that it is probably too early to evaluate it. I'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u13	Attached questions No 26794 by Mrs Catherine Fonck, Nos 26880 and 26882 by Mrs Katja Gabriëls and No 26941 by Mrs Monica De Coninck, which are included in item 7 of the agenda, are postponed. I now turn to agenda item 8, namely questions Nos 26797 and 26798 by Mrs özlem özen and 26909 by Mr Olivier Maingain. Mrs Özen informs me that she wishes to dissociate her question No 26797 concerning the return to court.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u14	Mr President, Minister, this year again, several magistrates have, once again, sounded the alarm on the occasion of the judicial re-entry in their traditional speech called "mercuriale". A number of magistrates pointed to a lack of resources that had an impact on the functioning of the justice system. The first Advocate General of the Court of Cassation also mentioned this in his speech back home. He stressed that your government's logic of budgetary restraint obliges Justice to tinker with the resources of the board and leads to serious consequences for Belgian society when it prevents Justice from functioning. He concludes in particularly strong words: "A State which deprives itself of justice, which dries it, ceases to be a state governed by the rule of law." The first president of the Liège Court of Appeal, Marc Dewart, wondered whether Justice still had a public service that was sufficiently accessible to all, in an egalitarian manner. In Mons, the Attorney General regrets the decrease in executives from 91 to 80 since May 2016 when the law normally provides for 98. In short, everything is probably not so pink for those actors on the ground who point out important questions about the functioning of our Justice and access to justice. Minister, what specific and specific initiatives are you going to take to address the concerns of judicial actors about the general functioning and state of our Justice? In the context of the self-management negotiations, can you give us information on the budget envelope? Would it be serious enough to enable Justice to carry out its tasks? Can you give details of his progress and of the work of consultation? Mr Minister, I propose that you follow up on my question concerning the Brussels Court of Assizes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u15	I'll read the answers consecutively.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u16	Mr Minister, at the level of the Brussels Assize Court, the Brussels Prosecutor-General, Mr Delmulle, is deeply concerned about the situation. The Committee notes that the lack of advisers to preside over sitting sessions leads to worrying delays in the scheduling of hearings. No sitting session could be scheduled between October 2018 and January 2019! With the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which leads to a resurgence of the referral to the courts of assizes, and the many trials that are expected, particularly in the field of terrorism, it is possible to expect serious dysfunctions. Minister, can you provide the figures on the framework for magistrates at the Brussels Court of Assizes? What solutions do you recommend to deal with these difficulties? Since the ruling of the Constitutional Court, you have been moving forward on a new project. In fact, experts have been heard by our committee. In this context, can you explain to us what you are heading towards? When do you think you can come with this project to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u17	Mrs Özen, my services constantly monitor the progress and occupancy of courts and prosecutors' offices. On this basis, recruitment plans are drawn up, for which priority is given to the courts with the highest workload. I therefore wish to publish 71 vacancies at the beginning of October for the office of magistrate in the judiciary, evenly distributed between the seat and the Public Prosecutor's Office. In addition, a recruitment plan for judicial personnel is being prepared. The Colleges of Courts and Courts and the Public Prosecutor's Office are invited to present a breakdown of the vacant places. In order to rapidly consolidate the registries and prosecutors' secretariats awaiting final recruitment into the judiciary, they have the possibility of temporarily hiring a total of 270 persons. Currently, the Public Prosecutor's Office is also being strengthened by prosecutors in prosecutors'offices where it is difficult to appoint magistrates for lack of candidates. In order to remedy this, the Supreme Council of Justice is again organising, at my request, a second examination of professional fitness. The written test was held on September 15, and oral tests will follow in November and December. My intention has always been to allocate sufficient resources to the Colleges when transferring management competence. This summer, I entered into a framework agreement with the College of Courts and Courts agreeing on a course of action to be taken in order to achieve self-management and provide for a first transfer of powers from 2020. In this regard, we have agreed on a budget to be allocated. After government approval, it would be transferred to the College in accordance with the timetable for successive transfers of powers. In order to strengthen the courts as well as the College of Courts and Courts at the start of this autonomy of management, I have obtained an additional budget of €8.9 million for 2019. This budget will be used to ensure the transition period, the extension of the College's support service and the additional hiring of 43 magistrates, 108 staff and 23 lawyers in the courts and tribunals. With regard to your second question, the legislator has not provided for a separate legal framework for assize courts. The Assize Court is not a permanent court. The Court shall consist of a President, who shall be an active adviser in the Court of Appeal, and two assessors appointed from among the judges active in the Court of First Instance or among the advisers from the Court of Appeal. In the case of the Public Prosecutor's Office, there is also no separate framework for prosecution within the Court of Assizes. In the context of the ruling of the Constitutional Court, a series of vacancies for the post of adviser has already been published on 20 July 2018. For future publications of vacant places for magistrates, I will also pay the necessary attention to the proper provision of the courts that make up the courts of assizes. The legislator has also created the legal possibility to appeal, with a view to the composition of the assize court, to retired judges. To this end, they may be appointed at their request, after having undergone specialized training organised by the judicial training institution. This additional measure allows the best possible allocation of expertise available to the organization. A major reform of the popular jury requires an amendment to article 150 of the Constitution, and thus a two-thirds majority. The Justice Committee held hearings, during which experts from the voluntary, judicial and academic sectors were heard. Pending a possible amendment of this constitutional article, I have inserted a few quick-impact measures into the current procedures, following advice from the College of Courts and the College of Attorneys General. They are contained in the draft law on various provisions in criminal matters which, after approval by the Council of Ministers, has been submitted for the opinion of the Council of State. The draft will of course be submitted to the committee upon receipt of the opinion of the Council of State. With respect to safety, each hearing is subject to a pre-hearing risk analysis. Where the context of the trial, the parties involved or any other external factor so requires, the security measures shall be adapted. The competent local police determine these in close cooperation with the magistrates. It goes without saying that a trial such as that of the Jewish museum is already the subject of special attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u18	Minister, thank you for your extremely detailed answer, which I will be aware of. This is not the first time I have asked you about the lack of magistrates or the recurrent dysfunctions caused by the lack of staff. You tell me about a recruitment plan and you tell me the method used. But I do not understand that, knowing the number of vacant places, you do not anticipate. As all actors in the judiciary have been doing since the beginning of this legislature, I have been sounding the alarm. There are more and more cases and fewer and fewer magistrates to deal with them. There is a huge problem here. Justice will simply not be done. You say that, in the course of October, 71 vacant places will be filled. Minister, these places have been vacant for a long time. On the other hand, you say that some colleagues will come to support you. But if they strengthen one service, they reinforce another and, at one point, it will be chaos. For a long time, we have been drawing attention to this dysfunction. I fear the worst.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u19	Debates of the European Parliament 26872 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u20	Minister, the debate on the so-called'sexual majority' has been going on in the legal world for a number of years. It is therefore a good thing that the coalition agreement included the need to harmonise the relevant legislation. We were able to read in the press at the end of July 2018 that an agreement has been reached, which will take shape in the draft new Criminal Code. There would be an agreement to record sexual adulthood at 14 years of age, if there is no relationship of authority and the age difference between the partners does not exceed 5 years. That is also the content of a legislative proposal that we submitted in May 2015. Are those modalities correct? What further way is there going to be? I note that I have also asked for figures in the question submitted. You will probably answer that question in writing. So I will drop that question today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u21	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, the draft book II of the new penal code includes in Title II on crimes against persons all criminal provisions relating to sexual criminal law. Indeed, the many legislative proposals on the criminal sexual majority which have already been tabled by various political groups, including your legislative proposal, have been taken into account. The draft law assumes full consent from the age of 16. However, authorisation may be given from the age of 14 if there is a maximum age difference of 5 years between the partners and there is no authority or trust position. Within the scope of an oral parliamentary question, it is in any case not possible to provide detailed figures. You mentioned it yourself, but I would like to conclude by pointing out that infringements of the current criminal law, whereby the minor granted permission to the also minor partner, but was not competent to do so, will often not be subject to criminal law. They are dealt with within the framework of youth protection law. The police statistics of the courts are therefore of little relevance, at least in the area of this type of crime.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u22	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u23	Minister, as you know, I come from the region where Lernout & Hauspie was applauded at the time. Everyone knows that the procedures in this case have been dragging on for a long time. The civilisation of the fraud case, which still has to determine the amount of compensation for the victims, is only planned on 8 March 2019. On 20 September 2010, the founders were already convicted by the Ghent court of appeal, but the settlement of the damages is therefore pending. Of course, this is a complex case, with more than fifteen thousand bourgeois parties, of which 2 733 have not appealed to a lawyer. More than ten years ago, in November 2007, I asked a question in this committee about the costs to your predecessor, Laurette Onkelinx. She replied: "The amount of EUR 500 000 mentioned by you will not be used to cover the legal costs in the proper sense of the word, but to cover operating costs such as the rent of the hall in the Congress Palace in Ghent, the security staff, the reception and the like. This is an exceptional process involving no less than 18 000 civil parties. As the process progresses, it will become clear whether additional resources should be provided." Minister, it has been 17 years since the company went bankrupt. Is it the complexity and the many bourgeois parties that drag this on for so long? When you call the court of appeal in Ghent today, you are asked to check a choice, where choice 1 still refers to the Lernout & Hauspie process. Why is that still necessary today? How much are operating costs so far? What figures are available on the cost of the process? Can you deliver them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u24	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, as you yourself point out, this is a very complex and extensive case with a lot of bourgeois parties. The civil interests were dealt with in autumn 2016. A judgment of March 2017 laid down the principles of compensation, in particular who can claim what damages and what evidence should be provided for that purpose. The case was continued at the end of June 2018, but was postponed at the request of the defendant. Specifically regarding the costs, I can inform you that the costs of renting the court for the criminal case and for the rent of the seats and the video for the treatment of civil interests were paid by the FPS Justice in 2016 and that the other logistical costs were borne by the court. I cannot give you more detailed figures on costs in the context of this question. Also on the second question, why the phone still mentions Lernout & Hauspie as the first choice, the court of appeal could not give me an answer on that short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u25	Mr President, Minister, I will come back to this pertinent question shortly, when we have had the time to find out and, if necessary, to resolve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u26	Mr President, Minister, I have introduced the written version of this oral question with a concrete example. I am not going to read out this specific situation; I am referring to what is written about it. My question concerns the current principle in our country where the obtaining limitation period can only be invoked as a defendant and not as a plaintiff. Practice shows that often a construction has to be set up in a court of peace procedure, where someone claims to be the owner and on which the sellers as defendants have to make a counterclaim. It is not just a matter of cases, because it is often the case that such a construction has to be set up. Mr Minister, in the current state of our legislation, what solutions can be found for buyers or sellers for whom the owner is no longer known, in view of the fact that the persons concerned cannot buy or sell the land themselves because no owner is known? Can it be an option for the recipient of the limitation period to be extended to cover a claimant, thus no longer subject to the condition that only a defendant may invoke the obtaining limitation period? Can you think of a simpler solution to this problem for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u27	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, it has been traditionally defended that, in the absence of an agreement or unilateral declaration by the owner who has been deprived of possession and who establishes the limitation period for obtaining, the property can only be raised as a defence. However, views on these issues are evolving. This new trend within the legal process and the doctrine of law finds that the owner has a claim against the original owner, based on Article 544 of the Civil Code, which allows him to have his right of ownership recognised in law. As you know, a preliminary draft law introducing a Book III on the right of goods into the newly re-codified Civil Code is currently being finalised. The purpose of this preliminary draft is, inter alia, to insert a new Article 3.26 which sets out the various ways in which the recipient may validly invoke the limitation period and which expressly allows the owner himself to bring a legal action. The unilateral declaration by the owner, whose scope is uncertain, is therefore not included as a valid means of calling for a obtaining limitation period. In the situation in which an out-of-control debt holder is unfamiliar or untraceable or in which a immovable property has never had an owner, the owner will still be able to claim legal proceedings against the State, to which real estate without owner is at present already belonging under Article 713 of the Civil Code, which will be confirmed in the near future by the proposed new Article 3.81. For reasons of legal certainty, the proposed new Article 3.26 provides for the possibility of transferring the judicial decision, agreement or declaration on an immovable right, if authentic, to the mortgage registers, in conjunction with the proposed new Article 3.30. This strengthens the legal position of those who invoke the obtaining limitation period and simplifies the task of those who are dealing with real estate in a professional capacity, such as notaries and mortgage holders.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u28	Thank you for your positive reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic963x.u29	Question 26833 by Mrs Gabriels has been converted into a written question. Mr. Maingain did not join us in asking his questions 26909 and 26910. This concludes our work this afternoon.
