ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u1	Question No 23827 by Mr Stéphane Crusnière is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u2	Mr President, Minister, I learned in a press release that the Council of Ministers agreed to the new studies of the Defence Science and Technology Research Program 2018. This research program currently includes 73 studies at various Defence Research Centres and the Royal Museum of Army and Military History. Important collaboration with Belgian and foreign academic institutions is also being implemented. In addition, six new internal studies at the Royal Higher Defence Institute have recently been planned. Minister, what is the area of these six new studies? What is the budget for the 2018 research and technology programme compared to previous years? What is the place of the Royal Military School in this program? With which universities does Defence collaborate? In this context, are civil-military synergies at the industrial and European levels being sought?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u3	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Chabot, in 2018, the six internal studies at the Royal Higher Defence Institute will be carried out within the Centre for Security and Defence Studies. These studies cover the field of security and defence policy, terrorism and cybersecurity. These areas were selected based on the evolution of the security environment, elements of the strategic vision for Defence, and expertise at the Centre for Security and Defence Studies. The budget allocated to the scientific and technological research programme is EUR 4.624 million and is consistent with previous years. It fully covers the 2018 program. Of the 73 research projects, six are conducted at the Royal Superior Defence Institute, fifty-one at the Royal Military School, eight at the Queen Astrid Military Hospital, three at the War Heritage Institute and five at the various Defence laboratories. As part of scientific research, Defence collaborates with all national universities and national and international research institutes. As part of the synergies, I commissioned the Royal Higher Defence Institute to implement the triple propeller concept within Defence. By definition, this concept involves the establishment of cooperation agreements between Defence, companies, research institutes and the academic world, both at national and international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u5	Minister, your strategic vision is to review Defence sourcing and, as a result, outsource certain tasks previously undertaken by Defence personnel. This outsourcing to the civilian sector would, in your view, save 5,000 full-time equivalents (FTEs), which would amount to around 275 million euros. As part of this outsourcing, the white fleet, which currently has six aircraft for the transport of personalities in particular, is likely to disappear to the benefit of contracts with the civilian under a leasing system. Such a change is expected to save between 12 and 15 per cent over the next eight years, if we believe in a television report on this subject. Mr Minister, is there already a precise timetable, including a budget, for the "extinction" of the white Defence fleet? Can you bring to our knowledge the calculation that allows you to achieve an expected economy of 12-15% over the next eight years by using outsourcing? What will be the impact of this announced outsourcing on the staff and infrastructure of this white fleet? Finally, is collaboration with other public services foreseen in this framework, such as B-FAST? Are agreements with civil aviation already under discussion?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u6	Mr President, Mr Chabot, with regard to small aircraft, namely Embraer and Falcon 900, the transition from a commercial fleet to a service contract is planned between 2018 and 2021. The timing of the withdrawal of the various aircraft is dictated by the large inspections to be carried out on these aircraft. As regards the service contract for the A321, it will be gradually replaced by our participation in the MRTT (Multi Role Tanker Transport) programme from 2020 onwards. The potential savings that go hand in hand with the transition are the result of the combination, on the one hand, of the cessation of maintenance of the current fleet with, on the other hand, the possible revenues resulting from the sale of the current fleet and, on the other hand, the savings in personnel resulting mainly from the outsourcing of maintenance. The technical staff who are now working on the commercial fleet will eventually either leave Defence after a natural departure from the pension or be converted to the A400M with all C-130 personnel. For crews, a number of crews will be maintained in order to be able to fly with aircraft on the service contract. The transition from the A321 to the MRTT could have a positive impact on cooperation with other services, such as B-FAST, due to the greater transport capacity of the MRTT compared to the current A321.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u7	Minister, as we know, without any consultation and without taking into account the human and budgetary impacts, this government decided at the end of 2016 to raise the pension age of the military, an age that had to be gradually changed to 63 by 2030. Since then, both the military and the unions have been in the unknown. At this time, the situation remains unclear. An agreement seemed to have been reached last October on the categorization of military personnel in difficult occupations. However, today, there seems to be no progress on the issue and there seems to be no determination as to whether being a military is a difficult job. Two points remain unknown and are still worrying our soldiers, namely the determination of the painful profession and the end-of-career measures. Minister, what is the current status of proposals for the end of military careers, particularly with regard to career savings? Are other proposals to improve the end of military careers under consideration? What about the end-of-career measures for members who need to be in-house at the Defence level? Do you have a clearer idea of the potential budgetary and human impact of this decision on your strategic vision?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u8	Minister, I have already received several signals from the military that the calculation of their pension through MyPension.be is not going smoothly. The years of service as a temporary military would be missing from the career review. One of the soldiers concerned reports that six years of military service, both of himself and of his colleagues, are not to be found on MyPension.be. The missing years are listed by everyone as unknown. The result is that the Federal Pension Service does not take it into account in the calculation. Those concerned are now seeking to regularise their service years on an individual basis, for the time being without success. My colleague Karin Temmerman already asked a question about this to the Minister for Pensions. According to him, the responsibility for this lies with the public employer. The public sector is itself responsible for the transmission of career data. The Minister also indicated that he would consider imposing a sanction on public sector employers who have still not provided their career data more than two years after the deadline set by the Capelo Act. I have the following questions. Firstly, for what reason is the data not passed on or not yet passed on? Secondly, how will you solve that problem? Thirdly, what time will you resolve it? Fourthly, what happens to workers who, if all data are correctly entered, could retire very soon, but who, due to the lack of data, have to work longer? In that case, the end date is not correct. Fifth, should the data be searched manually? Last but not least, how many soldiers have no idea of a proper pension calculation as a result of this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u9	Minister, on April 4, I was able to read that Defence personnel were dissatisfied with the federal government's agreement on arduous duties as part of pension reform. Currently, military personnel can retire at 56 years of age. With the new pension scheme, they are now expected to work up to an additional seven years. This would increase their retirement age to 63 years or, in the best case, to 60 years if they obtain the highest coefficient of penitibility. A transition period of 20 years would be foreseen. As such, the Minister of Pensions will soon have to negotiate with the social partners in order to find common ground. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Will the military function be classified as one of the most difficult careers, or will only certain functions benefit from this status? Have you already quantified the cost of this measure that is difficult to justify for Defence? Similarly, what impact will it have on your strategic vision, both in budgetary terms and in terms of age pyramids?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u10	Minister, we are following with great interest the negotiations on the concept of hard work, on which we hope a positive and rapid outcome for all members of the military. You know the concern of all ranks of the military about this case. It will also be necessary – I sincerely believe it and have already repeated it – to communicate objectively during the final results of these negotiations. Minister, following the decision in principle of a reform of the military pension system in October 2016 and following the opening of the negotiations on pension reform by the Council of Ministers on 4 April 2016, your strategic unit undertook, in a draft of measures of joint relaxation with the Pensions Office, to study a system of pre-pension leave linked to the specific nature of the military profession. Minister, can you confirm this information formally? I have seen that there is a similar system in other sectors, particularly in Belgocontrol. What is the status of this project within your department? Is a proposal expected in parallel with the negotiations on penitibility, in order to facilitate their progress? Will this proposal be discussed in advance with the representative trade union organisations, just as your colleague from the Pensions has done on easing measures? More broadly, what is the status of pensions for both civilian and military defence personnel? Is a re-evaluation of the member's status envisaged as a result of this possible career extension?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to identify the cause of the problem of the lack of data on MyPension.be, a meeting between the Defence Personnel Administration and the Federal Pension Service took place on 28 March 2018. This meeting showed that the Department of Defense has transferred all the necessary data to the Federal Pension Service in good time. The Federal Pension Service stressed that everyone should direct their application directly to him and not through Defense. Since the date of retirement at the age of the military is independent of the data contained in MyPension.be, the problem cited cannot give rise to a possible extension of the career and cannot give rise to an impossibility of raising the pension. At the Council of Ministers on 4 April 2018, the Government approved a preliminary draft law on the recognition of the tenability of certain functions and amending the military pension system. This preliminary draft contains specific transitional measures for the military. Among other things, it must still be subject to social consultation, including social negotiation within the negotiating committee responsible for military personnel. Taking into account the decisions of 4 April 2018, Defence is currently quantifying the budgetary impact as well as the impact on the parameters of the strategic vision. It is clear that changing the retirement age of members will require a review of different aspects of the military career, starting with the component directly related to the end of the military career. You will understand that it is impossible for me to provide more details until formal discussions with trade union organisations have taken place or are under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u12	Mr President, I thank the minister for his almost non-response. I will come back to him with a question when an agreement with the trade union organisations has been reached hoping that it will not be too late to relieve our soldiers at the time of their end of their career in a difficult job.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u13	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the information, but I find it strange that the absence of, for example, six years of seniority in the pension file does not affect the retirement age and the amount. I think this is a miscalculation when people retire. If everything was passed on to the pension services and forwarded directly to them, I will put this question to the Minister for Pensions. In this way, it is possible to find out where the error is correct, so that the military get what they are effectively entitled to, and preferably as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u14	Just to be clear: when I say that this has no impact on the retirement age and the amount of pension, this is obviously about people who retire as military. To people who have a mixed career, who have ever worked at the Department of Defense, I can only say that we have provided the data. MyPension.be is a website that is not under my control. It's hard for me to have a direct impact on that. If there are any problems, you will be asked to contact the Pension Service and then you will be fine. This is annoying, of course, but everyone will get what they deserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u15	It's complicated sometimes. Citizens can consult their files via MyPension.be. This is about the application of Capelo, in which employers, including the Defense Department, have to enter data. If those data were passed on, I will ask the Minister of Pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answers. It would be interesting to know, in due course, the impact of these measures on the budget, but also on the age pyramid.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers. In any case, many questions remain open, which I can understand since important negotiations are still to take place. You will have understood that the questions I have asked you are of paramount importance to the military concerned. Attention will therefore have to be paid, including in the forthcoming negotiations, in order to provide them with clear and correct answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u18	Mr President, Minister, at a time of European integration, globalisation and the various threats to our daily lives, Belgian citizens seem to be quite in favour of the re-establishment of military service. Indeed, according to a survey published in mid-March, the popularity of military service would continue to grow. The survey indicates that 65% of Belgians believe that this would be a good idea. Looking at the regions, the Walloons are the most favourable for the re-establishment of military service (78%), ahead of the Brussels and Flemish. Minister, what would be the cost of reintroduction of military service? Are there no intermediate measures to reflect on differentiated recruitments that may be similar to this type of service?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u19	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, military service was suspended in 1994 as a result of its unsocial and inequitable character and cost considered too high. The reintroduction of military service is not provided for in the government agreement. It is not a solution to the various threats and challenges facing our daily lives. To cope with this, we need a professional, well-equipped, flexible and rapidly deployable army. Men and women in this Defence must be trained and trained in a highly specialized manner, often for engagement in operations or missions abroad. In addition to these questions of opportunity, the possible reintroduction of military service poses practical problems, such as the ability to select and train, the need for equipment and infrastructure, etc. For these reasons, Defence does not intend to reintroduce military service, but a modern and adapted reserve could be an alternative. I am thinking here of a light reserve infantry, which could be entrusted with operational tasks, as well as a reserve specialized in areas such as cyber or construction. The duration of commitments should, of course, be reviewed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u20	Thank you very much, Minister, for this clear answer. I didn't expect anything else, but I still wanted to ask the question. We have already discussed this recruitment problem a lot, you and I. When we know that the enthusiasm exists and that, in addition, the formations, as I understand them, must be absolutely professionalized and adapted to the new needs of Defence, perhaps we should ask ourselves whether it is not possible to take advantage of this enthusiasm to promote careers in the army. But for that to happen, we will have to solve other problems that we have already mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u21	Question No 24959 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u22	Mrs Jadin withdrew her question No 24578.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u23	Mr President, Minister, I read in the press that the state of the military barracks is pointed out by the unions and the military. These barracks would be unsanitary and dangerous. Most buildings no longer meet current safety standards and sanitary conditions are poor. This is due to the aging of buildings, but also to the lack of preventive and corrective maintenance, which is more compelling. All of this has the effect that it has become difficult for Defence personnel to work in good conditions. To address this problem, the government has planned a €9.7 million investment plan. Between 2016 and 2017, €3.5 million would have already been invested for this purpose. As you will not implement the geographic location plan for neighbourhoods set out in your strategic vision, I would like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. What concrete measures do you intend to take to remedy this situation and to ensure the safety of staff members? Since taking up your duties, can you indicate what work has been done or is currently being done, and at what military facilities are they being carried out? What will happen by the end of the legislature? Will the long-term investments be sufficient to meet the safety and health standards of all buildings that will make up Defence's heritage by 2030?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u24	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chabot, because of the relatively high age and extent of this property, certain Defence facilities no longer meet certain current safety standards or the desired sanitary conditions. I also made this observation during my frequent visits to the units. In order to put an end to this situation, a renovation plan focusing on sanitation facilities has been developed. Through the implementation of this plan, overall sanitation will be progressively achieved. In setting priorities, account has been taken of legal obligations, the type of buildings, physical safety, the number of users, the alternatives available in the vicinity and the evolution of regulations. Consultation with staff representatives was first and foremost carried out at the local level. The plan was then discussed at the High Committee for Welfare. The implementation of the plan is carried out on the basis of open and flexible contracts which allow specialized contractors to intervene in relatively short periods of time. These may include maintenance, renewal, extension and upgrading of the infrastructure. All the works provided for in the renovation plan are included in a table which, given its purely informative and evolutionary nature, can be consulted at the Registry. I'm going to forward it to the committee secretary so you can consult with him. However, this is not a contract, but only a list of forecasts. Finally, know that since 2015, Defence has spent around 190 million euros on infrastructure renewal and on small and large building maintenance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u26	Question No 24556 and Question No 24559 Question No 24558 and Question No Mr Dallemagne's 24560 will be converted into written questions. I propose that the questions put together under item 11 should be dealt with. I'll be the last to ask my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u27	Mr President, since the subject was discussed at the beginning of the sitting, I will adjust my question. I indicated the differences between the audit summary and the external audit itself. Why, Minister, did you distribute at last Friday's committee a report that did not include the conclusion of question 3 of the external audit in an exhaustive way? Who, then, wrote this summary? Lieutenant General Debaene said on Friday, during his presentation, that it was impossible to upgrade the Belgian F-16s to fly more than eight thousand hours, which you confirmed. If the opposite were to be demonstrated, what conclusions would you draw, both as to the continuation of the procedure and as to your responsibility as well as that of the top army? Even the external audit raises that while the eight thousand hours can be exceeded, there remains a major problem with handling by the air force management. If this fact were to be proven and it is therefore possible to extend the lifespan of the F-16s in the coming days, will you stop the procedure and draw the necessary conclusions? With regard to the audit and the exchange of e-mails saying very clearly that information should not be sent out for fear of influencing the F-16 replacement decision-making process, I did not find an answer in the documents that were presented to us yesterday. What can you tell us about this? How was KPMG chosen to conduct the external audit, knowing that this multinational consultancy is itself active in the military sector and that it has partnerships, particularly with Lockheed Martin?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u28	Mr President, Minister, my first question is somewhat preventive. I'd like some more information on the equipment of the F-35, if we were to buy that device effectively. Will the plane be equipped with a rotating Gatling Cannon or not? If so, is there any chance that depleted uranium ammunition will be used in that cannon? There is a Belgian law which forbids this and my question is whether it will be complied with. My second question, Minister, is whether the content of the audit reports we discussed this morning is confidential in your view. If so, on what legal basis are the audit reports kept confidential and not made public?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u29	Mr President, Minister, a little over two weeks ago, it was reported that several senior military officials had kept secret a report by the American aircraft manufacturer Lockheed Martin, according to which the Belgian F-16s could fly longer than expected. Following these revelations, two investigations - internal and external - were commissioned. Defence has already presented the preliminary results of its audit. The results of the external audit are also known. Minister, who chose the external auditor? What conclusions do you draw from these audits? What follow-up do you intend to give? Will the results of these audits prompt you to suspend the current procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u30	Mr Minister, in the midst of the revelations about the studies on a theoretical lifetime extension of our F-16-year-olds, it came to light that your former Deputy Head of Cabinet has been lobbying for Lockheed Martin. In the Committee on Defence, you stated, among other things, that this employee dealt with purely parliamentary questions in your cabinet and did not come into contact with the file on the follow-up of the F-16. You also stated that an investigation was initiated by the Federal Internal Audit Service, which showed that the communication between the employee in question and Lockheed Martin was purely the job and not the replacement file. In addition, I refer to a picture of Mr Put on the website of a certain dr. James Neathery. The following text shall be inserted: Simon Put of the Belgian government at the Lockheed Martin F-35 manufacturing facility. I gave you the link in my question. I had two questions about that. However, I withdraw the second question, which has already been discussed enough and which we have already received enough information. So my question is as follows. Can you give us a timetable on the matter? How long did this ex-worker work for you before he became known to be in contact with Lockheed Martin? When did he leave the cabinet? Can you outline the context of Mr Put's picture? When did the mentioned visit take place and under what circumstances? In what capacity was Mr Put there? Were you aware of that? Did he get permission from yourself or from the head of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vandenput, I will reply as I am preparing. I shall therefore begin with your answer. You refer to my statements in the Committee on Defence, where I have indeed confirmed that an external investigation shows that communication by Mr Put and Mr Lockheed Martin was purely his application and not the replacement dossier. You are now asking me about the way in which this employee, who worked in my cabinet from the beginning of the legislature, left the cabinet. At the time when Mr Put announced to me his intention to work at Lockheed Martin or a related company in the future, I do not think that I am a lobbyist, although I have not had any contact with him since then, I have immediately terminated the cooperation. He also immediately left the cabinet. That was on December 21, 2017. Although Mr Put was not involved in the content of the file on the replacement of the F-16, I was sure to have the FIA conducting an investigation, including a forensic investigation, in which Mr Put gave voluntary access to all his mail and telephone traffic. The investigation found that Mr Put had no information relevant to one or more candidates, nor that he would have passed on that information. However, he did not register his participation in the selection process for Lockheed Martin, as opposed to the agreements we made internally in our cabinet. In particular, we have a book in which such contacts should be noted. The audit states that his contacts with his new employer should only be seen in the light of the application. I quote: "They start in October 2017. From the e-mails we can conclude that these contacts have involved a recruitment at Lockheed Martin. You also added a photo, Mr Vandenput. This picture dates back to the period before Mr Put worked with me in the cabinet. So that didn't happen under my auspices. Mr Van der Maelen, I have submitted the documents to the committee secretariat according to the teams concerning confidential documents and their handling in the Chamber. As you know, I have delivered the executive summary of the documents to Members of Parliament in the two national languages. I am therefore giving Parliament maximum transparency, but I must also respect the confidentiality requested by the authors of the report. The internal investigation report is confidential on the basis of the 1998 law. The external document considers the author to be FIA highly confidential, which is also literally on the document, as you could see. The latter is confidential because of the nature of the data. This is a forensic investigation. That's different from a classic audit, because in a forensic investigation, e-mails and phone traffic are analysed. A forensic investigation therefore contains a number of personal data that are distracted from the public. Mr Hedebouw, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, with regard to the internal investigation and external audit, I refer to what was said in committee on Friday. In the meantime, parliamentarians may consult these documents as well as responses received from the F-16 System Program Office. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that recommendations have been made by the Inspector General and by the external audit and that they should be implemented as quickly as possible. As such, I sent a note to the Chief of Defence. Meanwhile, the evaluation of the BAFOs (best and final offers) by the different teams continues. Mr van der Maelen, as far as your question on the use of depleted uranium is concerned, I have told you a number of times that the government has opted for an open procedure and that the RfGP is available on the Internet. In this context, there are no requirements in the RfGP regarding your specific question about uranium reinforced ammunition. I don't know the content of both candidates' offers today, so I can't possibly answer your question. Here's another thing. Otherwise, we're gonna have intentional processes again. It is not a demand, nor is it my wish that they should be equipped in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u33	Minister, you have not given much of the answer to the upgrade. With regard to your ex-collaborator, Mr Simon Put, about which I have already questioned you in connection with the order of business, a photo shows that your collaborator was already involved at least in a lobbying process in relation to the F-35. Your weight argument was then to say that it was before he worked at your house. As I understand it, minister, Mr. Put was active in Lockheed Martin's "F-35 Sector" before you and after. Is that correct? To make it clear, minister, could we not invite him to committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u34	Mr Hedebouw, what you are saying is completely beside the issue. What I am saying is that there was indeed a picture taken for an F-35, like there are pictures for other devices and for other weapons, because Simon Put was indeed active as an employee here in Parliament. So in the past he has made a number of visits, like there will be people here who have a photo...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u35	...for an F-35.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u36	...or for a plane from the white fleet, Mr. Hellings. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u37	Only with an F-16.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u38	Minister, I understand that about the photo with the F-35, you're talking by chance; it was before he worked in your office. Don't you think it would be interesting to invite him to committee? It's not common anyway! Do you agree that there is a democratic problem with one of your collaborators, not the least, who is going to work at Lockheed Martin? In terms of collusion between the political and industrial worlds, this is a problem! We're talking about whether people in your firm were aware of certain information and you have here someone who worked in your firm, then went to work at Lockheed Martin and who, just before, got shot in F-35!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u39	Mr Hedebouw, the Minister replied clearly. In the course of the work, the President made it clear that Mr Put was invited but did not accept our invitation. So you can't blame the Minister for that. He's definitely invited.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u40	You can invite him a second time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u41	We can try again, indeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic863x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for the answer and I am glad that we are on the same page with regard to depleted uranium. As far as the audit reports are concerned, you refer to the 1998 law. In my view, the 1998 law provides that a classification can be reversed by the person who gave the classification and by his superiors. I may be mistaken, because I am a lawyer of education, but that was a long time ago. However, I assume that you meet that last definition. If a person without security clearance gets a document from you, there are two possibilities. Either you implicitly declassified this yourself, so that we can freely talk about its content, or you did not, and then you are punishable under the 1998 law because you delivered a document that you did not declassify to Members of Parliament who do not have security clearance.
