ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u1	Minister, I would like to ask you again about the situation in Syria and the potential chemical attacks allegedly carried out by the regime in eastern Ghouta, causing some 60 deaths and a thousand injuries. Following this escalation of unacceptable violence, several States called for an urgent meeting of the United Nations Security Council to discuss the likely chemical attacks. My question is already some time ago. Since then, the United Nations Special Envoy has, inter alia, expressed concern about developments that are becoming increasingly uncontrollable. Minister, I would like to take stock with you of the current situation. What are the consequences of this topicality, and in particular of the negotiations at the UN level? What are the consequences for Belgian engagement in the international coalition against Daesh?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u2	Minister, around 15 April, the US, British and French military forces launched an aerial bombing operation targeting military sites and a suspected research centre hosting the chemical programme of the Syrian regime in Bashar al-Assad, near Homs and Damascus. This initiative was taken outside any mandate of the UN Security Council while independent verifications were under way and the European Union and/or NATO were not involved. Even more incredible, these operations have been planned outside the ad hoc command structure of the coalition which, for several years, has overseen the air actions undertaken over Iraq and Syria with a view to fighting Daesh. While the resolution of the House of Representatives of 30 June 2016 which was politically valid for the intervention of six F-16s in Syria did not even mention - in fact scandalously enough - the name of the Syrian dictator, it seems that our main allies in the coalition have begun, alone, a tactical turn of the most amazing. Mr Minister, has Belgian Defence, at any point in the preparatory phase for these bombings, been associated or informed through the European Union, NATO or other channels? Do you confirm that these military initiatives were taken totally unilaterally by our three main military allies? How do you measure the impact of these strikes on the political level, knowing that, so far, the government and the parliamentary majority had never considered hitting the Syrian regime? Let us recall the resolution. Indeed, just three months ago, the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister were suddenly visiting the main support of the Damascus regime, namely Vladimir Putin's Russian government. On 13 July 2016, during an exchange on the modalities for the execution of Operation Desert Falcon, you informed me of the existence of an agreement signed on 20 October 2015 by General Austin, former commander of the United States Central Command, and Colonel-General Bondarev, the Commander-in-Chief of the Russian Air Force.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u3	According to your comments, this convention aims to "prevent any incident between international coalition aircraft and Russian aircraft". Can you tell us whether this convention is still applicable in the light of recent events? Was it finally denounced?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u4	Mr President, my question is dated 16 April, but I am delivering it to you as it stands. Minister, on 14 April, targeted military strikes against three sites identified as linked to a Syrian chemical weapons programme were carried out in Syria against the Damascus regime by the United States, France and the United Kingdom. This was a response to the chemical attack carried out by President al-Assad's forces on 7 April in Duma, which was the last rebel stronghold in Ghouta near Damascus. Mr Minister, has Belgium been informed beforehand of this operation by its allies? In what way, by what channel? Did the military in the Region have to make special arrangements in the context of these bombings, such as alerting, strengthening security or possible preventive withdrawal of certain areas? Have the European Union and NATO been involved in the discussions and preparations that preceded these strikes? Have they been informed of their launch? Has it been envisaged at any time to carry out these actions on behalf of NATO? What analysis do you make of the legal and political foundations of these strikes? Does UN Security Council Resolution 2118 of 27 September 2013 seem to you to provide a sufficient and adequate legal basis to justify such an operation? If that had been asked of us, would you have considered that the legal basis referred to was sufficiently relevant so that the Belgian government could allow our soldiers to participate in this action alongside the British, French and Americans? What were the results of these bombings, both politically and at the military level, on the ground? Do you have specific information about this? Have Syrian military forces and their ability to harm really been impacted and weakened by this operation? Following these chemical attacks and Russia's reaffirmed support for the Bashar al-Assad regime, should we seek to isolate and punish the Russian government further so that it itself may put pressure on its Syrian ally? How should we react to Iran, another loyal ally of Damascus? Could new strikes by the same three countries, by an enlarged coalition, or by NATO itself be envisaged and, if so, in what form and under what legal and political modalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u5	Mr Hellings, I see you had two questions (Nos. 24892 and 26037). Did you both put them down at the same time?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u6	I only have one question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the events in the eastern Ghouta region in the eastern suburbs of Damascus and the ensuing reactions, our troops deployed in Jordan and Iraq continue to apply normal precautionary measures and continue their activities within the framework of their mandate. The Defence was informed, by elements within the coalition, of the intentions of the Americans to carry out strikes. Through open sources, Defence has learned, like everyone else, the intentions of the United Kingdom and France. It was only after the attack that Belgium was more precisely informed through bilateral and multilateral channels and, among other things, in the form of a North Atlantic Council (NAC) meeting with NATO. These attacks are not part of the actions of the international coalition aimed only at Daesh and, therefore, the coalition did not discuss them. On the basis of existing information, the partners were likely able to significantly reduce the development and storage of Syrian chemical capacities. As regards the political impact of these strikes and possible reactions to Russia and Iran, I invite you to ask your questions to the Foreign Minister, who is responsible for this matter. According to the information available, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) regulating the technical-military aspects of the security of operations in Syria, signed by Russia and the United States, is still applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u8	Minister, thank you for your brief answer. We had already had the opportunity to question the Minister of Foreign Affairs on this issue. The international community has rightly condemned these chemical strikes. It is important to maintain the pressure on the regime. The recent election of Belgium to the Security Council will surely allow us to make our voice heard. I hope that we will have a role to play here. Once again, I insist - and I do so regularly in this committee as in the Monitoring of Military Operations - on the aspect of the necessary reconstruction. Indeed, we risk seeing a new form of radicalisation. I would like to emphasize the 3D strategy: Defence, Development, Diplomacy. We must now direct our action in this area precisely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u9	Minister, on 30 June 2016, when we discussed the resolution leading Belgium to become a coalition partner in the war against Syria, I told you that Daesh and Bashar al-Assad are the two sides of the same coin. They feed each other. Daesh was born in Syria because the regime of Bashar al-Assad despises the Sunnis and many of them joined Daesh because they wanted to fight Bashar al-Assad. It's a complex situation that doesn't settle in two shots of potting. Today, it must be noted that the coalition, or in any case members of the coalition, are running in Syria like hens with no head, with no real strategy. The main assets of the enemies of Daesh and the regime of Bashar al-Assad are not military; they are ideological: it is propaganda. Unfortunately, this lack of concrete strategy amplifies the strength of our enemies, namely Russia, the regime of Bashar al-Assad and Daesh.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u10	Mr Minister, I thank you for your answer, which is quite brief, because I was also asking you about the legal basis and the military and political consequences. That said, in reality, I welcome this intervention, which unfortunately arrived very, very late. Many red lines have been crossed long before. I hope that Belgium will continue to ensure that peace is restored, that Bashar al-Assad leaves power as soon as possible and that the suffering of the Syrian population is significantly reduced. With regard to these chemical attacks, I also hope that we will continue to try to establish the truth, that Belgium will make every effort to understand how, from our country, it has been possible to manufacture and sell products used in the production of chemical weapons.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u11	Questions Nos 24959 and 25127 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Top's 25194 has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u12	Mr. Chairman, Minister, I would like to ask you about the inclusion of salary supplements in the calculation of the pensions of military personnel performing a paramedical function in the Defence. This supplement was part of the salary and was therefore taken into account when calculating the pension until 2011. Since then, this supplement has not been taken into account, although it is still taken into account for civilian staff. Minister, can you give me an update on this matter? What initiatives have you taken in this regard? Have you contacted your colleague in charge of Pensions to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u13	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, you are right: this is a matter for the Minister of Pensions. In order to take account of the 11% salary supplement for irregular benefits in the calculation of the pension, a royal decree must be adapted. This adjustment is the responsibility of the Minister of Pensions. We have been confirmed that the budgetary impact of such a measure is under consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u14	Minister, you're really getting us used to short answers today. I hear it's a competence of the Minister of Pensions. Nevertheless, in an answer you made to my colleague Wouter De Vriendt in July 2017, you were talking about this order that was to be taken. I now hear that the budgetary impact needs to be assessed. It still has an influence on many people. As a competent minister for the medical component, I think you can also put a little more pressure on the Minister of Pensions to move forward on this issue, and possibly also on the Minister of Budget, for the evaluation. In any case, know that I will continue to do so! I'll ask the Minister of Pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u15	Mr President, Minister, I would like first of all to welcome the initiative of the War Heritage lnstitute (WHI) to identify our forgotten heroes who are resting in civilian cemeteries and not with their brothers and sisters in military cemeteries. It is true that these burials are often abandoned because of a lack of knowledge of the municipality and the general public about the identity of the people resting there. The aim of the project is, once the census has been completed, to place, in cooperation with the municipalities, commemorative plaques on these forgotten graves. That was also the objective of your recent visit as well as that of the King in a Brussels cemetery. I would like to take this opportunity to share with you a problem that also concerns our fallen soldiers during the two world wars. You certainly know that the majority of the commemorative plaques that adorn our country are made of bronze and that, unfortunately, they have been the subject of a nationwide organized flight for several years. Our memorial sites are unscrupulously desecrated. Minister, what global reflection are you taking with the WHI and the municipalities concerned in the material preservation of these places of memory and commemorative plaques in order to preserve them in time as well as to avoid theft and vandalism?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u16	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Fernandez Fernandez, the commemorative plaques are made of hot enamelled copper. I am, like you, particularly sensitive to the material preservation of these places of memory and commemorative plaques, in order to preserve them in time and to avoid theft and vandalism. This is why the War Heritage Institute will soon initiate a reflection in this direction with the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u17	Minister, thank you for that answer. I am pleased that such a reflection is being carried out. I will come back with other questions to find out the state of play of this reflection and its results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u18	Minister, on 24 April 2013 the Rana Plaza, an 8-storey building in Savar, in the suburbs of Dhaka, Bangladesh, housed 6 textile factories, causing the death of 1,138 workers and wounding more than 2,000 of the approximately 5,000 employed. This is the most serious accident in the textile industry. In June 2014, the Human Rights Council, at the initiative of Ecuador and South Africa, established a United Nations working group to develop an international treaty on the respect of human rights by multinationals. During the last session, which took place in October 2017 in Geneva, the content of such a document was discussed in the wake of the French law on the duty of vigilance. More than 900 civil society organizations around the world, grouped within the Treaty Alliance, support this process. In Belgium, in July 2017, our Assembly unanimously adopted a motion for a resolution calling for public authorities and public undertakings to consider the use of clothing that complies with the principles of the Agreement on Fire Safety and Building Safety in Bangladesh and, more broadly, for a comprehensive reflection at all levels on fair trade and the sustainability of the textile sector. Minister, is there any reflection within your department on the sustainability – targeted by international standards – of clothing purchased by Defence? Do standards regulate contracts entered into by Defence? Finally, what are the countries of origin of the uniforms worn by our army?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u19	Mrs Grovonius, the Public Procurement Division of the DGMR includes in the special specifications a paragraph on the specific provisions applicable to public procurement and compliance with social legislation, in particular with regard to child labour. At the time of performance of the contract, the contractor must undertake to apply the binding rules laid down in the eight core conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO) and to enforce them by its contractors or subcontractors. The successful tenderer must also provide the contracting authority with the opportunity to consult its registers establishing its various contractors, subsidiaries and subcontractors in relation to the goods or services purchased. In the event of a breach of the eight basic ILO conventions or of one of them, the contracting authority reserves the right to exclude the tenderer at any time from the procedure or the successful tenderer, if the contract is already under way. The System Division has begun a study to take into account in future purchases the international standards of sustainable textile protection (SteP) and the International Association for Research and Testing in the Field of Textile and Leather Ecology (OEKO-TEX). Thus, the next request for T-shirts, scheduled for 2019, will take into account the criteria and standards that this method imposes. The countries of origin of the current uniforms are Austria (Teksport), Germany (W+R) Great Britain (Survitec) the Netherlands (CleanLease) and Belgium (Initial) for personal protective equipment. For combat outfits, the country is Germany (Haix) and Belgium with Seyntex, Sioen and Beernaert. For the city or gala outfits of the Defence personnel, the countries of origin of the outfits are France (Balsan) the Netherlands (Bissa) Portugal (Torfal) and Belgium (Seyntex). These firms have manufacturing sites located abroad. For example, Teksport manufactures its equipment in a factory in one of the countries of the former Yugoslavia, Macedonia. W+R manufactures its equipment in Germany and the Czech Republic. Initial has its equipment made in the Netherlands but also in Belgium, Portugal, Hungary and Tunisia. Belgian firms Sioen and Seyntex have production sites in Asia, Bangladesh and Burma, and both have invested in all new facilities that are run by Belgian management teams. The French company Balsan produces articles in a factory in Morocco. The German company Haix manufactures its shoes at locations in Germany but also in Croatia. As you can see, my answer is very detailed. It must prove that for us, too, this issue is very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u20	Mr Minister, this answer is much more detailed than the one you provided to my colleague for his previous question. To respond with such a high level of detail as this attests to a form of follow-up and interest in this issue, with respect to contracts already awarded. I understand that for future orders, you will add additional considerations in connection with international labels. That's a very good thing. The work is going on, it's fine. Perhaps it is still possible to improve the situation in the future. We'll keep an eye on what's going on. I will not fail to return to you with other elements later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u21	Mr. Minister, on 1 May 2017, the Institute for Veterans was dissolved and the War Heritage Institute was established. On 8 December, as a supervisory minister of the WHI, you decided that only the active staff of the former Veterans Institute could join DKV's hospitalisation insurance from 1 January. This means that all pensioners of the former institute cannot fit in with the collective insurance of DKV. In order to maintain their hospitalisation insurance at AG Insurance, they had to switch to an individual insurance, which increases the cost from 826 euros to 1 284 euros in 2018. Only CM still takes out insurance with 64-plussers but not with the same conditions as AG Insurance. The decision will make it very difficult for many pensioners who have provided very important services for our country to be able to subscribe to proper hospitalisation insurance. Mr Minister, why did you decide that only the active staff of the institute should be associated with DKV's collective hospitalisation insurance? How did that decision come about? What elements have you considered in this regard? Secondly, can you provide more information on the timeline of the decisions taken? The retired members of the institute were not informed until 11 December that they could no longer join the collective hospitalisation insurance scheme from 1 January.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u22	Mrs. Van Hoof, I can reassure you. On 8 March 2018, the War Heritage Institute sent the retired employees of the former institute a letter confirming that they could join the collective hospitalisation of DKV through the social service of Defense. This was possible without interruption of the insurance they had at AG Insurance until 31 December 2017. The annual premium for 65 to 69 year olds is EUR 385.68. This for 70-plussers is 517.44 euros. As you will see, these amounts are significantly lower than those which they would have to pay individually. In this way, they enjoy the same benefits for the pensioners of Defence. Initially, it was not foreseen that retired employees of the former IV-NIOO could join Defence's collective hospitalisation insurance. However, at the request of a number of retired employees of the IV-NIOO, the possibility of giving them access to DKV's collective hospitalisation insurance was examined. The latter gave its agreement on 15 February 2018, allowing the WHI to send the aforementioned letter on 8 March 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reassuring reply. You probably received the letters, just like I did. I'm glad you made that adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u24	Mrs. Pas is absent. Her questions 25350 and 25353 expired. Question No 25460 by Mr Michel de Lamotte is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u25	Mr President, Minister, since the meeting of the Military Purchases Committee on 30 January, and despite an in-depth exchange of views on the subject in the Defence Committee on 28 March, the acquisition of the privileged drones by Defence has still not been approved by the government. The file has therefore been blocked and on hold for more than three months. Can you explain to us what justifies this blockage of government? What is planned for the short and medium term? When does the government intend to make a decision on this? This brings me to my second question, which supplements the first. Mr Minister, like others, including – it seems – within the government, I continue to wonder about the proposed procedure (negotiated without publicity), about the option favoured by the Defence and presented as unavoidable (the US drone SkyGuardian by General Atomics), about the desire to be able to arm the surveillance drones that we need to acquire at a later date, about the refusal to consider other options pending the finalization of the European drone project, in particular the leasing of another aircraft proposed by Airbus and chosen by Germany. On each of these fundamental questions, I still expect clear answers from you. I would like to draw your attention here to the fact that they are not only put forward by opposition parliamentarians, but also by experts in the field of drones, within companies specialised in the field or within the defence itself. This is the case for retired colonel Richard Marchal, a four-year project officer for the B-Hunter drone and first chief of corps of the UAV unit. He does not hide his questions and concerns. To such an extent that, after writing to the MR ministers of this government, he has now decided to do the same to several parliamentarians who are members of our committee. He has thus sent us a series of questions which I think are entirely relevant and which I believe require clear answers from you. I'll list them for you. Do we really want a armable drone, which means fast, heavy and expensive? Are we ready to decide now on the principle of armaments with the changes that this implies in strategic and military terms? If this is not the case, is it possible to consider a MANE drone for ISTAR that is cheaper, less heavy and slower, but better for ISTAR missions? How is the single source, which is very weakly transparent and runs counter to the principles of public procurement legislation, justified? Is there a detailed specification? What will be Belgium's degree of autonomy from the United States in terms of sovereignty, system maintenance, employment and armaments? What is the situation in this respect in countries that have acquired Reapers MQ-9, which are similar to SkyGuardian? What about certification for flights in Belgium, taking into account population density and distribution? What would be the flight possibilities in Belgium, taking into account the limitations and constraints of its airspace? To what extent does the choice of an American system facilitate or complicate the future development of a European MALE drone (transfer of know-how, licenses, etc.).( )? What is the logistics support system that General Atomics intends to set up:turnaround time, cost impact, operational readiness, etc.- Is that what you're saying? How is the estimated current cost of EUR 226 million justified, compared to the initial estimated EUR 180 million? What does this amount include for supplies and services? What would remain to be acquired in order to have complete systems and what would be the cost of simulators, training, maintenance contracts, vehicle system integration, tactical communications, etc.- Is that what you're saying? How can we justify, when we see the Defence Acquisition Plan, that four future European systems would cost less when there are development costs? They are budgeted at 310 million euros, and the two so-called off-the-shelf systems, which would be acquired today, are estimated at 226 million! How do you justify that these American systems, which would be available from 2024 onwards, cost more than four future European systems that still need to be developed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u26	Minister, I would like to remind you that in your strategic vision for Defence, you had planned the acquisition of four MALE-type drones. The purchase was to take place in two stages, as indicated in the Military Purchases Committee, in which we had participated. The first step was to be immediate and should cover two aircraft already available. The second concerned two other devices under development. Can you tell us where this purchase record is? Have there been any discussions within the government to decide on the possibility of arming these drones? Is a more comprehensive reflection on the subject involving our Assembly envisaged? Indeed, the potential acquisition of such weapons will obviously have a certain impact on the way in which our country is waging war. Finally, what will be the potential impact for the Belgian industry of such an acquisition? Are new European projects, particularly under the European Defence Fund, making progress in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u27	Gentlemen, first of all, I would like to point out that Mr. Richard Marchal is in fact a former colonel, but he is primarily an associate partner of the OIP Sensor Systems company. This firm supports one of the candidates of the Israeli firm Elbit. It does not therefore seem to me to be unusual for Mr Marchal to defend Elbit's product. What amazes me a little bit is that this is not the first time you have followed such a speech. What matters to me is not the personal opinion of a staff member of one of the firms who are candidates for the supply of equipment, but rather the strategic vision of Defence. It is anticipated that these aircraft will carry out reconnaissance missions in order to provide command with the necessary perception of the tactical situation in order to increase the security and effectiveness of operations on the ground. These devices will also be able to identify and mark targets for kinetic precision interventions. In addition, these aircraft may subsequently be equipped to carry out armed operations, inter alia, to provide rapid and accurate air support for the protection of ground troops. However, as I have already mentioned here at least five times, the acquisition of the equipment necessary for such armed interventions will require a new government decision. In order to meet operational needs, Defence is opting for a system that can be implemented flexibly thanks to its speed, autonomy, endurance and port capacity. In this case, Defence followed the legislation applicable to this case, i.e. the government-to-government contract. As part of the Defence market analysis, a request for information questionnaire was sent to the various candidates. The questionnaire consisted of a list of 36 questions covering eight different areas and four operational scenarios. After consultation with the Office of Defense Cooperation (ODC), i.e. representatives of the U.S. government, no system implementation restrictions were communicated to us. For all systems, be they American or Israeli, the supply chain is highly dependent on the original equipment manufacturers (OEM), who must follow the directives of their respective governments. The three systems considered are all certified. The constraints referred to in the questions allow us, in the long term, to obtain the certificate of airworthiness, not only military, but also civilian, i.e. the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). It is important that the costs associated with this civilian and military certification can be shared with partners on the same path as we do. As part of the English MQ-9B programme, delivery of the first aircraft to be used for the finalisation of certification tests for flight in non-segregated airspace in Europe and initial crew training will take place in the course of 2021. The Royal Air Force also plans to be initial operational capable (IOC) in mid-2023 and full operational capable (FOC) in 2025. This phase of MALE capacity acquisition is not an intermediate solution because a European MALE has yet to be designed, developed, produced and put into service. As part of the strategic vision, a first phase is planned, for the acquisition of two systems, for an amount of 180 million euros constant 2015. The second phase, for an amount of 310 million euros constant 2015, is planned for the acquisition of the four additional systems. Again, a small lesson on current and constant euros: the amount of 180 million is expressed in constant euros 2015, while the amount of 226 million euros is expressed in current euros, which means that the two amounts are identical. This latter amount includes the provision not only of two MALE RPAS systems each consisting of two aircraft, but also of a control station and communication elements necessary for their implementation. It also includes initial logistical support, initial training of operators and support staff and the provision of a simulator. The aim is for the system to be maintained in Belgium. More importantly, the cost of maintenance activity is the transfer of the technologies associated with maintenance, an area where Belgium cannot afford to remain. The purchase of the MALE drones by the Defense then opens doors for the Belgian industry. The European Defence Fund will be rather interesting for the development and production of EuroMALE, starting in 2025, with four systems rather than two. As stated in the strategic mission, Belgium will contribute to the purchase of these four systems.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answer. Having said that, I have the impression that you did not answer the basic question I asked you: why is there a government blockage?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u29	The file is ready and a decision has to be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u30	He's been ready for a long time. Indeed, a decision should have already been taken in January. It must therefore be noted that there is a blockage at the level of government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u31	Those are your words!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u32	It is also the facts since we have been waiting for a decision from the government for six months! When you go to the Military Purchases Commission, you expect the government to be seized in the next few days. In fact, it was seized and the file was not approved. So you didn't answer me about the rest of my questions. I take note that the colonel in question would be involved in supporting another candidate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u33	Not "would be"; he's involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u34	Minister, if you interrupt me every time I begin an intervention, we will not get out of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u35	Mr Dallemagne, please continue your speech. That being said, when we assume wrong things, it makes sense for the minister to be able to correct the shot. So, Minister, if you will allow Mr Dallemagne to finish his reply, you will then have the floor. Anyway, Mr. Dallemagne will have the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u36	Minister, let's stay calm. I'm still free to say anything. This also applies to Mr. President... I'm going on. This officer would be involved in supporting another candidate. However, you do not mind asking Lokheed Martin for his opinion on F-16 and F-35, in which this company defends its interests. We have heard his representatives in the Defence Committee. For my part, I think the questions asked are interesting. They should be read in the light of the information you provide. In your own words, these drones can be equipped for armed operations. You consider that this will be achieved only by a decision of the government. I vehemently dispute this position that you take on a political level. In my view, this requires an in-depth debate on the types of intervention that Defence will be called upon to carry out using equipment that can reach targets without exposing military personnel. Such a method significantly alters the way we wage war. In addition, this project was not included in Defence's strategic vision. I'm not saying I'm against it...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u37	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u38	Yes, since it appears in the chapter "Capacity of surveillance of a territory". Even today, you have insisted on the identification missions carried out by drones. But we are no longer on this ground; these are actually attack missions. Hence the need for an in-depth political debate. A priori, I am not opposed to it. I simply ask that this discussion be organized and not confined to government. The political, strategic and budgetary implications are obviously very important, since these drones are much more expensive. There is also the question of our dependence on the United States, as these devices have not been developed in Europe. In short, there will be many consequences. In this way, I believe that our ability to develop European drones more quickly will be affected, since we can satisfy ourselves with American aircraft. In times running, this option does not seem particularly intelligent to me. For example, the Germans made a different decision via the leasing of drones at Airbus rather than the acquisition of U.S. drones. For me, this remains a central problem. I don't know if that's what's bothering the government. This deserves a political debate, which I call for, on the type of weapons we need today, given the strategic context and the imperative need to speed up the construction of a European defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u39	Minister, for my part, I am also in favour of a comprehensive reflection on the subject in this House. And as far as my last question is concerned, you reassured me of the potential impact of such acquisitions on the Belgian industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u40	Mr Minister, I see that my question, which was tabled three months ago, is quite relevant, since Le Soir is making it its "one" today. In recent years, it has been noted that electoral processes in several Western countries are increasingly being targeted by various types of cyberattacks from Russia. Disinformation operations on social networks, the dissemination of fake news, the hacking of electoral data, the sending of viruses into databases and election-related computer systems are, it seems, becoming commonplace and increasingly aggressive and sophisticated. This was seen in the last presidential elections in the United States, in Brexit, some Spanish Members also refer to the referendum that took place in Catalonia, or in some elections in France, and even more recently in the Italian parliamentary elections, where some Italian officials were moved by Russian interference. Each time, these attacks aim to destabilize Western democracies as much as possible and to favour the most extremist, populist, xenophobic and anti-European and anti-NATO parties. Mr Minister, how do Belgium and the European Union react to this disturbing information, which is ever more clear proof of Russia's aggressive actions against Western democracies? What are we doing collectively to make Moscow understand that we no longer tolerate these destabilizing strategies? What are we putting in place to better defend ourselves against these cyber attacks? How can we prevent Moscow from favouring certain political parties and destabilising our European Union? According to some information, the SGRS (the General Intelligence and Security Service) would be very worried about possible Russian manipulations in the forthcoming elections in Belgium: do you confirm this? According to this information, the SGRS is now also seriously handicapped by lack of resources, serious disorganization and legal bases that would not be adequate to combat this type of manipulation. Are you also aware of such Russian actions specifically with regard to Belgium and specifically with regard to the forthcoming elections? What measures does the government intend to take in this regard? Do the SGRS and the Belgian Cyber Security Centre have specific information on this subject? Are they implementing specific measures to address these particular threats?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u41	Mr Dallemagne, in November 2017, the SGRS has already drawn attention to the risk of misinformation actions by the Russian Federation. As in recent elections in European and non-European countries, we can expect direct or indirect attempts to influence the course of elections in our country. Such operations are likely to succeed only if they are unexpected. Strategic communication and appropriate and consistent cyber protection combined with vigorous actions where the facts are properly framed and quickly made public by the authorities will prevent the Russian Federation from taking advantage of them. Rather, it is an interdepartmental and interdepartmental responsibility for which the SGRS stands ready to highlight Russian activities and make available its cyber capability in support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u42	Thank you, Minister. I understand you're expecting direct attacks. It is extremely disturbing for a permanent member of the Security Council to systematically attempt to attack us. This shows how much the field of threats has moved significantly on the ground of cyber-type attacks. This threatens not only our businesses, but also our democracies. It can be seen how these attacks have destabilized some countries. The full extent of the truth about some of the attacks that may have taken place is not yet known. You tell us that an interdepartmental strategy is in place and that you are preparing. I welcome this very strong awareness, this preparation. You don't talk much about the political messages you send to Russia. Of course, it is a matter of trying to defend ourselves, but we may not have the same level of sophistication, armament and defence as they do. I also believe that it is very important, politically speaking, to regard this as totally unacceptable. This, first and foremost, motivates a political reaction. This concerns us and the other European countries, all of which are at risk. Political coordination at European level, possibly with a sanction system, should be established. These are truly extremely hostile acts, and I do not know whether they should be described as acts of war, which are ultimately far more effective than other types of attacks in order to destabilize and weaken us and to change our political systems in ways that we do not want.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u43	Mr Dallemagne, we agree. It's not just about the cyber threat, which is a threat that we can try to control. There is another rather hybrid threat, in connection with influence. It's much more difficult because you have to distinguish between false messages and real ones. You know that we have already suffered such attacks from the Russians. I remember, two years ago, coming here to explain that, in fact, messages spread by them were completely false. Recognition of this phenomenon is very important. If we know that we can expect such attacks, precautions must be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u44	Minister, you're right. These are sometimes very difficult attacks to recognize. We learn, for example, that the American black community has been manipulated. One gradually learns the extent of manipulations. These are very insidious manipulations aimed at changing the visions, the behaviors of a society as a whole. It's complex, but it's central to the future of our societies. What worries me is that I hear that the SGRS is not sufficiently equipped or organized, and that it does not have the legal basis to act, in any case, according to information published in Today's Evening, on certain developments that should take place at the SGRS, and on some necessary resources. I even hear that you are called upon to deal with these issues. I imagine it's mobilising you. In any case, I hope you will be able to reassure those responsible quickly on these serious issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u45	As the minister is only available until 12:30 p.m., I would ask you to be relatively concise both in the questions and in the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u46	Minister, in June 2017, the Military Purchases Commission gave a positive opinion on the issue of replacing the interarm motorized capability of the Earth Component (the Camo program, sometimes also known as Scorpion). This is an important issue, as we are talking about the acquisition of 477 armoured vehicles worth €1,112,000,000. In contrast to the calls for tenders organised for several other acquisition files, the government has here preferred to sign a strategic capacitar partnership with France for the joint development and acquisition of these vehicles (training, logistical support, training, upgrades, doctrine, etc.).). The Earth Component obviously needs new armoured vehicles, but since June 2017, new information has come to us and leads me to ask you again about certain aspects of the file. As a result, I was able to read some of the data regarding the level of protection for the future Griffon and Jaguar tanks of the Scorpion program. In this way, it appears that they will have a shield to withstand 14.5 mm machine gun fire as much as possible. However, it also seems that the armoured vehicles in this category used and sold by Russia are now equipped not with 14.5 mm machine guns but with 30 mm guns. The median armoured vehicles of most other European countries would now be able to withstand the firing of these 30 mm guns – which would not be the case for ours – either in their original form or by the addition of a shielding kit. Minister, do you confirm this information? If so, is it planned that the Scorpion program tanks will be reinforced to withstand heavy weapon fire, up to a calibre of 30 mm? What does our French partner expect in this regard? If not, is it wise to invest in equipment that would not already offer a satisfactory standard of protection today? Will the weapons on the Camo tanks be sufficient to ensure the safety of the soldiers on board? Will Belgian units be able to participate fully in joint operations with our NATO or European Union allies, while most other European countries seem to have better protected vehicles than our own? What about the interoperability of our forces?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u47	Mr Dallemagne, it is not right to say that the armoured median vehicles of most other European countries would now be able to withstand the firing of 30 mm guns, either in their original form or by the addition of a shielding kit. In Europe, there is a wide variety of old and new generation median armoured vehicles, some of which are optimized for protection and others for mobility and/or firepower. For this reason, NATO imposes minimum criteria to be met. NATO defines the passive level of protection of armoured vehicles using a standard called STANAG 4569. The levels of protection are defined from 1, which is the lowest, up to 6, the highest, for ballistic projectiles, mines and improvised explosive devices. NATO also links the passive level of protection to the characteristics of infantry battalions, i.e., light, median or heavy. This level should be foreseen by the Member States. This document is called capacity quotas and capacity statements. For example, NATO is asking Belgium for mid-range battalions. The minimum level of passive protection for armoured vehicles of this type of battalions is 3 for ballistic projectiles and 2 for mines and improvised explosive devices. The level of protection for Camo tanks exceeds these requirements. According to official information from the French Ministry of Armed Forces, it appears that Scorpion vehicles will be protected in accordance with NATO's highest standards for ballistic protection, mine protection and protection against improvised explosive devices. The exact level of passive protection is classified and cannot be disclosed, following non-disclosure agreements with France. It is certain, however, that this level of protection will be higher than that of the current combat vehicles of the Earth Component. Future Belgian vehicles which would be involved in joint operations with our NATO or European Union allies would thus have the same level of protection and weapons as French vehicles, and would therefore be interoperable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u48	Minister, you don't answer completely, or you're bypassing the question. My question was the following. We have mid-level vehicles, equipped with a shield that I am told is resistant to 14.5 mm caliber fire. On the other hand, on the Russian side, the same median level has just been increased. The weapons on the other side have just been modified to attack these shields and to make sure that our vehicles are in a delicate position on a battlefield. We couldn't use them in front of this type of vehicle. So in relation to that question, I'm... You tell me that the level of protection has improved; that is good news. On the other hand, you do not tell me whether it is good enough in relation to a threat that itself has developed in front of it. It's just to understand...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u49	I told you that what NATO is asking for is defined by STANAG. We are here in the demands of NATO. NATO's estimate of the threat is answered in a way that follows the rules, or even a little more. We can always say that we need the highest level everywhere, but then we have to ask ourselves what the use of vehicles will be and what the deployment will be. We have to ask ourselves what the threat is. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u50	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u51	They are median vehicles, which means that they will be able to meet all the mid-level requirements, not the heavy level. That's not what we planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u52	Yes. Look, I'm going to go into more detail, because what I'm told is that vehicles in this category, used by the Russians, have just been equipped with 30 mm machine guns. In order not to have a discussion that is of no interest, I will continue my research and, if necessary, I will come back with additional questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u53	Mr President, Minister, in the context of the discussion on the replacement of our F-16s, it has been mentioned here several times that our country uses its fighter planes in different ways. One of those ways is guarding our airspace. Since 1 January 2017, there has been a cooperation with the Benelux countries which amounts to a turn role between Belgium and the Netherlands. Those countries keep two devices ready for possible QRA calls in turn for quick reaction alert over Belgium, Luxembourg or the Netherlands. Thanks to this agreement, both air forces save resources and pilots that they can deploy elsewhere. Minister, I have the following questions for you. Can you tell me what the distribution of roles is and what it will be like in the near future? How many times should QRA enter into force in 2017 and 2018 until today? What was the nature of the incidents? In how many cases, as in January 2018, were involved in the interception of Russian military aircraft? How many times was a QRA in Belgian airspace? How many Belgian or Dutch fighter planes were deployed for this purpose? How many times was there a QRA in the Dutch or Luxembourg airspace? Have there been any cases where there was a terrorist threat? Finally, how many pilots do Belgium and the Netherlands use for permanence on their respective bases? Can you also tell me how much this division of roles saves us every year?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u54	Mr President, Mr Yüksel, the role of QRA is currently guaranteed by Belgium until 13 September 2018, on the basis of the variety you mentioned. After that, the Netherlands will take over this role for four months, according to the same formula, with the aircraft units of Volkel and Leeuwarden. In 2017, the Benelux QRA devices were activated nine times in what is called an Alpha scramble. A loss of radio communication was the basis of all incidents. In 2017, no interception of a Russian military aircraft was carried out by the QRA-Benelux. In 2018, the Benelux QRA devices were activated six times with an Alpha scramble. The basis for this year was four times a loss of radio communication, a case of wrong selection of the transponder code and a case of a non-coordinated flight through military airspace. In 2018, therefore, two Russian military aircraft were intercepted and this took place on 15 January 2018. In 2017, five of the nine Alpha scrambles gave rise to an effective intervention of F-16s in the Benelux airspace. In 2018 this was the case for three of the six Alpha scrambles. In the other cases the Alpha scramble was called off before the aircraft had taken off. In 2017, QRA operated four times in Belgian airspace. The assignment was carried out three times by the Belgian QRA and once by the Dutch QRA. In 2018, QRA operated only once in Belgian airspace. This intervention was carried out by a Belgian QRA. In 2017, QRA once operated in Dutch airspace. This assignment was carried out by Dutch fighter planes. In 2018, QRA operated twice in Dutch airspace. Both missions were carried out by Belgian fighter planes. The Benelux QRA never flew into Luxembourg airspace in 2017 and 2018. In 2018, however, there was a case where there was a potential terrorist threat. The facts contradicted this after all. It was ultimately a case of wrong selection of the transponder code by the pilot. Both in the Netherlands and Belgium, the QRA stand-by is carried out by means of a 24-hour shift, each using two devices. Both the Netherlands and Belgium deploy two pilots per 24-hour shift on standby. The distribution of roles represents an annual saving of around €250,000 in the form of unpaid premiums and benefits outside normal hours of work for pilots, crew, firefighters and ground staff during the half of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u56	Minister, the European Commission has presented an action plan to improve the mobility of troops and military equipment on the European continent. The inadequacy of infrastructure results from the fact that in recent years only civil criteria have been taken into account in the various constructions. In this context, the Commission's action plan, which is perfectly in line with the strategy of a defence Europe, sets out a series of operational measures to overcome physical, procedural and regulatory obstacles to military mobility. The aim of the Action Plan is not only to remove regulatory barriers to cross-border military movements but also to adapt road and rail infrastructure to the transport of military equipment. Another aspect of this action plan is the simplification of customs formalities for military operations and the harmonisation of rules relating to the transport of dangerous goods in the military field. To date, the action plan has yet to be approved by the Member States. Mr Minister, has Belgium already taken a position on this action plan? Will Belgian Defence be part of it? What will be the financial burden of implementing this action plan for Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u57	Mr President, thank you for bringing together these questions, which indeed have the same subject. Minister, I asked a question in this committee on 28 February about military mobility in Europe and the creation of a possible Schengen military area. Lieutenant General Jacobs, a commander of the German Army and Deputy Commander of the German Army, spoke about this at a NATO parliamentary meeting between 19 and 21 February. He was able to tell us that sometimes Kafkaian conditions occur at border crossings. For example, a military convoy that has to cross from Poland to Lithuania takes a long time. On 28 February, you replied that it is always good to look into your own heart, and you mentioned German regulations. You also mentioned an action plan that was in preparation within the European Commission and was due to be presented on 22 March. Mr Chabot has already referred to it. We understand that this action plan has indeed been presented in the meantime. What specific recommendations are made? What action should the Member States take? What action can our country take in this respect? You also replied that the Netherlands is in charge of the PESCO mobility project, of which Belgium is a member. What is the state of play on this matter? Has our government taken a formal position on the action plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the PESCO "Military Mobility" project coordinated by the Netherlands is one of the projects approved at the end of 2017 in which 25 Member States are involved. This plan to improve mobility within and outside the European Union was presented at the Political and Security Committee meeting on 11 April 2018 and was approved by the Member States. Belgium is taking part and has already started preparations in this regard. This project exceeds Defence's competencies and requires a comprehensive government approach, interdepartmental coordination is provided by the FPS Foreign Affairs. Belgian Defence will contribute both nationally and internationally. On the one hand, it will actively participate in future projects of the European Defense Agency (EDA), such as the harmonisation and simplification of customs formalities or the reduction of regulatory barriers to cross-border military movements. On the other hand, it will strengthen the crisis centre by providing a person within a specific interdepartmental unit. As far as infrastructure policy is concerned, the necessary investments will be in the hands of a department of the Commission, namely DG MOVE. As a first step, the EU budget can be used to optimise, modernise or adapt the trans-European transport network. Everything will be applied with full respect for the sovereignty of the Member States in their national territory and for national decision-making processes. The work of the EDA ad hoc working group Cross Border Mobility Transportation resulted in a military mobility roadmap that was translated into the Action Plan Military Mobility (APMM), which was distributed on 4 April 2018. This leads me to think that it would not be European if there were no impossible abbreviation involved. The guidelines, the guiding principles, for a new approach to military mobility are based on four aspects, namely legal aspects, customs formalities, military needs including military infrastructure standards and cross-border movement consents including diplomatic clearances. A number of projects will have to be launched both at the level of the European institutions and at Member State level to deal with these aspects. The PESCO project in which the Netherlands is in charge and in which Belgium participates had the second coordination meeting on 19 April 2018. The aim of this coordination was to reach an agreement on the content and design of a military mobility pledge, or a mobility promise, with which the participating countries undertake to simplify the movements of military formations on the European continent. In order to promote coherence between the EU and NATO, a similar text is presented in both organisations. The text should be approved by the Heads of Government at the EU Council meeting in June, while the NATO text should be the subject of the joint EU-NATO declaration following the Brussels NATO summit in July. Belgium plays an important role in military mobility, mainly because our ports are part of the infrastructure that allows the transit of US and Canadian military units. Contacts are currently being identified in the various departments concerned to further develop this. The last meeting on military mobility at federal level took place last week, on 4 June, and was chaired by the government crisis coordination centre. The next meeting of this group was scheduled for 16 July. So we're gonna move on as we should.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which is quite complete. My question dates back to February and a lot has happened since then. There will also be a lot on the agenda for the next few weeks. It is also important that we take the lead in ensuring that mobility is as flexible as possible within Europe as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u61	Minister, not so long ago a legislative proposal was adopted which extended local political rights. Military people have already been able to do so and can now sit in a simpler way as a city council member or ships. In the rules on working time, we read in Chapter 17 Leaves on the political leave of military personnel: "They must at all times refrain from wearing the military uniform and mention their military capacity in the context of their political activities. Nevertheless, they may mention their profession as listed in the National Register." That phrase is very clear to me. It seems to me that they are not allowed to wear their uniform if they are engaged in a political activity, and that they are allowed to report their profession, military, as recorded in the National Register. I hear that managers say that they are not allowed to do so, referring to the phrase in the regulations of the military. I'd like to be clear with you. In their communication to the outside world, can soldiers mention that they are military?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u62	Mr Buysrogge, the elements you are referring to in your oral question are laid down in Article 172 (3) of the Act of 28 February 2007 establishing the status of the military and candidate soldiers of the armed forces. Article 172 provides that the military may make an effective mention of his profession, as recorded in the National Register. In short, if he stands up for municipal or provincial elections and therefore has not yet been elected, he may state that he is military, since his profession as such is included in the National Register of Natural Persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u63	Thank you for the clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u64	Minister, at the beginning of May, the Dutch Secretary of State for Defence gave Barbara Visser additional information on the start-up of new projects. The purchase of 12 Dutch-Belgian mine-fighting vessels was also discussed. In the meantime, we know that two weeks ago the Memorandum of Understanding was signed by both countries, but the request for proposal has not yet been sent. However, it is the ambition to sign a contract by the end of this year. I would therefore like to have an answer to the following questions. What is the status of this file? When will the request for proposal be sent out? When will the results be assessed and how will the evaluation proceed? Do we not risk rushing into such an important purchase as there are only six or seven months left until the end of the year? What further steps are being taken in the assessment?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u65	Mr Top, the application for a prior agreement for the replacement programme of the mine-fighting vessels was submitted to the Parliamentary Commission for Army Purchases and Sales and was subsequently approved by the Government in January 2018. The selection procedure started at the beginning of February and is now being completed. In the meantime, a memorandum of understanding was signed with my Dutch colleague on 8 June last. The specifications will soon be sent to the selected candidates. Candidates will then be given a few months to submit a tender. Following the opening of the tenders provided for in September, they shall be evaluated in accordance with the legislation on public procurement on the basis of the request for proposal. All steps set out in the Public Procurement Act will be followed closely, both in terms of content and timing. After evaluation of the tenders and the application for a best and final offer, the award fee dossier shall be prepared and delivered to the Council of Ministers after consulting the competent authorities for an award decision. Only after that decision and official acquaintance by all candidates will the contract be concluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. So I still assume that it is the government's ambition to decide by the end of the year, as was announced earlier. Therefore, I would like to stick to my observation that there is a tight timing that can hopefully be respected and that there is enough time in the course of the procedure for a thorough and thorough evaluation of the various offers or of the best and final offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u67	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the follow-up of the military in return for a mission. It turns out that the follow-up currently planned by the Defence is inadequate, as I also point out in a text I have recently tabled in this House. During a mission, our members are likely to be exposed to events that are at least traumatic. Currently, Defence uses psychologists to accompany members in post-traumatic shock situations during the mission to ensure that the military's mind remains operational. However, post-mission monitoring of military personnel is sometimes insufficient. Currently, a member is only followed by a psychologist when he or she is already suffering from post-traumatic disorders. There is no preventive follow-up with our military personnel returning from mission. In addition, it would appear that it is difficult for a member to have his or her problem recognized as an accident on duty for reimbursement or redress. Minister, what do you intend to put in place as a result of this finding of lack of preventive follow-up with our military personnel returning from operations? Is there any agreement with the military unions on this matter? Do you intend to modify the procedure to make it easier for members who are victims of post-traumatic disorders to obtain redress?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u68	Mr. President, Minister, as a corollary to their challenging missions, which often force them to experience death and unbearable situations, more and more military personnel, whether active or veteran, experience post-traumatic stress, depression or burn out. It is estimated that 20% of our veterans develop work-related disorders, but this may be undervalued due to undeclared cases. As a result of the ever-increasing uncertainty, particularly related to the suddenly changing assignment, and the ever-renewed brutality of the theatres of operation, this phenomenon tends to increase. While it undermines the military themselves, post-traumatic stress and its derivatives also affect their families and even their colleagues. This phenomenon is therefore much broader than what is often presented. Minister, do you have any specific figures for active members who would develop traumatic or post-traumatic disorders? How does the army actually accompany these men and women? More broadly, what can public authorities do to provide psychological support to the military?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u69	Colleagues, it is wrong to say that our soldiers returning from the theatre of operations do not benefit from psychosocial follow-up. Our military personnel participating in operations both abroad and in the national territory benefit from both psychosocial and medical follow-up, both preventive and curative. In addition, such follow-up shall take place prior to and during and after the mission's departure. Every member likely to be operationally engaged is reviewed annually by the occupational physician prevention advisor. The operational fitness of the member is assessed at both the medical, social and psychological levels. This is the level of primary prevention. During missions, the so-called secondary prevention phase, the military is supported in the broader context of operational medical support. In the particular case of a critical incident or after a potentially traumatic situation in Belgium or in operation, specific preventive support shall also be provided. If necessary, depending on the type of mission, a decompression airlock can be arranged before returning to Belgium. Upon completion or return of the mission, each member will be systematically questioned about any symptoms that may indicate mental suffering, affection, etc. In addition, the member can receive free psychotherapeutic support at the Military Hospital Mental Health Centre and consult spontaneously with the occupational physician prevention counsellor or the infectious physician at the Military Hospital Travel Clinic. Defence informs representative unions of the various health and well-being issues in operation during the meetings of the High Consultation Committee on Well-Being. Any member who has suffered physical harm in connection with a service activity may receive monetary compensation in the form of a reparation pension provided that the medical problem in question (physical, mental or mental) is recognized by the Public Sector Pension Service, the Federal Pension Service. A possible change in this procedure does not fall within my jurisdiction but within the competence of the Minister for Pensions. Please be aware that the member concerned may, at any time, make use of the occupational physician prevention adviser, the "Right to Care" service and any medical officer to be accompanied during the administrative process of the Federal Pension Service. Currently, members with post-traumatic stress disorder account for approximately 2.5% of the total number of patients using the mental health centre. There has been no significant increase in the number of members suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder in the past three years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u70	Minister, thank you for your complete answer this time and prepared by your services, who are sharing a whole series of elements in place. My concern is that trade unions have recently made an exit from this issue. I quote them in their statement which draws attention to the fact that "the current organization of care for deployed military personnel is sub-optimal and needs to be improved. It would be above all the follow-up after the operations that would leave something to be desired. At present, follow-up care is minimal or non-existent." I hear your statements about what has been put in place, but there are still some concerns and discontents within the army. This is also the subject of the text which I have tabled, calling for a full evaluation of the procedure and, on the basis of it, for a series of adjustments. I hope that in this committee we can quickly start hearings on this subject and that will be the subject of my request when I have the opportunity to present this text. Unfortunately, I have not yet had the opportunity to do so since other texts were presented in the last committee. I intend to present it in early July, and I hope that hearings can be held quickly to clarify this issue, which remains important to our military.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u71	I would also like to thank the minister for his answers, which clearly describe what is actually being put in place. I never said in my question that there was nothing, but I was asking the question of what was being implemented and you answered it. You did not have the opportunity to answer the question about the number of military personnel involved. Maybe you don't have one yet. I also asked you what the public authorities can do to provide psychological support to the military. Perhaps I should have expanded my question. For me, it is also important that the population as a whole can be a support to its army. I think the military would feel better psychologically if they felt "reintegrated." This can be seen in particular with Vietnam veterans in the United States. Some have had special attitudes. There is obviously no comparison here. But sometimes, and this is a problem, the population does not understand them, or even has questions or rejects them. This is not the case with us at the moment, but we must ensure that this does not happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u72	Question No 25624 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is postponed. Questions Nos 25856, 26027 and 26029 by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u73	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of May 2015, you and your colleague announced the Minister for Mobility to cooperate as closely as possible in the field of air traffic control. By the end of 2015, a full business case would be developed to determine the level of integration for each service offered. Belgocontrol is responsible for the security of civilian airspace and Defence manages military airspace. Although at operational level there is a long tradition of consultation and cooperation between the two organisations, the responsibilities for civil and military services remain strictly separate to date, unlike the situation in different neighbouring countries. Aviation and activities at civil airports are of great economic importance for our country. These represent 1.5 % of GDP and 1.7 % of employment. Optimum management and a clear structure of our airspace can further optimise access to Belgian airports, as can the efficiency of military missions. The use of military airspace by civil aircraft can also partly solve the problem of the balanced distribution of flights to and from Zaventem airport. Today we see that there is rarely or never an aircraft flying over the military airspace around Beauvechain, so that all civilian flights to the south over Tervuren and Huldenberg and even lower over Houffalize go to the east. If military airspace can be used, a fair distribution of civil aircraft in the region in the south of the national airport is possible. What are the results of the business case announced in 2015? What specific business cases have already been introduced on the ground? How many civil aircraft flew through the military airspace around Beauvechain in 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u74	Mr President, Mr Vandenput, the study carried out in 2015 identifies numerous civil-military cooperation opportunities in the areas of air traffic control services and meteorological services for aviation. The letter of 19 May 2017, signed by Minister of Mobility Bellot and myself, lays down the basic arrangements for civil-military cooperation, such as the colocation of the military and civil air traffic control centre on the site of Belgocontrol in Steenokkerzeel from 2019. A framework agreement to further concreteise cooperation is in preparation. The synergies in operational air traffic control services will be further developed in an implementation agreement, including a roadmap to advanced FUA (Flexible Use of Airspace), in accordance with the Belgian Airspace Vision. The final objective is, moreover, to achieve full integration by 2030. The principle of FUA has been applied by our country for several years. Concrete procedures were laid down in the FUA LoA (Letter of Agreement) 2012, which was approved by all parties concerned, namely the Directorate-General for Aviation (DGLV), Defence, Belgocontrol and Maastricht Upper Area Control Center (MUAC). Statistics on the number of flights through the military airspace around Beauvechain have only been available since 1 January 2018. The agreement dates from 2017 and we started measuring in January 2018. I can tell you that between 1 January and 31 May, Beauvechain's ATC received 80 calls from civilian aircraft within the control zone of the base.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u75	Minister, I am pleased to hear that full integration is under way by 2030. Indeed, this cannot be arranged in one or two years. I am also pleased to hear that there have been 80 calls since this year. However, I am convinced that we still have a great deal of work ahead of us in order to organise a fair distribution to the south of Brussels. If military airspace can be flown, the spread will be more equitable for all residents, but if this is not possible or not enough, a part of the population will receive much more civilian flights. It is being worked on and I hope that progress will be made within a few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u76	Mr President, Minister, I was able to read recently in the press that military barracks are again criticized for their old age and lack of maintenance. Defence has decided to outsource massively certain tasks related to the maintenance and cleaning of military quarters. In this context, in 2016, the contracts for the cleaning of military quarters were renewed. However, it would appear that the benefits in most barracks are strongly criticized, in particular, by the trade unions. Since 2017, the Berlaar Plateau comprising the majority of the districts of the province of Antwerp has been the scene of a test case. A benefit monitoring system is now in place and budgets for infrastructure maintenance have been increased by 30 per cent. As a result of these measures, an increase in the quality of benefits would have been observed. This experience highlights, once again, the problem of widespread outsourcing with companies that may be less expensive in the short term, but whose quality of services may be inadequate. On the other hand, it is clear that budgets for infrastructure management need to be reviewed to ensure a satisfactory level of hygiene and safety for all Defence personnel. Minister, since outsourcing clearly does not allow the best value for money to be obtained, would Defence not have to gain from managing its infrastructure itself? This would allow for better control of benefits. What are the current methods of monitoring the performance of these private companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u77	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chabot, the outsourcing of certain activities is not a novelty for Defence. Maintaining the activity of an in-house service or entrusting it to an external partner is a question that has already arisen in the past. Activities such as cleaning or maintenance have been outsourced for several decades. The outsourcing of certain support tasks has become inevitable in order to preserve the core defence business and maintain the focus on military tasks focused on operational engagement. Nevertheless, the overall management of the infrastructure, of which performance monitoring is part, is still carried out by Defence. Until November 2017, the neighbourhood cleaning contract had been awarded in the form of an open tender whereby the contract was awarded to the lowest bidder, in accordance with the Finance Inspectorate's directives, given the level of detail of the prescribed services in the specifications. Since November 2017, as the economic situation in the facility maintenance market has changed and resulted in a significant decline in quality, Defence has decided to gradually renew clean-up contracts in the form of tenders in order to take into account the quality criterion when awarding. This new procurement method allows Defence to obtain the best value for money. This method of procurement is also applied systematically for contracts in new areas of outsourcing. The control of the performance of companies is based on contractual provisions and is carried out by Defence personnel. The method of control consists, on the one hand, of imposing selection criteria at the level of the firm's competence and, on the other hand, of requiring, on a contractual basis, quality levels for the provision of these services. The objectives to be achieved and the remedies in cases where the objectives are not achieved shall be determined in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u78	Minister, thank you. It seems to me that we agree on the importance of the control of benefits by Defence and I hope that it will be beneficial in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u79	Question No 25670 by Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u80	Mr President, Minister, on 25 May, the VRT announced that agents of the ADIV in 2016 had contacts on Syrian territory with elements of the YPG, the Kurdish militia of the PYD Party. The aim was to establish contacts to exchange information. Previously it became known that members of the ADIV had had such contacts with people from the YPG in Iraq. The option was also examined to provide non-lethal material and shooting training. This was done in the period 2016 to early 2017. All this was in Knack Magazine. You weren't aware of these contacts. You were not informed about this until spring 2017. A similar story now pops up about Syria. This is, of course, even more sensitive than possible operations of the ADIV in Iraq. I have four questions for you, Minister. First of all, how long were the missions in Syria? How many agents on the ADIV were involved? Were you informed of this mission beforehand, unlike the operation of the ADIV in Iraq? You had to admit that you were not aware of this. Secondly, there is the involvement of the National Security Council in these contacts in Syria. Is that right? When was this discussed in the National Security Council? Was this sufficiently detailed so that all members of the National Security Council knew what was going on? I would like to look at the document on the basis of which the discussion was held in the National Security Council. Thirdly, in your response to the news from the VRT, you referred to the intelligence steering plan as the basis for the mandate for the ADIV to set up such missions. You mean that such a mission actually falls within that mandate and therefore does not require specific political coverage. Does that intelligence mission plan contain an overview of the guidelines for operational missions? Are there clear agreements with the ADIV summit on how far their decision-making powers or powers are to be extended and from what point should there be political coverage? Finally, were the Committee I or the Advisory Committee informed in advance?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u81	Mr President, Minister, on 25 May 2018, we were able to hear from the media that some of the military forces in Syria have been deployed by the defence forces to discuss the YPG with local fighters. On Radio 1, that Friday morning, you explained that it is effectively about people from the ADIV, the secret intelligence service of the Defense Department, who act within the framework of their intelligence mission plan. I have the following three questions. First of all, can you give me more information on the contours of the mission? What were the purpose and extent of it? Who was contacted on the scene? Secondly, can you explain more about how the mission was organised and reported? Thirdly, can you explain the legal framework within which the operation took place? Does communication in this respect go according to a certain protocol?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u82	Mr President, Minister, the ADIV military service confirmed to the public service that negotiations with Kurdish fighters in northern Syria have been held. Independent sources confirm to the VRT that at least two secret missions continued in Syria in 2016 and that you would rather not be involved in the secret mission. However, the Minister of Defence bears the final political responsibility for military but also for secret missions. Minister, during the public sitting in Parliament and in the media, you have always denied that Syria has been set on the ground. Today you refer to Committee I plenary sessions behind closed doors, of which there are no reports or evidence. That is why I would like to have an answer to the following four questions. Firstly, how exactly did the approval of the mission in question go? You'd rather not be involved in the mission. Would you mind explaining that for me? Secondly, when exactly was the ADIV present on site? With how many persons was the service present? Thirdly, when exactly was the dossier discussed in the National Security Council? When exactly was the matter discussed in the parliamentary committee responsible for Committee I guidance? What documents were submitted? Finally, who is the final political responsibility for such a mission? When exactly were your government partners informed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u83	Mr President, Minister, my questions are in the same direction. According to the press, the SGRS conducted a series of missions on Syrian soil to gather information and establish contacts to ensure the safety of our pilots in the event of a problem during an intervention. However, as other colleagues have said, you have always publicly stated that Belgium does not intervene directly on Syrian soil. These statements therefore ask me. Minister, have you been informed of these missions beforehand? Did you agree to these? What information can you give us about these potential interventions? Did these come within the framework of the resolution as adopted by this House? Have these possible interventions been or will they be considered by the R Committee? I would like a clear and precise answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u84	My question is not in the same direction, Minister. It deals with the internal functioning of the ADIV. In December 2016, you received a letter signed by a Chief Commissioner and seven Commissioners of the ADIV. In this letter, the signatories complain about the internal competitive pressure, misdirection of information, confusing communication with domestic and foreign partners and mistrust between the different departments. It specifically concerned the management of the Counter Intelligence department of the ADIV. The content, causes and consequences of that letter have been discussed several times in our committee, including on 5 July 2017 and in the advisory committee of the Committee I. I asked you a question about this in our committee on 27 November 2017. You replied to me that the Committee I would examine this matter and make recommendations. Minister, has the Committee I already made a number of recommendations to you? If so, which one? Steps have already been taken to improve the functioning of the ADIV.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, I note that, once again, following press releases, either words are being put in my mouth or sources that remain anonymous for the time being, where they are being quoted. The ADIV hasn't confirmed anything. I myself have neither confirmed nor denied any mission. I would like to stress this point. I cannot speak publicly about any individual mission of ADIV or whether it took place or not. Let me be very clear about this. It is important that we have recently seen this in another file, namely that the correct data, the correct sources and the correct information are used. That being said, everything has been said in the press. There has already been a debate on this element, together with the Committee I, here in Parliament, in the committee you set up for this purpose, namely the parliamentary advisory committee for the intelligence services. I will not hide behind it and give you answers, as far as I can. First of all, a distinction has to be made between the operations we have been conducting since 2014 in the framework of the coalition operations Inherent Resolve, and those related to intelligence files. So if a question is asked about boots on the ground, it is for me a question about military operations, which I have always said and continue to say that we have not carried out land operations in Syria. So we didn't have any boots on the ground in Syria. With regard to intelligence operations, I could easily get rid of it by referring to the discussions of the advisory committee, but I will try to clarify this. The General Intelligence and Security Service has as its legal mandate, according to the law of 13 November 1998 on the intelligence services, to collect information about who threatens our people. Of course, this includes the foreign terrorist fighters who are abroad. The ADIV seeks information, analyses it and processes it not only for the protection of our military and operating areas, but also for the protection of our Belgian nationals abroad. In concrete terms, the ADIV contributes to the protection of aid workers and journalists who might be in a conflict zone. It is therefore advisable for the ADIV to establish contacts with parties in a conflict, if there is a risk that Belgian nationals, military or not, could be captured or handed over to one of those parties. This does not at all mean that the ADIV agrees with the views of specific interlocutors or that there are promises attached to them. For the success of ADIV operations and the protection of personnel carrying out such operations, only those who need to be aware of the need to know principle will be informed. In addition, confidentiality is guaranteed by reducing the degree of detail as the echelon increases. So if I said that I would rather not be aware of all the details, that would fit in with that context. Of course I am aware of operations we carry out in connection with the tasks assigned to the ADIV, but I do not think it is necessary for me to be informed of any individual contact with any foreign or even domestic source. That wouldn't be safe either, by the way. I do not need to repeat to you that it was discussed in the committee responsible that the Committee I carried out its statutory audit in the examples cited. The Committee I noted that such operations were carried out within the regulatory framework. It goes without saying that the information of such operations, as it should be, was shared with other security actors, including State Security. These intelligence missions are planned in accordance with the SGRS Intelligence Master Plan. This plan, which I have approved and which has been presented to the National Security Council, is known by the R Committee.This plan determines the priorities of the SGRS and formulates the countries, the regions, the phenomena in which the SGRS must gather information. On this basis, a plan for the collection of information is drawn up. This collection plan lists, among other things, contacts with different actors in a country or region. The Minister must therefore decide on the plans but must not approve any individual contact. Ladies and gentlemen, as always, I am prepared to continue this discussion in the advisory committee, which specifically aims to do so, should you have any further questions. Mr Buysrogge, in 2016, I received the letter to which you refer from the Chief Executive Officer responsible for the CI service of the General Intelligence and Security Service. It contained a number of allegations that asked for further investigation, especially since we had already done a number of things at the ADIV. I asked an institution which depends on Parliament to examine the allegations and to make recommendations on them. The Committee I has taken my question to heart and carried out a thorough examination. On 15 May 2018, a small month ago, the Committee I sent me its report. The findings of the report were discussed yesterday in the advisory committee, so I have to refer you to that. The Committee I has drawn up a dozen topics for improvement, proposing deadlines. They're being studied point by point. I asked the ADIV to submit a plan of action and implementation within the shortest possible period. However, the ADIV did not wait for the recommendations to change and adapt others. In the meantime, for example, tools and techniques are already being developed to improve the flow of information. Accelerated recruitment and other measures were taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u86	Minister, a reply is not easy, because you are avoiding the difficult questions. You're definitely avoiding the debate. When Knack announced a few months ago that the ADIV was present in Iraq, you admitted that the operation took place. Now all of a sudden you don't want to say anything more about that ADIV operation in Syria. That's not consistent. In addition, you say that it was acted correctly and reported. What is it now? Can you tell me about the operation or not? You say no, but on the other hand you state that there was a proper act. It is of two things one: either you answer all, also difficult questions, or you effectively say that you cannot say anything. You cannot say that there has been a correct action without answering the critical questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u87	Mr De Vriendt, I am telling you that I cannot talk about individual operations. I can't. I have also told you that similar operations are controlled by the Committee I. The Committee I exercises a right of control over the various intelligence services, including the ADIV. There's good cooperation there. I say to you, and perhaps you should read it out, that such operations are always carried out within the terms of the law and within the terms of reference. That's what I answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u88	So you're saying that all operations are being handled correctly? Is the Committee I always aware of these operations in advance?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u89	The Committee I is your organisation. It shall have a control function, essentially ex post, unless the services themselves consider it appropriate to inform the Committee I in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u90	There's another problem. You said there's no need for you to be aware of all individual operations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u91	Mr President, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u92	Mr De Vriendt, we are not having a debate here. You just need to give a reply. If you'd like the Minister to add something, that's okay. In that case, you can have the last word afterwards. But this is not an open debate. So I ask you to continue your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u93	However, a debate during a questioning session would not be bad, I believe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u94	Maybe so, but that's not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u95	If the Minister wants to answer the questions I ask, the better. Then I do not think you should block it as chairman either.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u96	May I ask you, Mr De Vriendt, to continue with your reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u97	I'll keep going. Minister, on the one hand you admit that there was an ADIV operation in Iraq a few months ago. You've admitted it. Now you say that there is always proper conduct and reporting, without going into this individual operation. But, you say, and that's problematic, that you don't need to know about these kinds of operations. Well, I'm telling you that you need to be aware of this type of operation. Mr President, the Minister wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u98	Carry on, Mr De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u99	Mr President, I find it very strange that you are stopping the Minister's intervention. This would be a good exchange of ideas and opinions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u100	Mr De Vriendt, once again and for the last time, you will continue your reply. If the Minister wishes to respond to the end of your reply, he may. You'll get the last word anyway. Continue your reply, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u101	You shouldn't say that to me. You should tell the Minister. If the minister wants to answer...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u102	I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u103	Mr President, ask that question or give that remark to the Minister. Minister, you say that you do not need to be aware of such missions. However, such missions must be covered politically. Furthermore, you did not answer my question as to whether the National Security Council was sufficiently informed in advance of such delicate operations. That is a clear question that I have put to you. I also asked for the document to be made available on the basis of which this operation was discussed in the National Security Council. You cannot shirk all the responsibility and refuse any debate about this operation in Syria. In the press, you commented. You said that there was no problem and that there had been proper action. It is therefore not right that Parliament should not be able to hold a debate on this issue. With regard to the information transmission plan as the basis for the ADIV's mandate to set up such missions, I would also like to know to what extent the ADIV has guidelines to launch such delicate operations itself without your prior knowledge as a minister. I find it particularly difficult to debate this. There's a lot being written about it in the press, as well as previous operations, and now there's criticism and there's some tricky questions that you're completely avoiding. Mr President, I will conclude. However, reports in the press over the past few months have shown that the ADIV is a leaked boat. We can't count on our military intelligence. This has proved sufficient in the debates of recent years. We have a hearing next week with the new Chief of the ADIV and we will put him on the schedule to see if all these problems have been resolved. I think your answer is really inadequate. It does not allow us to carry out our parliamentary control role.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u104	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I think it is normal that if something appears in the press, whether it is true or not, Members of Parliament can ask a question. Unlike my predecessor, I am very pleased with the answers you can give. I am also pleased that you confirm that this has also been discussed within the Committee I. As you said, that is our committee. If it has been dealt with there and so there has been control, then I think that is very good. Moreover, I believe that the ADIV should do its job, both here and on the ground, especially when it comes to operations, for example, in order to get a better idea of the possible return of foreign fighters. I think it is extremely important that this happens. I would like to say that, because that is in stark contrast to what Mr De Vriendt said. I think that is a good thing and I trust that the ADIV has done very well. I also believe that you do not have to give your approval for everything that the ADIV does.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u105	Minister, unlike the previous speaker, I am not at all satisfied with your reply. I agree with Mr De Vriendt. You simply did not answer the questions we asked. You've done a very good job avoiding the questions. Your answer shows that there have been effective missions. You refer to the fact that they were submitted to the Committee I and the advisory committee. So there have been missions. I can still understand the answer that you do not need to be aware of all missions or of all the details. However, you also stated that you would rather not take note of the content of these missions, and I think that is a step too far, because you are still the minister responsible. I have not received an answer to my question as to how this has been achieved. I asked you when the dossier was submitted to the Committee I and the advisory committee, on the basis of which documents and what the content is. I understand, as the previous speaker said, that intelligence services are responsible for the security of our country and of our citizens, both in Belgium and abroad, and that information must therefore be collected. The way in which this is presented, the way in which the audit is prepared and the information given is totally inadequate. I insist that there is a blur on this whole matter, which does not benefit our intelligence services. The work of our intelligence services should be much more structured, monitored and monitored within the respective committees, as you indicated. By spreading non-information, you're only making things more suspicious.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u106	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am a little disappointed, like my colleagues, with this one. I do not have the impression that you are avoiding the debate, but this is a difficulty in which we find ourselves on the margins of several committees: this committee, which is public, the Monitoring Committee on Military Operations, which is in camera, and the R Committee. We will certainly have the opportunity to come back to the subject in various committees. The lesson to be learned is that much more thought will have to be given in future to the parliamentary oversight of these missions. I also organized a symposium on the subject about two weeks ago. We are constantly told about secrecy, which prevents a series of information from being disclosed, even more here than in the Military Operations Monitoring Committee. We need to reflect on this: perhaps we should grant confidentiality accreditation to the members of the Military Operations Monitoring Committee. I'm also concerned about some of the freedoms you give the SGRS. We sometimes have the impression that some work in more secret than their mission should impose. We need to look at this in the R Committee. In terms of the functioning of the SGRS, we will also have many questions to ask at the hearing of General Van de Voorde next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u107	Mr President, I would like to congratulate you on applying the Rules of Procedure correctly. That's what I'd like to say. I am looking around for a moment, the only one in the Chamber who is a member of both the Defence Committee and the Committee responsible for supervising the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee I and the Committee responsible for the follow-up of foreign missions, so it is quite clear to me. Each one has its role to play in this and each one also plays its part. I have therefore heard answers to the specific questions I have asked, in particular on the functioning of the ADIV and specifically on the CI section. It is true that yesterday there was a meeting of the committee responsible for supervising the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee I and that we received a report from the Committee I on the operation, just as you received that report on 15 May, if I am not mistaken. That's not a novel. Many pain points are highlighted and working points cited. There's a lot of work on the shelf. In this sense, it is good that we have heard your opinion on this. You have said that things are already in progress, but it is also true that deadlines have been set for achieving a number of very high priority objectives. In this sense, it is also interesting to hear the views of General Van de Voorde on this matter next week. I certainly look forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u108	Mr President, I would simply like to give an opinion to Members, who are probably already active in the social media, to read the report on what I have said and what I have not said. Of course I should be aware, Mr De Vriendt, but should I be aware of every detail and individual contact? No. I would even prefer not to, for the sake of people's safety. After all, you forget that this is about people who often talk to partners who no one else wants to talk to, and who perhaps we do not want to know that we need to talk to them, but where this is necessary in function of their mission. In this context, I would like to reiterate that there is a great deal to be said here, but when it comes to applying for a security clearance, so that the whole story can be told and shared, it is much more difficult. I would therefore like to draw your attention to the fact that Parliament, our society, has organized itself to exercise control over intelligence services in a certain way. If you are not satisfied with the operation of the control that you yourself have organised, then I suggest that you take a different approach to that control yourself. I am very sorry to have to answer here for the fact that we are trying to protect our people in the tasks they have to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u109	Minister, I fundamentally disagree with you. I think you should be aware of every detail of these delicate operations. If our military security service in Syria is setting up an operation, you, as the competent minister, should be aware of every detail, especially when it comes to cooperation with YPG. I don't have to tell you why. When we see what is happening in Turkey, NATO Member State, with the decision by US President Trump to stop assisting the Kurdish fighters in Syria, but if we have, you must be aware of every detail of it. The fact that you say that this is not necessary for you and that you have probably not been aware of it, which of course you no longer want to confirm, is particularly problematic. This indicates cowboy behavior within ADIV, stubborn action, lack of guidance and information flow and all that under your jurisdiction. This has been dragging on for years. You've had ADIV muddled. However, there is an audit report from 2011 on ADIV, in which the problems are all clearly listed. I did not receive any answers to the following questions. When exactly was this discussed in the National Security Council? In fact, I am very interested to hear the views of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I'm very curious if he knows all that. What can ADIV do autonomously without your political coverage? What are the guidelines? I didn't get an answer. Was the Committee I aware of these or other operations in advance? I did get an answer to that question. This shows that the Committee I was not informed in advance. You said it was post hoc. So you cannot say in the press that the Committee I is monitoring this type of operation, as it was not informed beforehand. You used the term post hoc, but not in advance. You weren't aware of every detail. The Committee I was not aware of this operation in advance. Then who knew about it? No one, except the ADIV itself. That is particularly problematic. You do not want to engage in this debate. You don't seem to realize the problem yourself either. In your reply, you did not mention the problems to be solved within the ADIV. You didn't say that, even though there are problems. Let us debate this, but you are acting as if nothing is going on, and that is problematic for the performance of our intelligence services. Besides, this has nothing to do with protecting our people. If you were aware of every detail, this will not prevent our people from being perfectly protected and the operation from being compromised. You are, of course, defending the argument of protecting our people, even though this is not at all relevant. By the way, we are on the same lines as you are on that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic919x.u110	We have thus come to the end of our session with oral questions. The Minister had indicated that he wanted to stop between 12:15 and 12:30. We have now come to that time. Since the next question is a combined question, the committee would last later than 12:30. So I suggest we stop now. I thank everyone for being here.
