ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u1	Mr Minister, in the pilot project Achter de Spiegel van vzw Moderator, victims and offenders who were not involved in the same crime were brought into contact through interview groups and together they made a journey towards recovery. The idea came into being in the autumn of 2016 and was supported by the province of West Flanders. In concrete terms, perpetrators and victims met five times in Ypres prison to talk to each other. The project was evaluated. At an evaluation meeting, the results were described as astonishingly positive. For both perpetrators and victims, this project certainly had added value. Victims who were previously bitter because of certain facts, regained confidence. The project could mean ending a difficult period and a new start. The project showed that an unsub is only a human being with his or her bad and good sides. On January 2nd of this year Canvas sent out the documentary "O eye-to-eye," a documentary in which the Vzw Moderator also collaborated for months. The documentary depicted two sisters who lost their brother to a murder and who each responded in their own different ways and tried to process it. Mr. Secretary, are you aware of the existence of that pilot project? Was that also in other prisons and if so, in which one? Are you open to any further deployment of that pilot project, if any, with support from the Justice Department? Are there plans to work with perpetrators and crime victims?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u2	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, besides the pilot project Achter de Spiegel, similar initiatives have taken place in other establishments. Let me give you some examples. About ten years ago, a recovery mediation project ran in Marneffe with a positive result. In 2006 a writing project was organised in Antwerp between perpetrators and victims, including meetings between both parties. That project resulted in the book My thoughts are my bars. Last year, the project "Restel" started painting art at the prison in Beveren, with the restoration theme as the starting point, in which art is used as a means to portray the stories and emotions through photography and graffiti. On a smaller scale, there are also workshops in which victims and offenders come into contact with each other. Such projects have my greatest appreciation. They allow to go beyond the carcan of judicial conflict resolution, which is, of course, crucial in a rule of law and also means the inevitable first step for various offences. As you rightly point out, they give room for the more emotional aspect in the disturbed relationship between the offender and the victim, and facilitate authentic recovery-oriented work. In this way, victims can also become fellow ambassadors of the need for guidance for detainees, a guidance which I believe is not rarely seen as a luxury. These projects were initiated by the services of the Communities. I think it is important that they continue to take on the role of tractors, not because the federal government would not be a party involved, but because the fact that services from outside the justice system include them means added value for both victims and offenders and lowers the threshold for joining these initiatives. It is therefore obvious that the penitentiary administration should do everything in its power to facilitate these projects and create environmental factors in which such a variant of repair-oriented work can thrive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u3	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Becq has converted 22828 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u4	Minister, it is legally prohibited to operate gambling without prior authorisation from the Gaming Commission and it is also prohibited to participate in an illegal gambling game, to facilitate its exploitation or to advertise it. Players can be fined with a penalty of 26 euros to 25 000 euros, multiplied by decimen. For organisers, amounts are fixed from EUR 100 to EUR 100 000, also multiplied by decimen. The Gaming Commission regularly publishes on its website the so-called blacklist of prohibited gambling websites. Except for a mistake of mine, there are 148 prohibited websites with gambling or betting for Belgians. A gambler is therefore punishable if he tries to place or play bets on one of these sites. Firstly, some of these websites are English speaking. So they focus exclusively on a Flemish or Dutch audience. Are there websites that are allowed in the Netherlands but not in Belgium? On the basis of what specific differences in legislation does the Netherlands allow them and Belgium does not? Secondly, how exactly does control happen? Thirdly, how is it determined to add or delete a particular website from that list of prohibited gambling websites? Fourthly, how many theoretical personnel would be needed to have this properly and efficiently checked by the Gaming Commission, the police and possibly other public services? Is private partners also used for this purpose? Fifthly, the fact that these prohibited gambling websites are officially published and that sometimes there is an additional notification when someone visits a prohibited website from Belgium, has a mainly dissuasive effect. That is good, but to what extent are players who participate in a gambling game on a prohibited website, who facilitate their exploitation or advertise for it, really persecuted and brought to court? Can you give figures of the number of investigations, of the number of prosecutions and of the number of court cases in the last three years? Finally, is each of those 148 banned websites in Belgium blocked and redirected to the so-called STOP page? Then I come to my second main question. This concerns the control of the online gambling sector, not so much the illegal but above all the legal ones. The increasing market share online in the gambling and betting sectors has consequences. In 2003, the global online gambling market accounted for 7.4 billion dollars. By 2020, that would be 50 billion dollars. Of course, this also has implications for supervision and regulation. The online gambling facilities are also much more difficult to control by national government agencies than the traditional ones, because the servers are often abroad and the companies behind them are also foreign. Some online gambling facilities are recognised and may offer their products in Belgium, others are illegal, as mentioned in my previous question. In the Netherlands, in November 2015, a study commissioned by Holland Casino showed that nearly 1.5 million Dutch people dared to play on illegal online websites, using half a billion euros. The approved operators of online gambling facilities announced last year that better controls should be carried out. In response to a critique of December 2017 by Marijs Geirnaert, the director of the Flemish Expertise Centre for Alcohol and Other Drugs (VAD), and professor of addiction care Frieda Matthys, experts in a working group of the Supreme Health Council on gambling addiction, that the Gambling Commission does not adequately protect gamblers and that it would facilitate the gambling sector rather than control it, the Gambling Commission already indicated that its work has become much more complex by online gambling. The staff shortage at the Gaming Commission is an old one. In recent years, the number of employees has even fallen. In a customer case of Realdolmen that was available online a few years ago, this has already been mentioned, but the situation has not improved. Chairman Etienne Marique also complained in September 2017 that the IT service of the Gaming Commission had to deal with barely three employees, while the gambling sector is becoming increasingly active on the internet. I have the following questions. Firstly, do there exist studies or figures that estimate the number of people playing illegal online gambling devices in Belgium? Are there studies or figures on the amounts deployed? Can Belgium figures also be benchmarked against other European countries? I would like to get a comparison with the figures from the study commissioned by Holland Casino. Secondly, how can the identities of online players be better checked? A number of proposals have already been made for this, but perhaps it can be done even better. Thirdly, should the legal framework be adapted in order to better limit illegal websites of certain gaming facilities? Fourthly, how can there be more international cooperation than at present to control the online gambling sector and to reduce illegal gaming facilities? Finally, how many employees does the IT service of the Gaming Commission count? Do you think that number is sufficient to handle the tasks or will you take steps to increase the number?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u5	Mr Minister, my question is very brief. The top man of the National Lottery has recently been remarkably sharp for the Gaming Commission. According to him, she does not perform her role as a regulator and controlling organ properly. One has taken the test on one's own account. A minor has been able to register with the Gaming Commission under the supervision of a bailiff without any problem. The Gaming Commission is hiding behind the lack of implementing decisions. There are no criteria or rules and so they can only approve all applications, they say. In our neighbouring countries online gambling is prohibited or strictly regulated. However, Belgium seems like the Far West of online gambling. So there is an urgent need here for strict regulation of online gambling. Minister, I have only two questions. Firstly, when can we expect these implementing decisions? Secondly, what criteria will they contain?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u6	Mr Vermeulen, Mrs Lambrecht, online gambling in the Netherlands is currently not regulated and therefore prohibited. In Belgium the control of illegal websites is carried out on the basis of complaints received. A specialized official of the Gaming Commission examines the website and checks whether it provides for an offer with regard to Belgian residents. If that is the case, a report shall be drawn up and sent to the court. As a result, the Gaming Commission then decides to add the website to the blacklist. This information is also published through the Belgian Official Journal. A website can be removed from the blacklist if the operator of this site adheres to Belgian regulations and if he pays a fine. In consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office, it will be decided whether the file is dealt with by the Public Prosecutor's Office or by the Gaming Commission. A staff plan is currently being discussed to strengthen the Gaming Commission with some 20 staff. This could, among other things, strengthen and improve online controls in the future. Only in 2015 were infringements detected against players of a specific website. In total, these 162 procedures imposed an amount of EUR 82 900 in administrative fines. I'm not sure I read it right. I'll do it again. Only in 2015 were infringements detected against players of a specific website. In total, these 162 procedures imposed an amount of EUR 82 900 in administrative fines. In cooperation with the FCCU, the Gaming Commission has concluded a protocol to block websites that are blacklisted. All providers will be informed of this and will ensure that a STOP page is generated. Exact figures about the number of people arriving on the STOP page are not available. This is due to the fact that providers provide their own STOP page, which is not managed by the Gaming Commission. In the future, efforts will be made to bring everything together on a STOP page so that a better assessment of the illegal market, estimated at 25%, can be made. Authentication of a player.. Who are you? The authorisation holder shall first of all be the holder of the authorisation. The authorization, may I? The EPIS audit shall be carried out at the Gaming Commission. Due to the connection with the National Register, the Gaming Commission is now able to authorize more players in real time. The web services that have to take care of this are ready and rolled out. Other means of control are also being pursued. For example, there is an instruction from the Gaming Commission for the licence holders to request a copy of the identity card of their customers. Some licence holders also use a second identification channel, an SMS code or an email link to confirm and complete their application. In the long term, efforts will also be made to implement other modern technical possibilities using e.g. an iris scan or fingerprints. As far as the regulation on the provision of games online is concerned, it is not correct to say that there are no rules at all in this area at the moment. For example, there are two KBs of 21 June 2011 which provide for a number of conditions regarding the quality of the applicant for the online licence. However, I agree with you that there should be more regulation of gambling and online gambling. As you know, a whole package of new measures, including the restriction of advertising, will enter into force this year. For the rest, specific KBs have already been established in the previous legislature on the provision of games on the Internet, including specific technical rules by type of online licence A+, B+ and F+. There was no political compromise on this at the time. It will be examined whether there is a basis for this and whether a consensus can be reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u7	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive reply with many figures. I'll have some study work to do on that. There are already some points on which I am very pleased, in particular the fact that a staff plan will provide twenty additional staff members to the Gaming Commission, specifically for the online controls. I am also pleased that further checks on the identity of online players are being considered. You have spoken about the EPIS, but additional controls are being considered to ensure that Kermit de Fikker is no longer able to register, as is now possible, by linking text messages, iris scans and fingerprints, so that we know who Kermit de Fikker really is. What amazes me is that you said and reiterated that in 2015 only against players of one prohibited website went into defense. This may have resulted in a good EUR 82 000 in fines, but I believe that only one website has been affected in one year is far too little. This can have a lot to do with a staff shortage in the Gaming Commission, but also with a lack of priorities for this type of case in the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u8	Mr President, Minister, I am amazed at a few things. There is good news, however, that there will be 20 staff members. I think this is not a man too much when one sees what human dramas can lead to an addiction to online gambling. In the Netherlands it is not regulated, in Belgium it is, but it does not benefit much from being regulated if it can be bypassed in all kinds of ways. I am very surprised, and I join Mr Vermeulen in saying that there would be only one website that committed infringements in 2015. That's not because there was only one site that committed infringements, but because there are too few checks to establish infringements. That phrase is a bit of the world upside down. I hope that these twenty full-time staff will be recruited immediately to carry out much more checks immediately, so that we can avoid poignant stories of minors who are gambling online in the future. I look forward to seeing all the good that seems to come to us this year. I hear you say that there was not enough political support in the past to take the full flight ahead. You will certainly have the support of sp.a for any kind of intertwining of online gambling. I may have misunderstood, Minister, but my second question was what criteria one will use to determine whether or not someone is allowed on the sites. I didn't understand if it was just a question of adulthood.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u9	Mrs Lambrecht, my colleague went out with the answer, because I think there was an inconsistency in the answer. You know how it is. If you stay, I'll try to answer that later, but as a rule it's only adults who can access the sites. That goes without saying, but I would just like to see if there was a more precise technical detail in the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u10	Question No 22926 by Mr Paul-Olivier Delannois is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u11	Mr Minister, the Commission for the Supervision of the Sint-Gilles Prison has sent you a letter with some comments on the unacceptable conditions in the prison in Saint-Gilles. Since the end of 2016, there has been an average monthly population of around 800 inmates. At present, the situation is extremely critical with a population of almost 900 prisoners, whereas there is actually only a capacity of 587 prisoners. I list below some examples of defects that are quoted in the letter. The prison's electrical system is extremely old and defective. This has a major impact on general safety. The working conditions for the agents in the psychiatric ward are almost impossible. One cannot communicate with other departments. There are no suitable cells to accommodate agitated detainees. Broken sinks, broken chairs and broken cabinets are not replaced due to a lack of budget. There are no cleaning agents or tools to clean the cells. Due to the tight budget for food, sometimes decayed products are distributed to prisoners. Due to the lack of staff, prisoners often have to wait a long time for medical or dental care. These are all very alarming findings which call for urgent action to improve and rehumanise the living conditions of the prisoners and the conditions of employment of the prison staff. Minister, what measures will you take to address the following problems: the prison's electrical system, the working conditions for the psychiatric services, the broken equipment such as chairs and cabinets, the food problem, health care for the inmates?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u12	Mr Minister, the supervisory committee of the Saint-Gilles prison has delivered an opinion within the framework of its powers. This public opinion highlights unacceptable conditions of detention due to the lack of financial resources allocated to prisons and, in particular, to the prison in Saint-Gilles. The report refers to very worrying situations: the prison population reaches 900 prisoners with an average capacity of 587 prisoners, the food, sometimes damaged, is distributed in insufficient quantities, psychological assistance is not available, access to health care is poor, the staff is understaffed, the cells are very dirty, sometimes without pillows or clean lingerie available, the toilets are blocked, the windows are broken, the electrical system is defective, dangerous, and the prisoners are deprived of electricity for long periods of time, etc. In these circumstances, you would agree, Minister, that the prison institution is no longer in a position to carry out its tasks efficiently and consistently and that the state of this prison is not a reflection of a democratic state. Were you aware of the problems raised in this opinion? What urgent measures are you going to take to address the problems raised by the monitoring committee of the Saint-Gilles prison? How long? Will additional resources be made available quickly to improve the conditions of imprisonment of prisoners and the working conditions of prison staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u13	Mrs Özen, mevrouw Lambrecht, the power failure at the Saint-Gilles prison site on 13 October 2017 was caused by a breakdown in a high-voltage cabin in the vicinity of Electrobel. It is true that the electrical installations in this facility are outdated, but initiatives are under way to improve the situation. The Directorate-General of Penitentiaries plans this year for a complete renovation of the electrical system in one wing of the prison. The recovered equipment, which is still in good condition, will be used for the maintenance of the system within the other wings of the prison. In this way, the means available are optimally used to ensure security in the establishment in a sustainable manner. The Régie des Bâtiments also provides for full maintenance and repair of the rescue unit. The public procurement for this purpose has been launched. In addition, a study is under way at the Régie des Bâtiments in order to improve the operation of the low-voltage cabin as well as a file on the complete redevelopment of the Industrial Port. During the transition from the psychiatric annexes, point b, from the site Frost to the site Saint-Gilles, numerous adjustments were made to prepare the wing for the arrival of the internees and to create a suitable working environment for the staff. The necessary offices were provided and equipped for the various staff groups and purposes. In addition, all cells underwent adjustments to accommodate interned persons: adapted luminaires and mirrors, fixation of radiators and an adapted arrangement of the cell furniture to avoid dead corners. The psychiatric annex also has a time-out cell in which interned persons can stay for a short time in the event of a psychotic disturbance associated with a certain degree of agitation. Both are regularly used as time-out cells to move internees from a regular penalty cell into a care context early, before the end of disciplinary sanctions. A capitulated cell is not present. As far as communication is concerned, it's true that there were problems. This is resolved by, on the one hand, an additional communication system and, on the other hand, a reinforcement of the DECT network will soon be achieved through the installation of additional antennas. The Saint-Gilles site is characterized by a large population of short stays resulting in an acceleration of the wear and tear of the equipment made available compared to prisons where the average length of stay is longer. With its budget, the prison is doing its best to replace or repair defective equipment. Thus, material from the unoccupied wings of the Forest site, such as furniture, is recovered to the maximum. There is no basis for the complaint regarding the lack of maintenance or tooling products used to clean cells. Nor is it true that food is being given to prisoners whose use date has been exceeded. Within the budgetary area, the prison, like other institutions, does everything possible to offer qualitative meals to the detainees. Inmates always have the choice of three menus: the traditional, the pork-free and the vegetarian menu. Qualitative complaints are, of course, more difficult to objectify without a thorough analysis. DG EPI has launched a public contract to carry out an analysis of the current organisation and of the processes and procedures for catering in prisons. The aim is to gain insight into possible initiatives to optimise catering within the available budgetary space. Cost efficiency and quality optimisation, food quality and quantity, nutritional value of meals, quality of work processes and control are the most important criteria. The procedure for this is under way. As regards food safety measures, the establishments developed a local action plan following a check by the Federal Food Chain Safety Agency in November 2017. The points that the prison itself cannot take up were discussed and this was recorded with the Government of the Buildings. All inmates who enter are consulted by a general practitioner within 24 hours and receive front-line medical assistance. Subsequently, the inmate may request further consultations. It is, of course, up to the medical department to settle these consultations. At the level of medical assistance specialized in dentistry, there is a similar waiting period to that observed in free society. As regards medical assistance in the case of drug-related problems, the prison was already more than active in its own medical service, but also because of the presence of stakeholders from various services which fall within the competence of the Communities. In addition, this prison is one of the pilot projects that have recently been launched in collaboration with the Public Health FPS.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. If I heard you talk, I'd think in the long run that anyone who alarms us about complaints in Saint Gillis has a predisposition to exaggeration and false business. I take note of your answer. With the people who work there, I will test whether they exaggerate, whether it is true that it is all so good in Saint Gillis and whether they see progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u15	Minister, thank you. I'm quite surprised at your answer. As Mrs Lambrecht has said, the problems concerning food are inaccurate and I do not see what interest the committee of opinions, many of which work on a voluntary basis, would have to lie. Even though you have given a lot of details – which I will bother to analyse – you have only partially answered the question of whether you were aware of the problems raised by the Supervisory Committee. You have also informed us of a series of initiatives under way, but we have still not obtained the deadlines. These people have been sentenced to deprivation of liberty but certainly not to the torture they are being subjected to! We cannot ask them to put their suffering in deafness while waiting for one or the other analysis or the construction of Haren prison! You are aware of the many convictions against Belgium for inhuman and degrading treatment because the living conditions in our prisons are really unacceptable. Minister, I urge you to take urgent action to deal with these problems and bring some dignity back to our prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u16	Minister, after several weeks of strikes in almost all French-speaking and Brussels prisons, at the end of May 2016, protocol 436 was concluded between you and the representatives of the penitentiary staff. Protocol 436 includes, inter alia, the raising of the number of monitoring assistants to an effective 7 075 full-time equivalent, the reduction of prison overpopulation to 10 000 prisoners, the improvement of prison infrastructure and the elimination of leave delays. In the meantime, Minister, where are we with the implementation of Protocol 436? Why were the previous promises still not fulfilled? When will the framework be filled, as promised to the trade unions a year and a half ago?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u17	Mr President, Minister, the strike movements in our prisons have left traces in the internal services. It is not necessary to recall the exceptional facilities that were then necessary to ensure security in our prisons. As has been said, a memorandum of understanding had been signed. However, according to some trade unions, it would appear that the reinforcement of staff decided was delayed for administrative reasons. Even if my questions overlap with those of my colleagues on the same subject, I would like to know how many supervisors there are in our prisons and what has been the evolution of this workforce since January 2016? What increase in staff is laid down in the Memorandum of Understanding and on what timetable? What is the status of geographical planning? Has the Memorandum of Understanding been delayed in its implementation and, if so, what are the reasons for it? At the same time, what has been the evolution of the number of prisoners in our prisons since January 2016? How long will the planned reinforcement be effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u18	Mr Minister, the prison sector unions decided, on the common front, to schedule two-hour work stoppages on 29, 30 and 31 January and on 1 February. On 2 February, a 24-hour strike would also be expected. The trade unions denounce the non-compliance with the Memorandum of Understanding, signed only by the Flemish delegations and the minority Francophone union SLFP. The protocol provided for the replacement of one by one, up to the full recruitment of the 480 to reach the strength of 7,075 commitments. It would seem that we are far from it, since the unions estimate that for more than 300 departures, there were only 120 commitments. Should we also recall that the Court of Auditors warned you during the 2017 budgetary control about the lack of sufficient funds to comply with all the measures in the Memorandum of Understanding? Mr Minister, you cannot disregard your words given to these agents who work under harsh conditions and who have stopped their action on the basis of an agreement that would be thrown into oblivion today. Even though my questions have already been asked by my colleagues, can you tell us today about the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding? How many additional officers have been hired and how many more are still to be hired to ensure that the agreement is fully respected? What about the question of the evolution of the rank and salary of agents? How do you justify that the entire protocol measures have not been implemented? Are you planning to make commitments to prison officers quickly? If so, what are they? Are there any new meetings with the unions planned? There is an urgent need for concrete and satisfactory measures to avoid a new crisis such as that we experienced in May 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, the commitments set out in Protocol 436 concluded on 30 May 2016 concerning staff were as follows: the recruitment of 480 statutory staff, with a distribution of 386 prison monitors, 9 psychologists, 13 social assistants, 4 medical workers, 31 administrative staff, 26 security staff and 11 level A officers; an increase of the ASP (correctional supervision assistants) staff to reach the planned level of 7,075 full-time equivalents. At the same time, however, the "Working differently" exercise was under way. The purpose of the exercise was to determine how it was possible to work differently and save at the same time. The second commitment was to freeze any staff savings in 2016, resulting in the replacement of each departure in 2016 for all categories of staff. The one-in-one replacement continued in 2017 aimed at the full recruitment of 480 people to try to reach the strength of 7,075 full-time equivalents. A total of 386 prison monitors were to be recruited by the end of the first half of 2017. This commitment also provided that, in any event, the framework of each institution would be maintained at the level of the "Working differently" framework. It was expected that the exercise would be finalized in mid-2017 and that the framework "Working differently" would become the frame of reference. The results of the exercise were accepted in Protocol 455 of June 9, 2017. What have been the achievements? The figures for December 2017 are as follows: 581 recruitments of prison monitors, 386 promised plus 60 staff members; 14 recruitments of psychologists, 9 promised plus 4 staff members; 10 recruitments of social assistants, 13 promised plus 8 staff members, plus 2 planned; 4 recruitments of medical personnel, 4 promised plus 12 staff members; 6 recruitments of administrative staff, 31 promised plus 4 staff members, plus 39 planned; 21 recruitments for the security corps, 26 promised (26 recruitment files were ready but 5 people withdrew); 1 recruitment at level A, 11 promised. As you can see, the protocol has indeed been implemented with regard to the recruitment of new staff. However, due to the relatively high number of staff retiring, retiring for medical reasons, resigning or moving to another department with mobility, the number of 7 075 was not reached by mid 2017. However, Protocol 436, concluded on 30 May 2016, also refers to the framework "other work'. With the conclusion of Protocol 455, on 9 June 2017, the "other works" exercise was concluded and it was stipulated that the posts in the penitentiary establishments should not fall below 6 825 according to a specific distribution per prison. On 23 October 2017, we were closest to that number, namely 6 795.8 for 7 866 effectives. That was 29.2 full-time equivalents away from the standard of 6 825. On January 9, 2018, the Authority's commitments were as follows. Compliance with Protocol 436, concluded on 30 May 2016, fills the supervisory and technical staff of each institution up to the level of the "Working differently" framework. This number is set at 6,825 full-time equivalents in Protocol 455 of June 9, 2017. It will be maintained at this level, with unchanged policy. To meet this commitment, an agreement by the Minister of Budget to recruit 120 people for the Directorate General of Corrections (DG EPI) was given on December 22, 2017. The recruitment is broken down as follows: 79 prison monitors and 41 administrative and medical staff. This morning, I received the consent of the Minister of the Public Service for these 120 commitments. Beyond this budget agreement, 80 additional prison monitors are planned to be recruited to reach the "Working differently" framework everywhere. In this way, it will be possible to carry out the promised mutations. Other measures will be discussed in the Absenteeism Working Group, bearing in mind that the possible budgetary impact of these measures will have to be taken up within the available appropriations. As far as medical personnel are concerned, priority will be given as far as possible to the recruitment of staff on the basis of existing recruitment reserves. In this way, a number of nurses, who are currently working as interim staff and who have succeeded in a recruitment selection, can also become actual staff of the prison system. As they are currently being paid through operating costs, there is also a need to shift resources to staff appropriations. In the next consultation with the trade unions, a proposal for phasing, baraemic promotion and promotion to the higher level or to the higher level will be submitted, to be distributed over 2018 and 2019 in accordance with envelope 2. With regard to overpopulation, the various measures that have already been taken in this regard will be continued. The evolution of the number of detainees is as follows: on 4 January 2016, 11,071; on 3 January 2017, 10,345; on 12 January 2018, 10,225. In collaboration with the Régie des Bâtiments, many efforts are being made to meet the prerequisites for the success of "Working differently". The issue of living expenses allowance for secondments will be resolved by carrying out the promised transfers, while the issue of commuting between home and workplace will be clarified by the administration before March 1, 2018. On January 15, 2018, there were 6,699.66 full-time equivalents out of 7,784 staff. The evolution of technical monitoring personnel is as follows: - 4 January 2016: 7,842 staff, representing 6,825.76 full-time equivalents; - 2 January 2017: 7,693 staff, representing 6,653.9 full-time equivalents; - 1 January 2018: 7,791 staff, representing 6,713.06 full-time equivalents. I plan to hire the winners as soon as possible. This will be done on February 1st for some, on February 15th, on March 1st and 15th, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but I, like my colleagues, have been overwhelmed by the figures. We cannot interpret them immediately. The answer could have been short. In the meantime, where are we? How far are we from the promises? Very far or are we very close? I can't possibly estimate that from the numbers I heard here. We know that we are still a long way from it. That's what we hear here and there. But your answer doesn't make any sense. It would have been easier if you could have said that in six months' time we would have achieved everything. I believe that even the trade unions would be satisfied if they could now have heard that the objective would be achieved in any way, even if it would take some time to achieve it. I'll take a look at your numbers and pass them on as well. Anyway, from what I hear now, I conclude that we are still a long way from implementing Protocol 436.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u21	Minister, even if you spoke slowly, I would lie by saying that I have noted all the figures quoted. Moreover, your answer was very complete, and I will not reply further.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u22	Minister, thank you. Like the translators, I was a little lost or even "smoked" by all these numbers. I wish I had a precise figure. There were 120 commitments for 300 departures. When are we going to fill the frame? The question is as simple as that. How long? It will take a lot of time to analyze the figures provided. But repeated strikes should also be avoided. This is based on the same philosophy as the previous question: working and detention conditions, lack of resources allocated. You claim to work differently by saving money. At one point, it's no longer possible!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u23	Question No 22954 by Mr Gilles Vanden Burre is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u24	Minister, with good reason, you and your colleague Minister Bellot are making road safety a priority. You have also recently demonstrated this with the passage of the bill to amend road legislation penalties and to increase penalties for high blood alcohol levels, recidivism, the absence of permits or the offence of escape. But the issue of speeding remains a real problem in some parts of the country. There are defined tolerance thresholds for speeding, but it would appear that a circular from the Attorney-General would have been issued recommending uniform rules for driving control and greater severity for immediate perception in the event of speeding. Minister, what is the tolerance threshold for speed limit exceedances of 30 km/h and 50 km/h? Do you confirm the circulation of this circular of the Attorneys General? If so, what is the reason for this initiative? Will the police zones then be obliged to ensure the uniformity desired by the general prosecutors regardless of the place of the offence?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u25	Mr. Pivin, there is indeed a circular 11/2006 from the Department of Justice and the College of Attorneys General containing a uniform policy of controls, findings, research and direction of prosecutions in respect of violation of the authorized speed. The legal basis for this initiative is article 151 of the Constitution. The Public Prosecutor's Office is independent in the conduct of individual investigations and prosecutions without prejudice to the right of the competent minister to order prosecution and to issue binding criminal policy directives, including research and prosecution policy. With regard to your question on the degree of tolerance, when the offence is committed in zone 30 in agglomeration, for persons residing in Belgium, Circular 11/2006 provides that the police may propose to the offender an immediate perception only on condition that the maximum permissible speed is not exceeded by more than 30 km/h. If the speed exceed 30 km/h, the police are required to send the report directly to the prosecutor's office for prosecution. Since the above circular is common, the police services are required to apply it. However, as pointed out in my reply to Mrs Karin Temmerman's written parliamentary question No 54/1/1791 on speeding, Circular 11/2006 provides for a consultation between the King's prosecutors and the police authorities in order to establish the most effective means of control: intervenors, police officers and others, nature of controls, timing, duration, number of hours of on-the-spot checks, frequency, traffic density and traffic flow, location, number of persons affected, number of vehicles to be checked, number of manual and automatic equipment made available per unit and number of hours of operation of such equipment, quota per police zone, etc. It is within the framework of this circular that the control policy (research findings and prosecution guidance) is determined within each judicial district, which may, in particular, lead to the determination of tolerance thresholds in the event of exceeding the authorized speed. This concerted policy makes it possible to focus efforts on the identification and prosecution of the most dangerous road safety offences. As a result, it must be able to be amended quickly by the public prosecutor's offices in accordance with the circumstances of time and fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u26	Minister, according to an opinion of the Supreme Council of Justice on a draft decree, there seems to be a risk that there will be derogations from certain decisions of the youth court in the context of coerced aid. It is the press that informs him, citing the expanded competence of the director of youth protection, who is the head of the judicial protection department in the French Community. The latter could put an end to a judge's decisions, for example, when he finds that the safety of a minor is not seriously compromised. I don't know this draft decree. I would therefore like to know whether your services have been seized of this issue, which somewhat limits the competence of the Director of Youth Protection in the implementation of a constraint which the Youth Court would decide. Is there indeed a risk of derogation from the Youth Court's decisions on this matter? Have your services taken any initiatives following the advice of the Supreme Council of Justice to clarify this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u27	Mr. Pivin, I have referred your question to the College of Attorneys General. The coordinator of the network of expertise of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the field of youth protection provided me with the following information. To sum up, the problem is rather the competence of Minister Madrane, since the Communities have competence in the field of Aid and Youth Protection. Nevertheless, the coordinator informed me on some general aspects of the matter. I quote: "In the unilingual French-language region, the power given to the director of youth protection to implement the measure of compulsory assistance of the youth court is not new, but the date of the decree of 4 March 1991 on youth assistance. This does not concern the situation of minors whose persons exercising parental authority reside in the Brussels-Capital Region. Only minors in danger and not minors prosecuted for an offence described as an offence are targeted. Finally, the possibility of putting an end to a measure of compulsory aid for minors in danger before the end of one year is now even subject to approval by the juvenile court."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for the clarifications you have given me. I still hear that you have not been fully documented on these issues. I will probably seek clarification elsewhere in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u29	Minister, I have six questions about our prisons. The first question concerns the visit of the DeRadex wings. Visitors in prisons may try to smuggle something in for their loved ones. That shouldn't surprise us. It is therefore important to screen visitors sufficiently before granting them access. I have three questions about this. How are visitors checked upon arrival in prison? Is there a difference between visitors for the ordinary regime and those of the DeRadex wings? Do prisoners in the DeRadex wings get visitors? If so, is this in an open space or behind glass? In other words, is there any physical contact possible? Is the visit for the prisoners in DeRadex wings more strictly controlled than for others? Do you have any figures of the number of times a visitor tried to smuggle something into one of the DeRadex departments?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u30	Mr Metsu, the organisation of access control to prisons is initially regulated by the Ministerial Letter No. 1728 of 19 April 2001. This control is composed of a triptych of identification, registration and detection. The activities covered are later developed in security processes which, by their nature, are of course confidential. There are clear instructions describing which checks visitors are subject to and how the checks should be carried out in practice. Special training shall be given to staff in charge of this task. The purpose of the identity check is to identify the capacity in which a person wishes to enter the prison: as a member of staff, as a visitor to a prisoner, as a supplier of goods or as a prisoner, if he has e.g. left the prison to go on leave and then returns. Each person is then registered. For visitors of detainees this is done on the basis of their identity card. Visitors to inmates are also screened preventively through the FTF database. In this way, more than two hundred thousand visitors have been screened for possible security issues since the time of the visit, and thus prior to a possible initial presence in prison. Subsequently, all of these persons must go through the metal detection portals and are only allowed if the doorways do not signal. In some personal circumstances, this detection is carried out on the basis of portable scanners. The personal effects and other goods or objects are checked via an RX device. Forbidden items such as mobile phones are kept in lockers under locker. Secondly, visitors of detainees residing in a DeRadex department are subject to the same strict control. Staff are supposed to be extra alert, strictly observe and report anything that might be suspicious. Thirdly a, prisoners of DeRadex departments can receive daily visits, basically in a common area. Their visit is not taking place at the same time as that of the other detainees. Thirdly, b, the number of prisoners present in the visiting room is therefore more limited. They must take their seats in designated places. Therefore, there is stricter supervision than other detainees. If there are individual indications that the visit could compromise safety, an order shall be taken to ensure that the visit takes place behind glass. I can still tell you that in Ittre prison a project is under way to build an annex to the DeRadex department, so that a completely separate visit can be organised in a room reserved for this category of prisoners only. From a preventive point of view, there will also be an additional check for visits which must be requested in advance and in particular for applications from family members who are related beyond the second degree or from non-family members. The legitimate importance of the visit must be demonstrated here in particular. Thirdly, in Hasselt, three times a person was caught trying to smuggle something in for an inmate who was staying in the DeRadex department. Every time it was about the same person and specific food, kebab and dates. Two incidents occurred in Ittre in 2016. Once it was about hiding stamps when leaving the visit and once a prisoner tried to smuggle a flash drive with him after the visit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u32	Minister, France started in February last year on the advice of an anti-terrorist committee with the Office of Central du Reneignement Pénitentiaire an intelligence service focusing on the French prison system. The service collects all possible relevant information in the fight against terrorism, great banditism and escape attempts. He never gets in touch with inmates himself, but installs bugs in prison cells or listens to the often smuggled cell phones of inmates. With the large number of radicalised people in our Belgian prisons, such a service can also be effective in our country. Firstly, is it an option to create such an intelligence service in Belgium? Secondly, are such investigations already taking place in our prisons? Can prisoners, for example, be bugged? Thirdly, according to a newspaper, a study is currently being carried out into the feasibility of such a service in our country. How's the investigation going? When will the decision be made? Fourthly, what do you think are the advantages and disadvantages of such an intelligence service with us?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u33	Mr Metsu, the intelligence gathering in prisons was entrusted to the security of the state. In 2015, the update of the Radicalism Plan at the VSSE established a department specialising in the phenomenon of radicalism and extremism in prisons. So the VSSE agents aren't part of the prison system. However, the VSSE is in daily contact with the prison directories and the Extremism Coordination Cell at the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions. Strategic cooperation is aligned with the Working Party on Prisons of the Radicalism Plan. The Act of 30 November 1998 allows the VSSE to apply various special intelligence methods, including direct eavesdropping in intelligence investigations into phenomena such as terrorism and radicalism. These methods can be applied in prisons. In order not to compromise the techniques and investigations used, it is not possible to communicate further. The Code of Criminal Procedure also provides for numerous possibilities for the detection of serious crimes. In certain other countries, such as France, a private intelligence service was set up within the prison system. The Extremism Coordination Cell of DG EPI has carried out a work visit to France and it will be examined internally to what extent such an organisation is desirable and possible in Belgium. Such a service offers advantages and disadvantages, which need to be studied in depth. The advantage of an internal intelligence service can be referred to the knowledge of the area, the customs and the organisation of the prisons. However, the creation of a new service inevitably creates a barrier which can distort the flow of information to other domestic and foreign services and breaks the link between information from the outside world and from prisons. In the short term, therefore, it is desirable to maintain the current structure and strengthen cooperation between DG EPI and the VSSE, for example by adding contact persons on radicalisation and liaison officers to prisons. In this context, reference can be made to the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the terrorist attacks, in the section on Radicalisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u34	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u35	Minister, the language between prisoners is often a different language from Dutch. It's often Arabic. That's also true in the DeRadex wings. Will their multilingualism be taken into account in the appointment of guards? Are there more guards in the DeRadex departments who understand and/or speak Arabic? Are these guards present when inmates make phone calls? Has the usefulness of Arabic speaking guards been proven? Have there been situations where prisoners have been able to avoid potentially threatening situations thanks to their multilingualism?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u36	Mr President, the recruitment of prison guards does not take into account multilingualism, but this is considered an additional asset. Staff are affected in one of the prisons in the region which they preferred and for which they passed the selection tests. The DeRadex departments no longer employ security assistants who speak Arabic than in other departments. The staff working in these sections shall be members of staff who have applied. The local prison directories and the central administration of the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions will, of course, ultimately have no influence on the nominations, despite the fact that more staff have been encouraged to run for office because they are multilingual. The DeRadex department in Hasselt does not employ staff who speak Arabic. In Ittre, however, there is a staff member who is powerful in the Arabic language in the DeRadex department. The phone regime for the DeRadex inmates is in no way different from that of the other inmates. There will be an additional screening of telephone numbers prior to consent. However, the security staff must not eavesdrop on inmates' phone calls. They do not therefore remain in the immediate vicinity of a prisoner when he or she makes a telephone call. In any event, the telephone system records all the numbers called by the detainees and may, within the framework of their legal orders, have judicial authorities and intelligence services investigate them, up to and including listening to the calls via the telecom operator. Then I come to your third question. Each prison has in the past been confronted with an ad hoc need for staff who are powerful in Arabic. This can be useful, for example, to start a first conversation with the prisoner who is being brought into prison, to provide him with information about how to go and sail in prison, to accompany disciplinary hearings or other conversations with prison staff or to follow conversations between two or more prisoners. This also applies to other languages, such as the Slavic languages, spoken by many prisoners. Understanding the language of a prisoner accelerates communication time and can prevent misunderstandings and promote mutual understanding. We have no knowledge of a specific situation in which a staff member with knowledge of Arabic or another language has been able to defuse a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u37	Mr President, I am not replicating and I would like to move on to my next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u38	Unfortunately, Minister, the risk of radicalisation in prisons has still not disappeared. Your initiative of the DeRadex wings in Ittre and Hasselt must solve the problem. Minister, how many terrorist suspects with risk profiles are currently in our prisons? Can you make a subdivision per prison? Can you make a division between men and women? Are those inmates being followed? Do you see a positive evolution? How many people are currently in the DeRadex department of Ittre? How long have these people been here? Do they have a chance to return to the ordinary regime? How many people are currently in the DeRadex department of Hasselt? How long have these people been here? Do they have a chance to return to the ordinary regime? How do you estimate the future? That is, of course, a very subjective question. Does your approach to radicalisation within the prison walls remain unchanged?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u39	Today, the Extremism cell of the DG EPI and the Security of the State succeeds 237 prisoners, accused and interned people in the framework of extremism and terror. That's 229 men and 8 women. For the distribution by prison I will provide a table to the secretariat of the committee. Each of these prisoners shall be placed in one of the following categories. Category A is the terrorists, which are all prisoners suspected of, convicted or interned for acts of terrorism pursuant to Article 137 or 141 of the Criminal Code. Category B contains all inmates who are not in custody for acts that were legally classified as terrorist offences but where there is a clear link to terrorism, as evidenced by the detention title or because the person concerned proves to be strongly associated with the violent extremist's profile through word or deed. Category C are the foreign terrorist fighters, the detainees who were included on the so-called consolidated list of the OCAD. Category D is the prisoners showing signs, suspicion of radicalisation or radicalisation of other detainees. In addition to 237 inmates, the State Security has identified about 210 other detainees on whom information on possible radicalisation exists, but for whom a more flexible follow-up is preferred. On the basis of special instructions intended for local prisons, each category shall be followed closely. In addition to the follow-up of these categories by the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions, the Communities also contribute to the follow-up and supervision of those detainees. In addition to the regular operation of the various departments of the Communities, two radicalisation officials work in our prisons in Flanders. In Brussels and Wallonia, these assignments are carried out by the non-profit organisation CAPREV. Imams in prisons also make an important contribution to the mentoring and framing of radicalised detainees. For the follow-up, the State Security has a specialised team of agents from the outer and interior services in direct contact with the prisoners concerned. The problem of extremism and radicalisation requires a multi-agency approach, in which all partners can contribute from their specific point of view to finding solutions and remedies for the problem. It is too early to see trends in the figures, let alone to draw conclusions now. I note, however, that we are able to isolate the most dangerous extremists, recruiters and hate preachers from the other prisoners, so that the risk of contamination of others is reduced to a minimum, the so-called containment. At the moment 22 prisoners are staying in the DeRadex departments, 14 in Ittre and 8 in Hasselt. They were placed in the DeRadex departments between April 2016 and August 2016. The DeRadex departments have always been understood as transit departments; in other words, the prisoners placed there should no longer stay there if the reasons for the placement are no longer present. The intention is to get them back into the ordinary prison life and into the service and activities associated with it as soon as possible, but with the care of safety in mind. They too will one day leave prison and should do so under the best possible conditions. Working for such reintegration is therefore preferable not from the DeRadex departments, but from the regular departments. Given the evolution of the approach of radicalisation within the prison walls in recent years, I am convinced that stillness means decline. The insights in and tackling radicalisation are constantly evolving. The multi-agency approach brings us new insights every day and requires us to adjust our approach according to our understanding of the genesis of radicalisation, deradicalisation and disengagement. The concern about the outflow of detainees from the DeRadex departments is an example of this. All in all, we are certainly doing well in Belgium. More and more foreign services come to Belgium to see how we deal with the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u40	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u41	Mr President, Minister, every prisoner has the right to send and receive an unlimited number of letters. The post is only checked for objects or means, but the contents are not read, unless the prison director fears for the order and security of the prison. The same applies to the letters sent by prisoners. In exceptional cases, the investigating judge may prohibit correspondence for certain detainees. I have the following questions. Firstly, do you have any figures of the number of letters that were opened in previous years and contained incriminating material? Can you distinguish between pleas in law, on the one hand, and objectionable content of letters, on the other hand? Secondly, do you have figures of the number of objectionable letters that were intercepted some time after receipt? I am thinking, for example, of the manual to make a bomb or a recruitment folder from IS. Thirdly, the prisoners in the DeRadex wards are also getting mail. Are their letters automatically checked for fear of order and security? Fourthly, how many prisoners are no longer allowed to receive correspondence at the moment on the orders of an investigating judge?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u42	Mr Metsu, the number of letters that appeared to contain burdensome material after inspection, as incoming mail or after they were intercepted, is not registered in a centralised manner. The establishment shall be kept in the individual records of the detainees. For these reasons, no global figures can be given. Inmates residing in the DeRadex Departments shall be subject to additional order measures, including systematic control of incoming and outgoing items, in accordance with the provisions of the Basic Law. As far as incoming mail is concerned, this means that the letters sent to the detainees are subject to a check before they are handed over. This check is initially of a penitentiary nature only. It concerns the opening of letters to verify the presence of foreign objects or substances in the exchange of letters. The correspondence may be read if there are individual indications that this is necessary for the preservation of order and security. In that case, the prisoner shall be subject to an order measure allowing the Director to read his correspondence. This shall also be done systematically, where appropriate. As regards outgoing correspondence, the basic law provides that letters sent by the detainees shall not be subject to the control of the Director or the staff member he designates prior to dispatch, unless there are individualised indications that a check is necessary in the interests of order or security. Here, too, the regime deviates from the normal regime in the DeRadex departments by means of order measures and is therefore subject to systematic monitoring of outgoing correspondence. If an analysis of the content of the outgoing or incoming letters reveals that any unauthorised items do not constitute a danger to security but are nevertheless not allowed, they shall be deposited in the prisoner's personal luggage. If the detection gives rise to concern as to whether the objects may constitute a manifest threat, they shall be kept at the disposal of the judicial authorities. Similarly, a reread letter containing no suspicious information may be sent to the prisoner or sent to the outside world. In other cases, if the content reveals a threat or if the prison is unable to investigate the letter, this letter will also be kept at the disposal of the judicial authorities. Fourthly, if the investigating judge imposes a decree, it is effectively registered in Sidis Suite and could be given an overview of it. However, such a measure has a broader scope than the limitation of the exchange of letters. The latter limitation, if it is in itself, shall be recorded only in the individual file. For these reasons, there are therefore no global figures available in this case either. In our experience, the investigators make little use of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u43	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u44	Minister, this question concerns the so-called recent problems within the DeRadex departments. What I have read about this, I take with a grain of salt, and that is why I did not tell you immediately about it. I'm just gonna get a pulse on the state of play. Last weekend I read in the newspaper what would go wrong in our prisons, especially with terrorist suspects and with prisoners with a risk profile in prisons. They talked about forbidden weapons, but if I'm not mistaken, it was about a toothbrush torn down. They also talked about cell phones being smuggled in effortlessly, allowing terrorist suspects and risk profiles to communicate with each other and with contacts in Syria and Iraq. I ask you the following questions, Minister, in order for you to be able to dot the i's. First of all, are these allegations correct? Secondly, how many incidents would it be about? How many illegal weapons have been smuggled into the prisons and intercepted? Is this about the ordinary regime or the special DeRadex departments? How often have cell phones been discovered in prisons? Is this about the ordinary regime or the special DeRadex departments? How often has a threatening communication been intercepted between two or more terrorist suspects or risk profiles among themselves or with the outside world? How many such incidents have been registered in recent years? Can you make a breakdown by prison and by type of incident? How can and will you avoid such incidents in the future, should they occur or occur?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u45	Mr President, Mr Metsu, I think the least we can say is that these allegations are somewhat tendentious. Since the creation of the DeRadex departments in 2016, one mobile phone has been found in the DeRadex department of Hasselt, and one broken toothbrush to which a point was sharpened in the DeRadex department of Ittre. The find in Ittre could be considered a prohibited weapon, although it is not certain that the prisoner intended to use it as a weapon. I can't put it better than the director of Hasselt's prison did last weekend in the broadcast De Seventhe Dag. The Directorate-General for EPI does not keep a systematic record of the number of weapons found in prisons, apart from the content of the concept of "weapon." Many objects can be used as weapons if they are intended to do so. I am thinking, for example, of cutlery, a ballpoint pen, a glass pot, boiling water, a chair and the like. Forbidden weapons stricto sensu, which fortunately are rarely confiscated, are handed over to the police. The most detailed information on such incidents can be found in the individual records of the detainees. The disciplinary register at prison level contains too little data to draw relevant statistics from it. A specific register of weapons is not yet being used. As far as the DeRadex departments are concerned, until now, as I said, only in Ittre was a broken toothbrush found. In 2017, a total of 297 mobile phones were recovered in Belgian prisons. None of them were in the DeRadex departments. As has also been shown by the report of the Committee of Inquiry set up following the attacks in Brussels, all the actors involved within and outside the prison system confirm that the hermetic isolation of detainees is impossible. Contacts between the DeRadex prisoners within the department are of course logical, since the intention of that department is to separate the prisoners concerned from other prisoners who they would try to attract into a radicalisation process, but it is not the intention to further isolate them within the department itself. Within this department, too, we need to create a living environment that is as close as possible to a normal prison life. Based on the information I have at my disposal, I cannot confirm that there have been direct telephone contacts between DeRadex detainees and Belgian Syrian fighters in Syria or Iraq. Moreover, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that knowledge of contact with the outside world in the context of terrorism does not mean that contact is not followed up by the services. You will understand that I cannot say anything else about this. The fact that only one mobile phone has been recovered from the DeRadex departments so far proves that the security measures taken are effective. The measures taken concern mainly searches of the clothes of the prisoner's person, of the residence area and of other common areas in which prisoners can reside and sweep. Metal detection barriers and RX devices are also used. The doorways screen people. The RX devices screen baggage from prisoners, staff and visitors. For example, through the fouille plans, which each establishment must draw up and some of which are part of the above mentioned checks, we will continue to follow up permanently, in order to maintain the alertness. Thank you, Mr President, Mr Metsu.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u46	Minister, I would also like to thank you for your comprehensive and very clear answers to my questions. A small observation is that, for certain themes within this problem, centralized figures and data are not available here and there. Perhaps it makes sense or even useful to consider whether master data can be drawn from it. Thank you very much for today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u47	Questions Nos 23000 by Mrs Jadin and 23013 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u48	Mr Minister, by judgment of 21 December of the Constitutional Court, some of the provisions of the Law of 5 February 2016, known as the Potpourri II Act, including provisions on the reform of the Court of Assistes, were destroyed. In the field there would be a lack of clarity as to the legal effects of that judgment, which expressly maintains its effects on decisions taken on the basis of the provisions annulled before the date of publication of the judgment in the Belgian Official Journal. However, the actors in the field do not seem to be united on the level of penalties currently applicable. It would not be sufficiently certain and clear which cases would be affected by the judgment delivered. It does not refer to pending cases in relation to facts that have already been committed but have not yet been assessed. In addition, there are questions about what should be done with cases where, as a result of the settlement of justice, crimes have already been corrected in application of the law of February 2016. What should be done about matters that were discussed before publication? What should be done with cases settled at first instance, but where an appeal is pending? The potpourri II Act increased the penalty rate to a maximum of 40 years. This adjustment could also lead to a sufficiently severe punishment for corrupted crimes. After the destruction by the Constitutional Court, at least a few professors and members of the Public Prosecutor's Office believe that the maximum penalty to be claimed can be only twenty years, even though, for example, a heavier penalty was imposed at first instance. I read in the press that you do not share that view. I would therefore like to ask you a few questions in order to clarify matters. What exactly is the effect of the destruction by the Constitutional Court? Is that only on pending cases which have not yet been assessed or on cases where the administration of justice has already been regulated and which have been corrected in this way? What about the cases under consideration before publication? What about the treatment in degree of appeal? What will be the impact in terms of punishment? What are the penalties to be applied in current proceedings, in cases which still have to be dealt with in appeals, in cases which have already been referred to, i.e. where justice is already regulated, etc.? Finally, I asked you a question about the criminal chambers, but I read that you answered that question last week. So I won't take that part again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u49	Ms Van Cauter, judgment No. 148 of the Constitutional Court of 21 December 2017 destroyed the articles of the potpourri II Act which established the generalisation of the correction of crimes and related the increase of the penalty for the corrected crimes. Therefore, it concerns all crimes which, prior to that law, were not verifiable under Article 2 of the Law on the mitigating circumstances of 1867 and which could be corrected by the adoption of mitigating circumstances. Since the Court decided to maintain the effects of the annulled provisions on decisions taken on the basis of them before 12 January, the date on which the judgment was published in the Belgian Official Journal, I share the view that yesterday the College of Attorneys General sent to the prosecutors and that Professor and Advocate General at the Court of Appeal Damien Vandermeersch in Le Soir was the most logical option, namely that a maximum sentence of thirty years could be allowed for the pending crimes on which there is a life imprisonment, for example murder. The old situation will apply to the new court cases from 12 January. For assists, life imprisonment is possible unless the court assumes mitigating circumstances. For the correctional court, therefore, the corrected crimes may no longer include murder, manslaughter or similar more than 20 years in prison. As far as the establishment of criminal chambers is concerned, there is still no agreement within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u50	Minister, I will refrain from commenting. I think it is a good thing that you have a clear answer and that it is important that clarity be established on the ground. I have another question to ask you to understand. I don't know if you can answer it immediately. Did you say that where crimes were corrected, assuming that the new law would apply and could therefore be severely punished, this will no longer be the case from the date of publication in the Belgian Official Journal of the interim judgment of the Constitutional Court? Or did I misunderstand you? Or should I just read it again?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u51	I think so, because as much as I want to be clear, this is so technical that if I say half a word wrong, we take a big risk together.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u52	It is precisely for this reason that I wanted to abstain from commenting, but I will first read your answer carefully to see if I understood correctly and perhaps come back to the matter afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u53	Minister, following an article in De Tijd last weekend concerning electronic surveillance and terrorist inmates, I learned with some wonder that the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions could only give an estimate of the number of terrorist inmates passing through prisons to electronic surveillance. It is claimed that since the transfer of the National Centre for Electronic Supervision to the Communities this has become less clear. Minister, I am sure you will understand my surprise at that statement, as far as it is correct. With regard to the execution of the sentence, the criminal enforcement court is competent for penalties imposed for more than three years, while, on the other hand, you are competent as Minister of Justice for the so-called short-term punishments. De facto, this means that the Directorate-General must implement those penalties and be instructed by you through the letters of conversion, unless I am mistaken. The long-term punishments are also followed in terms of the execution of the sentence. In any case, the state of implementation should be known to the Directorate-General. Firstly, under what circumstances can prisoners who are sentenced to a custodial sentence for terrorist offences be transferred to electronic surveillance, or be eligible for a provisional or conditional release? Does it make any difference for what crime they were convicted of, or is it only the duration of the sentence that matters? Secondly, are short-term punishments in the context of terrorist offences not excluded from electronic surveillance or provisional release by means of a provision of the letter? Thirdly, is it correct that the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions is difficult to give figures and can only make an estimate? If the figures are not available, what is the reason for this? If the figures are available, can you give me an overview of the figures by judicial district?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u54	Ms Van Cauter, inmates convicted of terrorist offences of no more than three years' duration and for whom the Minister has the power to impose penalties are excluded from electronic supervision by the ET/SE2 circular of 17 July 2013, which has been amended several times, including as regards convicted persons for terrorist offences. Such convicts may qualify for a provisional release pursuant to the Ministerial Letter No. 1817 of 15 June 2015, which was amended in July 2017. This letter allows prison directors to release prisoners convicted of terrorist offences for a maximum of one year in prison. For inmates convicted of terrorist offences for whom prison sentences are higher than one year but not higher than three years, the proposals for early release shall be submitted by the prison director to the Directorate-General for Detention Management, which may attach special conditions to the possible release, adapted to the profile of the inmate. Inmates convicted of terrorist offences whose imprisonment is higher than three years are, in turn, subject to the jurisdiction of the criminal prosecution courts, as are those convicted of other offences. This is pursuant to the Law of 17 May 2006. In relation to your third and fourth questions, in the penitentiary database, the codes for terrorist offences only exist since 1 June 2016. Statistical data prior to that date are therefore not available. Such crimes have until then been categorized under the heading "other crimes'. The closed or ongoing files registered under that heading have retained the code "other crimes'. Full statistical data can therefore not be provided for the category requested, except for detentions which took place after 1 June 2016. The data would therefore inevitably be incomplete.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u55	Mr Minister, I will read your answer carefully. The figures from 2016 onwards, from the moment terrorist crimes are coded separately or specifically, are, of course, available and we have access to them. But do I understand correctly that perpetrators convicted of terrorist offences can still be released for the time being?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u56	Those are the rules. I didn't give you numbers, but those are the rules. At the moment, our legislation does not provide for people who are briefly punished for terrorism not to benefit from a provisional release. However, I have ruled out electronic surveillance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u57	Mr Minister, isn't the provisional release always possible only when there is no security risk? Is there a situation or can we imagine a situation in which a person has been convicted of a terrorist offence and yet is not considered to pose any security risk to society? It is a question which at least makes me think. I can see you thinking, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u58	Mrs Van Cauter, the security risk must in any case be strictly assessed as a matter of urgency. That's not why she's happening. As I said earlier to a question from Mr Metsu, the security of the State and a number of other services are closely involved in the succession of terrorist prisoners. However, as long as Parliament does not approve a law that excludes provisional release, I can only inform you that the rules are being applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic799x.u59	Mr. Secretary, I'll think about it.
