ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u1	Madam Secretary of State, in the summer of 2016, Senator Ancials had asked your predecessor about human remains in federal scientific institutions. In her reply, she said about the collections of the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences of Belgium (IRSNB): "The human remains from Africa, Asia, America and Oceania have about 687 items. These are mainly skulls and bone fragments, as well as some fragmentary or complete skeletons, including two moulds. We do not know the names of individuals." A detailed investigation published in Paris Match Belgium on 22 March, however, formally established that skulls belonging to identified persons are well preserved by the institution in question. These skulls of Congolese chiefs who were beheaded under the command of the Belgian soldier Émile Storms, around 1885, ended up in the discreet storage boxes of the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences. The investigation of the journalist Michel Bouffioux shows that three skulls are currently in Belgium: those of the chief tabwa Lusinga, king Maribou and prince Mpampa, whose skull had mysteriously disappeared in the meantime. The Director of the Royal Institute was in favour of organizing the return of human remains corresponding to individuals identified and claimed by related persons. The question then arises of the inalienability of the State's collections. Any change of attitude in this area will obviously require the adoption of a new legal framework. So, Madam Secretary of State, here are my questions. In the light of these new elements, and in particular the journalistic investigation mentioned in my preamble, can you clarify your position? Is the government in favour of returning these human remains? Finally, do you envisage changing the legal framework to allow this restitution, if a request was made by descendants of Lusinga, Maribou, or even – if one finally finds his skull – of Mpampa?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u2	Madam Secretary of State, in March and later last May, the press – in particular Paris Match – revealed the presence of skulls and other human bone fragments, notably from the Congo, in the depots and archives of some Belgian museums. I am thinking of the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences in Belgium, the Royal Museum of Central Africa (MRAC) in Tervuren, but also the anthropology laboratory of the ULB or private collections. Among these remains, three skulls could be identified by name: those of unsubstantiated local chiefs, beheaded "for example" during military expeditions between 1882 and 1885 and reported in Belgium by Lieutenant Émile Storms. Since then, as a result of various little or no inventory of transfers and moves, these are currently on the reserves of the IRSNB, but one of the three skulls, as my colleague said, has not been found there. The director of the IRSNB, Camille Pisani, supported the restitution of these human remains in the event of a request for possible descendants. You yourself, Madam Secretary of State, rightly stated that you were "very shocked" by this story and that you were in favour of a legislative evolution allowing the possible return of these skulls to related Congolese families. You also felt that if such restitution were to take place, it would have to take place within the framework of an "official ceremony" so that Belgium today could bear witness to a "respectful attitude" towards the families concerned and that our country would clearly distance itself from the facts that had been committed at the time. I fully share this view. However, for the moment, these skulls are legally the "property" of the Belgian State whose heritage is inalienable. New legislation, it seems, will therefore be necessary to allow this type of restitution, while maintaining the safeguards necessary to protect the heritage and all the various collections belonging to the Belgian State. Madam Secretary of State, since your statements at the end of March, what has been your reflection on this subject? What are your initiatives? What kind of legislative changes do you think are necessary? Is there no possibility of rendering these human remains without delay and of ex post settlement of the relevant legislation? When do you think you can present texts, if any, to Parliament on this issue? In addition to the emblematic case of the skulls of three unsubstantiated local chiefs kept at the IRSNB, what is your position with regard to the other human remains present in the collections and archives of various institutions in Belgium and, in particular, within the Federal Scientific Institutions? Can you give me a detailed inventory of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the status of the human remains preserved in our museums and their possible restitution are regularly debated within the society, political circles and museums concerned, in this case the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences of Belgium. Also at the international level, the topic of repatriation of human remains is regularly put on the agenda. This is a sensitive and complex issue. I have therefore decided to examine these files in depth in the broader context of a comprehensive approach to the possibility of repatriating human remains while considering whether this is desirable. I have therefore recently set up an administrative working group composed of collaborators from my administration and the federal scientific institutions concerned with this issue. The tasks of this working group include: distinguishing human remains from objects of human origin, examining the current legal framework - more specifically from the point of view that the collections of the Federal Scientific Establishments are State-owned and are in the public domain - and exploring possible avenues for creating a new legal framework that would regulate possible repatriation while taking into account Europe's positions in this area. In addition, as a mission of my administration, I prepared, in the near future, an initial briefing note to prepare the work of the working group. I will submit to the government the results of this working group, possibly accompanied by a proposal to adapt the legal framework. The decision about it will be up to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u4	Mr.President, Madam Secretary of State, the fact that today, in 2018, we were talking about three skulls discovered in the collections of our federal museums shows that the work of memory in relation to our colonial past is just beginning. It is terrible to see that today the three skulls of three African leaders are piled up in the cellars of our museums, while the bust of Lieutenant-General Storms, who is responsible for the beheading of one of them, still sits at Meeûs Square, which is 200 metres away. This shows once again that the work of memory has not been initiated at all by our country. The reopening of the Royal Museum of Central Africa in Tervuren will be an extraordinary opportunity, with a whole new museum, but also, I hope, a whole new approach that we hope postcolonial in the presentation of the collections that are those of our scientific institutions. I think that the reopening of the MRAC is a perfect opportunity for the government, at your initiative, to solemnly return these skulls to show that, in the apprehension of its colonial past, Belgium has completely changed its perspective. It accepts its colonial past and admits the mistakes made by Belgium in the Congo. Giving these human remains to the families concerned – we know that some of them are identified – could be a very nice gesture made by the government, in particular its leader, yourself or possibly a member of the royal family.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u5	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, it is shocking to realize that people have been beheaded because they did not want to submit to the colonial order, that their skulls have been brought back to Belgium and are in some collections, including collections of federal institutions. This raises a serious question about how we still look at these events, and about memory work. The second thing I wanted to tell you is that I am not very impressed by the speed at which we are working on this issue. I very much welcomed your statements in March, but I have the impression that, in fact, the work has not really begun. You recently set up a working group. I think it would be worth much more careful work. As I understand it, for now, we're just looking at the law. I thought we'd move faster. We do not have a real inventory, nor do we have a well-established political position. On these three elements, I expected you to act more quickly. I will allow myself to come back soon enough, because I believe that this deserves a precise and concrete political and legal response, long before the end of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u6	Questions Nos 26647 and 26687 by Mrs Karine Lalieux were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u7	Madam Secretary of State, this is a subject that has covered the chronicle at the beginning of this legislature: the previous President of the Federal Science Policy was ousted from his position as director of BELSPO. As far as we are concerned, it was an unjustified measure, which led to its replacement first ad interim and then definitively by another person. But this replacement was refuted by the Administrative Litigation Section of the Council of State. We believe that this was unjustified in the sense that the procedure for the renewal and opening of the mandate had been carried out in a completely legal manner and that the previous President had received the word "very good" at the end of the term. However, it was evicted for obvious political reasons. After the decision of the Administrative Litigation Section of the Council of State last February, your spokesman stated that the administration would study the decision in order to draw the consequences and quickly appoint an ad interim president. So here we are six months later. We question the fate of this chair of the Steering Committee of the Federal Science Policy, bearing in mind the importance of ensuring that it is carried out in accordance with legal requirements and taking into account the binding decisions of the Council of State on this matter. Madam Secretary of State, how has the decisions of the Administrative Litigation Section of the Council of State been taken into account? By whom and in what capacity is BELSPO's Chairmanship of the Management Committee assured and on what legal basis? Does the president whose appointment has been cancelled continue to exercise certain prerogatives of the presidency? Which ones? Does it still enjoy the benefits of its former function? I'm thinking, for example, of a car with a driver? Does he continue to be paid for this function from which he has been legally evicted? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, the President has put things in context. I'm not going to go back to the events in this case. However, the decision of the Council of State confirmed the previous decisions in favour of Mr Mettens, who was fighting his non-renewal at the head of BELSPO. Your predecessor Mrs. Sleurs gave you a poisoned gift. The question is why you were stubborn in this way and how do you see this situation of appointing ad interim and then finally Mr Delcourt to this position when the solution was obviously the cancellation of his appointment? Madam Secretary of State, I wish I could have had the reasons of the Council of State for its judgment of 20 February 2018. Could you give us the judgment in question? What are the consequences of this judgment that I have not yet had the opportunity to read? What did you conclude for the next time in relation to this judgment? Remember that BELSPO is an entity of 3000 people and 800 million budget, which cannot remain without direction, even if there is a committee that manages BELSPO. What have you done or will you do to try to move forward and return to a normalized situation? Your spokesman announced that you will promptly appoint an ad interim president. Mr Mettens has already announced that he will introduce a new remedy against this designation. There is therefore a risk of judicial guerrillas. In other words, is a conciliation under way or are contacts taken to try to get out of that waspier? With respect to the new position, I would have liked to know what level of pay, what weight and profile do you have or will you establish for this new appointment? Are the conditions related to the function the same as those enjoyed by Mr. Mettens or Mr. Delcourt? How will the conditions you set change the conditions that each of you enjoyed? In other words, will there be a change in the function profile and compensation profile? In addition, we are talking about the restructuring of the Science Policy Department and BELSPO. Until when will BELSPO's role as president exist? Do you imagine a time-limited designation? When will the reform of BELSPO take place? Do you think you can launch it during this legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u9	Members, in its judgment of 20 February 2018, the Council of State annulled the appointment of René Delcourt as President of the Science Policy PPS. Two elements led the Council of State to take this decision. First of all, there is the former cancellation of the weighting of the position of President in Class 5. I would also like to point out that the annulment was purely based on the absence of the reasons in the decision of the Council of Ministers. The other element is the former cancellation of Mr. Delcourt's appointment as Acting Chair of the Science Policy PPS. Since both elements had an influence either on the selection process or on the assessment of applications, this was logically the next step. I'll send you a copy of the judgment in question. It is not for me to rule on the decisions of my predecessor, especially since these decisions are the subject of a procedure in the Council of State. With regard to the new procedures announced by Mr Philippe Mettens, I can only take note of them here. As Secretary of State, it is my duty to do everything possible to ensure that this decision is taken in the most correct and robust manner possible. It is for this reason that I had this decision analysed in depth before proceeding to the following measures. After an in-depth analysis of the Council of State's ruling, we found that before we could proceed with the appointment of a new President or an ad interim President, we had to go through all the steps we had to take. This includes the drafting of a function description and its weighting. Subsequently, we will be able to proceed to the declaration of vacant posts relating to the function concerned. We have immediately started these preparatory steps, but it takes time because we must follow the usual procedures such as obtaining the opinion of the weighting committee, the opinion of the IF, the agreement on the budget or the establishment of a consultation at the level of the Council of Ministers. Today, the work is almost done. Then an ad interim president will be appointed. Indeed, good management of the Science Policy PPS requires that this designation take place as soon as possible. In the meantime, in order to ensure the continuity of the services of the SPP, the organisation of the delegation within it has been provisionally adapted to the situation. On the other hand, I strongly advocate the opening of a consultation with the members of the steering committee, in order to facilitate the monitoring of the functioning of the Science Policy PPS. As such, I would also like to point out that the Royal Decree of 5 April 2018 confers great autonomy on the CFS (Federal Cooperation Commission) vis-à-vis the SPP Science Policy. Thus, the management of his staff credit has been fully transferred to him. The consequences of the absence of a President on its functioning therefore remain minimal. This empowerment has a direct impact on the presidential function. Indeed, the president is not at the head of 3,000 agents, but only 220. At the budgetary level, decisions have also been taken in recent years. The entire budget of the Department of Scientific Policy now amounts to 490 million, much less than the 800 million mentioned. It goes without saying that these elements have been included in the function description of the Chair of the Science Policy PPS Steering Committee. For the time being, it is still premature to comment on the height of compensation and the weighting of the new role of President, since this issue must first be addressed in the Council of Ministers, which will take the final decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u10	Madam Secretary of State, first of all thank you for distributing the Council of State's judgment so that we can see it in full transparency. Then I note that you are taking your distance from your predecessor's decision. That seems to me a pretty wise position. I had already had the opportunity to question you about the decisions that have been made and the fact that you have been minimizing the impact of the absence of a president for some time. It still seems to me a little harmful in fact, but everyone can have a different opinion on the issue. On the other hand, I asked who really chaired the steering committee. I have added a question which, it is true, was not originally foreseen: does the unsuccessful President continue to benefit from the advantages of that function, such as the exercise of certain prerogatives and the emoluments connected with that function? I do not know if you can now give me a more precise answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u11	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u12	All right. Since it wasn't planned, I'll rest it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u13	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, thank you for transmitting the judgment of the Council of State. That is entirely correct of you, and I appreciate that. I take note of your answer. In fact, you are putting in place a whole procedure to reach a new decision. Apparently, the level of qualification will be lower than before. The description of the function will be revised downwards. Maybe I was distracted or misunderstood? Have you said that you will make an ad interim appointment after this appointment, or will it be a five-year appointment? Maybe there's some confusion in the expression.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u14	I heard "ad interim."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u15	Yes. So an ad interim mandate will be given again, pending the reform of BELSPO?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u16	It will be ad interim for a very short period, until the weighting and the procedure are in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u17	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u18	We're going to consider the incident closed but the case is not closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u19	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the reorganization of BELSPO has been waiting for several years – we have been talking about it since the beginning of the legislature – while the morale of the organisation's staff is at the lowest. You made it clear to us, when you presented your general policy note for 2018, that it is better to take the time for good reform, even if it exceeds the next legislature, rather than making too fast a reform that could be overturned. I agree with you on the idea of not reforming in order to reform, at the same time and in any way, as has been envisaged in the past. In addition, I have already asked you a number of specific questions concerning human resources, financial resources and synergies in the context of this reform. You couldn't answer that because you were still waiting for organizational studies. Madam Secretary of State, what is the timetable for the reform of BELSPO? Do you confirm that it will not be led by you in this Parliament? What work will you still do under this legislature? Or will you go to the end of the BELSPO reform before May 2019? On October 17, 2017, you said you could send us the studies on BELSPO. I do not think I received them via the commission's intranet. Could you provide us with the latest studies, including those on the provision of scientific services and services to the public, the evaluation of legal conditionalities, the study on vision and organizational structure, the study on communication management, business plan and the comparative analysis between the current model and future model potentials? In the scenarios you are exploring, will there still be centralized services common to all federal scientific institutions (e.g. ICT, human resources and legal services), in the form of shared service centres common to all empowered clusters? How is the PPS integrated into the FPS Economy? What kind of "quick win" winnings do you think will be earned by integrating the SPP into the SPF Economy? Why do you integrate the Science Policy PPS into the Economy PFS before the overall reform of BELSPO? Is the integration of the Science Policy PPS into the FPS Economy not costing, for example, with an office move? In this whole organization, what about the Interfederal Space Agency? Have the negotiations with the unions taken place? Can you mention that? What answers did you give to the Minister of Budget's four questions? Can you send us these answers with an overview of financial flows, an overview of returns on investment and a management plan including demonstrable savings? Finally, the Walloon Union of Enterprises asked the government to have a discussion on the modalities of the reform of scientific policy, particularly in the field of space. This consultation must take place and an agreement must be reached on a precise description so as not to create an organ that will soon have been sclerosed. Did you coordinate the Walloon Union of Enterprises at its request? Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the additional information you will give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u20	Mr President, Mr de Lamotte, please excuse me, but I will read the text of the reply in Dutch because I do not have the translation. My words will be translated. I would also like to say goodbye to the students and welcome them to Parliament. The reform of federal science policy is a complex reform consisting of a number of underlying interrelated operations, which you yourself cited, such as the FWI, the Science Policy PPS, Space and so on. This reform raises particular demand for the future organisation of support services. As you know, the coalition agreement here talks about setting up shared services for the FWI. First, I would like to look at how structural efficiency gains can be generated in these support services which also benefit the FWI. Therefore, PWC is also responsible for redesigning the M&D, public procurement and legal support processes. The results of this study are expected by the end of the year. In addition, there is a process of setting up shared services for the FWI, driven by a joint steering committee of the FWI and external experts. I would like to emphasise the importance of the correct governance of these shared services. Parallel work is also being carried out on the adaptation of the regulatory framework, both for the Science Policy PPS in the narrow sense and for the FWI. In this way, the reform can be presented to the Council of Ministers as a well-founded and coherent whole. I intend to do so during this term of office, but the implementation will only take place in part during the next term of office. Moreover, it is not correct that the rotation of the Science Policy PPS would take place before its reform. The integration of the PPS into the FPS Economy is accompanied by the reform and cannot therefore be seen as a separate movement. Currently, no specific time has been set for the dissection of the Science Policy PPS in the FPS Economy. The integration of the POD into the FOD also does not necessarily mean that the physical integration must be carried out immediately. Integration will allow the Science Policy PPS to benefit from certain economies of scale. However, the greatest profit lies rather in the synergies in terms of quality of processes and decision-making. I am thinking here of the current shared management of Airbus or MYRRHA, a better alignment of economic and scientific indicators. In the space sector in particular, I have put forward an alternative proposal on the basis of criticism of my predecessor's proposal. That proposal is currently under discussion. I have already consulted the various actors on this issue. Also with l'Union Wallonne des Entreprises I will meet soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u21	Mr President, I take note of the reply of the Secretary of State. There are studies, but we would like to be able to consult them. Madam Secretary of State, you didn't tell me if we could have them. On the other hand, I note that you are going to meet the Walloon Union of Enterprises; you have not yet done so. In addition, there are still many outstanding issues and negotiations, but you have suggested to me that reform would be achieved before the end of this legislature. I guess we'll have a chance to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u22	Madam Secretary of State, this is more of a suggestion than a question about the new AISBL Polar Institute. She came to me as a result of our discussions on the bill authorizing the creation of the BBLAIS and as part of my analysis of the proposed new Code of Companies and Associations. In Project 3047, you use a complicated system of governance to ensure that the interests of the State are well represented. The Polar Institute consists solely of members appointed on a proposal from the federal government. In the future, other Belgian, foreign and/or international scientific authorities or institutions may be admitted as a member. At least half of the members will be Belgian. The Polar Institute will be run by a board of directors of which at least half of the directors are elected from lists of candidates proposed by the Belgian members. A maximum of half of the total number of directors will be elected on the basis of lists of candidates proposed by foreign members. In addition, the King will appoint a government commissioner, who will have the power to suspend any decision of the board of directors contrary to the law or resulting in an impact on the federal budget or contribution to the Polar Institute, in accordance with the terms and conditions laid down by the King. The Government Commissioner is not a director, but will attend meetings of the Board of Directors. Madam Secretary of State, the government appoints Belgian members who propose the members of the board of directors. The basic assumption is therefore that a Belgian will necessarily defend the interests of his State and not of the particular Belgian interests or of another country. But nothing is less secure. The more the number of Belgian nationals among the members and on the board of directors is multiplied in order to compensate for a possible increase in foreign members, the more likely the State is to be represented by someone who does not have the interests of the State at heart. However, in order to get out of this dynamic of multiplication of Belgian members, we could resort to the multiple vote that the 1921 law and the future Code of Companies and Associations allow. Madam Secretary of State, why not use the possibility of multiple voting in the governance bodies of the Polar Institute in order to ensure a true representation of the interests of the State?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u23	Thank you for your question, Mr de Lamotte, and also for your interest in the polar base file. I would also like to thank you for suggesting that the proper defence of the interests of the state is important. Consequently, the draft statutes also provided for a majority of Belgian members, both in the general meeting and in the board of directors. This provision followed directly from Article 2 of the Act, as approved by the Chamber on 8 July 2018. Multiple voting rights may be complementary in this respect, but in the current situation I do not think that this is necessary and even an additional complication. As you know, the establishment of the Ivzw is currently under way. I have invited my fellow ministers to make a presentation to the founding members. I also intend to present the dossier to the Council of Ministers in the near future, so that the founding members can submit the statutes as soon as possible. My intention is to get the Polar Institute operational on 1 January 2019. The first assignment of the Pool Institute will of course be the continuation of the correct organisation of the BELARE campaign 2018-2019. In parallel, however, any foreign partners will be sought. In the past, this committee has already called for a genuine internationalisation of the Ivzw. For any foreign partners, the current system seems more attractive to me than a system with multiple voting rights. The current statutes provide for the Federal Government to designate at least six members, thus representing the departments involved in the South Pole Base. I suspect that it will be some time before a situation will arise in which more foreign partners will have joined the Poolsitute. At that time, however, an amendment of the statutes can still be made, at least a legal basis being created for this. Not so long ago, I received the Swiss Minister. Of course, I was a good ambassador and during the conversation I brought to the attention of the South Pole Base.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u24	Madam Secretary of State, thank you because you answered my question, which was rather a suggestion. Be aware that we are always attentive to the continued implementation of this AISBL. I understand that this would be the case on January 1, 2019. I will read the Belgian Monitor and the annexes with great interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u25	I have forgotten to point out to you that questions Nos 26367 and 26643 by Caroline Cassart-Mailleux are transformed into written questions. The same is true of Mr Peter Vanvelthoven's question No 25940.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u26	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, my question concerns the budgetary restrictions imposed on the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences of Belgium. On 25 August, the operational director of the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences in Belgium was sounding the alarm on the stage of the RTBF television news. This scientist whose world reputation is no longer to be done, spoke of public budget restrictions "dramatic and dangerous for research". It denounces restrictions on staff, on the operation and the prohibition of access to financial reserves. Like many others, he believes that today the Federal Science Policy is truly "threatened" and that, in the absence of refinancing, it is the whole scientific policy that will have to "put the key under the mat". For example, he announced that his department would have to separate itself from several highly qualified young researchers. This brings us back to the policy pursued in recent years, because unfortunately this testimony is as alarming as it is foreseeable. In the discussions of the policy notes, there was much debate about the willingness to dismantle federal scientific institutions, about budget cuts, while our science policy was known for its excellence. The fear of the scientific community, which I want to relay in this question, is that damage will be caused and felt for several more years. So, Madam Secretary of State, let me ask you the following questions: how do you react to the alarm screams of renowned scientists who depend on your administration? Do you confirm that the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences will not be able to renew the contracts of qualified researchers? How many people, if any, are affected by this measure? There is also a paradox on which I would like to hear you: while you claim to want to give federal scientific institutions greater independence, how do you justify that these institutions should be restricted to their own financial reserves? That seems contradictory to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u27	Mr. President, Mr. Delizée, thank you for your question. In fact, federal public services, including federal scientific institutions (FSIs), must take a series of cost-saving measures. I certainly do not deny that this is not always pleasant, but allow me to oppose this criticism in some respects. The Royal Institute of Natural Sciences of Belgium (IRSBN) has only 25% statutory researchers. The others were generally paid for in externally funded research projects. The savings imposed lead to a selective recruitment and replacement policy. The figures in the annual report show a reduction in the percentage of statutory staff. Most of these functions are administrative and technical. For this reason, in preparing the Royal Decree of 15 April 2018, I ensured that the ESFs have a high degree of autonomy and are particularly flexible in the management of their appropriations. As of 1 January, staff credits are included in the TFS allocations. Institutions will receive funding from a single source and will be able to allocate it according to their needs. This royal decree also relaxes the procedures, which makes it possible to allocate available resources more efficiently. According to the calculations of the IRSBN, the staff resources used in 2017 amounted to 700,279 euros, out of a total appropriation of 11,012,901 euros. Resources allocated could not be used. Thanks to the relaxation of the rules, the IRSBN has already been able to use EUR 483,086 this year in addition to January to September. As I have already said, the majority of researchers have contractual status and have been engaged in externally funded projects. In recent years, several research programmes have been completed. Thus, the centres of interuniversity attraction have been transferred to the Communities. The additional research programmes, which were based on a legal basis that had become obsolete, were dissolved. That's why I've also pitched on a new generation of support and research programs for BSEs. I am referring in particular to the EDFWIN programme. In the very near future, the decree implementing this programme will be signed by the King and published in the Belgian Monitor, a programme which will represent real support for research within this ESF. In the first three years alone, the IRSNB would be able to hire 12 additional researchers at a rate of 125,000 per person per year. To put these figures in perspective, in 2014, the IRSNB received 140 000 as a total allocation of FSEs through the "Supplementary Researchers" programme. I therefore believe that this government and I are clearly demonstrating that we are indeed involved in scientific research at the federal level. Finally, with respect to blocking the historical reserves of the FSEs, this is a federal government decision that applies to all federal public services and therefore also to FSEs. This decision was taken within the framework of European budgetary policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic965x.u28	Madam Secretary of State, I am not sure that the scientists will be reassured by your answer. However, since it contains figures and other complex information, I will allow myself to read it again. Overall, you confirm the savings announced. This is not pleasant, because it has an impact on the programmes. You also indicate that external funding is coming to an end. Perhaps the researchers have reached the end of a period of recruitment. This is why it is important to find other funding avenues, as well as new projects and niches. The Government's decision to freeze reservations somewhat contradicts the desire to give the persons concerned autonomy. In any case, we will not go further today, but I will read your answer carefully.
