ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u1	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing with the third, final part, an exchange of views with the Minister on the file on the replacement of the F-16s. I propose that the Minister be given an explanation first. All questions submitted in this connection will then be examined. After that, other questioners can join in.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u2	Madam President, would it be possible, for the benefit of my fellow Members, to first explain the new information that we have, and which we believe is very important, so that colleagues know about this information before they make their intervention and whether they can take it into account or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u3	Madam President, I will complete your remarks by stating that I had also tabled a question on whistleblowers, a subject which, in the light of the events of recent days, could be part of today's debate. Therefore, I would like my question to be included in the debate and in the exchange with the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u4	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, your question can simply go along with the debate. That's no problem at all. Mr van der Maelen, I suspect that you are the first questioner anyway, because I will not ask my question. After 22 hours of hearings, I received sufficient answers. Mr Van Hees is not present, so you will be the first questioner in any case. I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it may be useful to get this straight first. For that, I have a presentation, in which you will be able to follow what everything is right, for those who are more visually set up. You have also been able to see a number of things in Annex 2 to the audit report of the Federal Internal Audit Service. This has already been discussed in the Defence Committee or in the Army Procurement Committee. The F-16 replacement file was initiated under the previous government. It was in June 2014 that he decided to launch a request for information (RFI) to a number of state agencies. The government agreement states: "The government will make a decision that will allow Belgium to retain for the long term a hunting and bombing capability in view of the announced end of life of the current F-16." At the end of 2014, the ACCaP team was formed within the Defence Staff. We then discussed the subject and the RFI at the Defence Committee meetings on January 7 and 21, 2015. At that time, I also began work on the development of a strategic defence plan. On 22 December 2015, the government decided to replace the F-16 with 34 fighter aircraft on the basis of the proposed level of ambition, namely 6 permanently deployable aircraft for the execution of expeditionary tasks and 2 aircraft for the air defence task on the basis of a binational division of the role quick reaction Alert (QRA) between Belgium and the Netherlands. On 13 January 2016, I presented my draft strategic plan to you in committee. The replacement of the F-16s and the level of ambition for air combat capability were an integral part of it. Dear committee members, you held a hearing in this committee with Colonel Van Pee, the head of the ACAP team, on 24 February 2016. During 2016 you organised several sessions with the state agencies, which responded to your request for an exchange of views with them. On 29 June 2016, the Council of Ministers instructed me to concrete the Strategic Vision. The preamble to the Strategic Vision clearly refers to the Government's decision of 22 December 2015 and states that I have the mandate to launch a number of public contracts, including the future fighter planes. Subsequently, I asked the government to approve the process for the four major Strategic Vision programs, including the VACaP program. I received government approval on July 20, 2016. Prior to the launch of the first public procurement, I wanted to start the process of adapting a military programming law for investments. The Council of Ministers approved the draft military programming bill on 20 October 2016. The House passed the law on 11 May 2017 after two sittings in this committee. The schedule to this Act clearly sets out the amount provided for the replacement of F-16s. In the meantime, I have also used this period to propose a new concept to the government, a concept that reflects the use of Article 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This allows us to impose an obligation on the applicant suppliers to provide for "something" that benefits Belgian safety requirements. This does not necessarily have to be of an economic nature, because such an obligation does not allow for European regulation. The Council of Ministers approved that concept on 28 October 2016. Your committee held a hearing on 23 November 2016 with General Marc Compernol, the Chief of Defense, on the Strategic Vision for Defence, which also discussed the replacement of the F-16s. On March 17, 2017, I finally submitted the application "preliminary agreement for the replacement of the F-16" to the Council of Ministers, not without first submitting the file to the Army Procurement Commission. This committee meeting took place on 8 March 2017. Then there was the exchange of views in October 2017, following the French response to the RfGP. I do not think I should repeat the dates of the various hearings and exchanges of views in recent weeks. On the basis of the military programming law, passed by the Chamber on 11 May 2017, the government has taken over, in the draft general expenditure budget for 2018, the commitment appropriations for programmes whose contract is expected to be signed in 2018, this time in current euros. The budget law was presented in the Defence Committee and adopted by the Chamber in plenary session at the end of December 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, all this to tell you that there has been a lot of discussion about the file on the replacement of the F-16 in this Chamber. I myself and the people around me didn't go ice in one night. All decisions and approvals point to the path we have taken and which we are pursuing. A second element I would like to make in this introduction is audits and internal investigations. Immediately after the facts became known to me, I not only asked the Defense Department to ask for further clarification from Lockheed Martin and from the F-16 System Programme Office (SPO) which you heard in committee, but I also asked for an internal investigation. Steps were also taken to examine how the communication had gone exactly or had not gone through external research. The auditors of the Federal Internal Audit Service (FIA) and the researchers of Defence have proposed a number of recommendations. I sent a letter to the Chief of Defense on April 16th of this year. I asked him to make sure within the week that the authorization management for access to the various databases would be up-to-date. I also asked him to ensure that, in the short term, every defence officer is informed of the integrity infringement procedure, i.e. the whistleblower system. I have requested an action plan, within one month, for the other recommendations included in the audit and investigation reports. On April 27, 2018, the Chief of Defence informed me that the necessary actions had been taken in response to my April 16 note. Thus, the Inspectorate General's site has been adapted to emphasize the procedure to be followed in the event of an infringement of integrity. A first report on the measures taken will be completed by the end of May. Let's go back to the replacement market. The government contract for the replacement of the F-16 is the realisation of the government's will to have air combat capacity in the future. The period from 2023 to 2028 is the most realistic period for the replacement for the following reasons. First of all, during that period, our aircraft arrive at their 8 000 hours of flight time, which, according to the manufacturer, is the limit for airworthiness. Secondly, as time passes, the operational relevance of the devices decreases. We note that our traditional partners in the Multinational Fighter Program (MNFP) have chosen to replace them. This means that we will not be able to call on them. These are the partners with which we have always worked, the main ones being the Netherlands, Norway and Denmark. Finally, the market currently offers a choice between devices. That could be different in a couple of years. What have I memorized from the various hearings? First of all, the Lockheed Martin memos are just about the structure. So they're not saying anything about the rest of the plane. Some here in the Chamber say even today that they are incredibly important documents. They are also in the context of the monitoring of the airworthiness of our aircraft. However, they are not about a concrete extension of the F-16. We find that the operational relevance of the weapons system is deteriorating today. We have taken note of the statement, here in committee, that a long extension, such as the United States, which applies to their Block-30 type and beyond, is not feasible for Block-15 type aircraft, so the devices we have at our disposal. We have also established that the personnel are not sufficiently familiar with the whistleblower scheme in the Defense Department. However, I have just mentioned this. In the meantime, I believe that everyone agrees that the so-called long life extension, the hard SLEP, is no longer a piste that we would walk with our Belgian F-16. Then the question arises as to what a short extension based on the equivalent flying hours could mean, which means that the evolution of the structure must be followed on the basis of equivalent flying hours instead of actual flying hours. The first requirement for this is that we can measure the impact of its use on the structure. The memo by Lockheed Martin has already mentioned a few things about this. In other words, all aircraft must be fitted with recorders or measuring devices or be equipped to measure the evolution of the structure. If we proceed to such a measurement of all appliances, they must be ordered and installed on all aircraft. It will soon be 2020 before we can effectively start the measurements. In the Committee on Defence, Lockheed Martin stated that the complete historical data is not necessary, but that an extrapolation could be made on the basis of measurements. The company has also stated here in committee that at least three years should be continuously measured for this purpose. Today, that does not appear in the technical documents in that way. Since Lockheed Martin indicated that himself, we expect the company to be able to do so. However, the three-year deadline was not exceeded, which was clear to me. So at the moment when the data we need to verify whether a life extension of our F-16s is actually possible in one way or another, we will be able to be effective by 2023. At that time we will be able to determine which aircraft may or may not be eligible for longer flight or longer operational use. That is what we are talking about in the end. If at that time the results of the measurements are disappointing, Belgium will lose its air combat capacity over the next six years. It will then be too late to replace it in the short term. Can the readings fail? That's right, they can be very disappointing. In recent years, the Belgian Air Component has been used frequently in operations. It turns out that just as a result of those surgeries, the metal fatigue of our F-16s has increased less than could be expected. The question arises as to whether the Air Component will be used equally frequently in the coming years. I don't know. I do know that we did not include F-16s in the 2018 Operation Plan, except for our contribution to the Baltic Enhanced Air Policing operation. Once again, I hope that our aircraft will only be needed to train our pilots and therefore will not have to be deployed. The hearings have shown that the operationality of the Belgian F-16s is waning. Belgium will therefore be less applied for participation in international operations. I would ask you to take a very close look at the slide that we will now be showing. Our technicians increasingly identify problems with the structure, with cracks on the one hand and corrosion on the other. Corrosion is a consequence of age, so it's just there. That can be remedied. An old-timer can also continue to be patched up. The cracks are a different pair of sleeves. The slide shows the evolution of the number of points measured further since 2008. At the time of periodic maintenance, so many more points are effectively checked. How do we check multiple points? The SPO, which has been discussed here in committee, collects data from all used F-16s around the world. As soon as one finds a problem somewhere, it is made known immediately, so that everyone can follow the relevant issue and then communicate it to Lockheed Martin, the problem is evaluated and it is investigated how it can be resolved. You will see an increase from 30 measuring points in 2008 to more than 140 in 2017. According to the current planning for the replacement of the F-16s, we will be flying with the current F-16s for another ten years. People always want it to appear here as if there will suddenly be other aircraft on our base tomorrow. That is not the case. We will continue for another 10 years with the F-16s that are here today. Of course, the measurements may not be so bad, but what happens then? If we switch to equivalent flying hours and fly a few years longer, we will exceed the 8,000 actual flying hours. I do not know what you have heard, but I read in the committee's report that it is written in such a way that Lockheed Martin will give an opinion on the deployment of the F-16 beyond 8 000 hours. It is therefore a matter of advice. The Belgian military airworthiness authority should convert that advice into certification. That certification is at that point in time that maintenance policy needs to be changed in such a way that a strict follow-up is possible beyond a point that has not yet been exceeded today. On the operational level, we are not ready. So far, we've only talked about the structure. In order to remain operationally relevant and therefore have aircraft with which we can also effectively do something, several programmes, such as the Commonity and Interoperability Consolidation Program (CICP) launched in 2017 have always been in place. Some adjustments are also planned in 2022 and 2024. It shall be possible to ensure the operational relevance of the devices up to 2028 until the last F-16 has been replaced. If we decide to go beyond 2028 then, as was stated here in committee by your invited speakers from among others the US delegation, there will be a need for an operational adjustment, which is no less. One of the speakers said, "You're talking billions, not millions." Meanwhile, we have obtained additional information from Lockheed with an estimate of $1 billion. If you are asking me today to make a comparison on the basis of the data received from the RfGP with potential scenarios, then I have to answer you that this is not possible. Neither the law on public procurement nor the deontology of public procurement allows such a comparison, especially as long as the procedure runs. Nevertheless, given its general relevance, I shall provide you with the following information in response to a specific question put by Mr Van der Maelen. I ask you to be very attentive for the next ten minutes. You will see some figures that you already know pass, but also a lot of figures that you do not know today. The tables I will present will eventually start from the budgetary estimate presented here in committee by Colonel Van Pee in February 2016, following your exchange of views with him. These figures were based on the request for information at the time. As regards the part of investments, it is the amounts that have been re-established in both the Act on Military Programming and the General Expenditure Budget for the year 2018. I'm gonna give you a lesson in budgetary engineering. I draw your attention to the fact that all the amounts I am going to present to you are expressed in constant euros 2015, so without any correction for price developments. This was also the case in February 2016 and Colonel Van Pee explained, at the time, the difference between constant euros and current euros during his audition. We use constant euros to allow us to compare the amounts over time and we need a calculation in current euros to determine the amount of the budget commitment. For example, the delegation of the United States cited the amount of $1 billion for the operational update. 1 billion dollars is worth today 833 million euros current and 700 million euros constant value 2015. I hope it's clear. I'll go through the numbers with you. Let's start with Colonel Van Pee's original painting of February 2016. It contains an amount that is sometimes misused here to create the perception of the population that budgets are being pushed up. In each table I will present you there is a cost section attached to the F-16 itself, a cost section associated with the follow-up of the F-16 and a cost section associated with the weapon system, regardless of the type of aircraft used. For each aircraft we distinguish the investment costs, operating costs and personnel costs. The operating costs are more than just maintenance, which includes fuel consumption. For part F-16, the investment concerns EUR 67 million. This is the amount set out in the Strategic Vision for the latest F-16 updates to maintain operationality until 2028. I'm saying 2028. Part of this was already presented in the Military Purchases Commission, notably on 24 May 2017, for an amount of $41 million. The file includes the installation of STATCOM, a new Helmet-MountedCueingSystem, the renovation of the Sniper Pot, an update of the software and the renewal of a missile warning capacity. There are still 26 million euros planned, divided into two phases for the period up to 2024. As regards operation, this is the cost of maintenance and implementation for an average of EUR 77 million per full year. For the transition period, the operating costs of the F-16s are gradually replaced by the operating costs of the new aircraft. I'll show you this evolution on the slide. For the F-16s, from 77 million in 2023 to 17 million in 2028 for the ten F-16s that will remain at that time. Direct personnel are defined as personnel in direct contact with F-16s at air bases, e.g. pilots and mechanics. Here too, during the transition period, one gradually moves from one plane to another according to the picture you see on the screen. The direct staff costs of the F-16s amount to EUR 347 million for the period up to 2030. I now turn to the successor of the F-16. For the direct cost of personnel, I refer to the slide. That's the line "successor" of the table on the previous slide. We are giving a little additional information on how these amounts are built up. The amount for the period up to 2030 shall be the sum of the amounts shown in the table. As of 2031 a cost of 45.4 million per year was retained. The next slide gives a detail of the operating cost. As I said, at the present stage of the government contract, I cannot give figures on the operating costs of the F-35 and the Typhoon. On the basis of the request for information, an annual operating cost of 140.4 million euros was included. The costs are gradually built up, as the aircraft are delivered, in the same way as the operating costs for the F-16 are reduced. This represents EUR 1.376 billion for the period up to 2030 and EUR 3.930 billion for the period up to 2058. You'll recognize the investment cost of 3.5 billion from the military programming law. 548 million euros were estimated for upgrades of the new aircraft between 2031 and 2058. The indirect cost of personnel is for the staff of the air base that does not have a direct link to the aircraft; all the personnel, so to speak, are needed to run a base, such as surveillance, maintenance, kitchen etc. You will find the cost again on the slide until 2030. This amounts to EUR 700 million. The cost from 2031 is the continuation until 2058 of the amount estimated for 2030, namely EUR 1,491 billion. I will end the detail of the first table with the two bottom lines, namely aid equipment and infrastructure. The aid equipment is all the equipment other than the aircraft necessary to keep an air base operational and running. Think, for example, of fire-fighting facilities. For this purpose, EUR 240 million was estimated. For infrastructure, the amount of EUR 620 million is the sum of EUR 200 million of investment expenditure and EUR 420 million of operating costs for the period up to 2058, covering energy expenditure, maintenance of buildings and roads, cleaning contracts, etc. In a second table you will find the part of the costs from the first table relating to the period up to 2036. That is the period which should be taken into account for the extension of the life required by the opposition and therefore a deferred replacement. So I want to be clear: there are no new figures, but the figures for the period 2018-2030 are divided into two columns. There is the period 2019-2022 and the transition period 2023-2030. A third column covers the period 2031-2036. This table is therefore limited until 2036. The cost of the last update of the F-16s is subdivided between the part until 2022 and the consecutive part, namely 51 million and 16 million respectively. As far as the cost of operating is concerned, it is three times 77 million – that is a figure you recognize – and thus 308 million until 2022. Then the amount is displayed on the slide. The total remains, of course, 620 million euros. The cost subdivision for direct personnel, both for F-16s and for the successor of F-16s, is shown on the slide. Again, the totals remain unchanged: 347 million for the F-16 and 232 million for the successor. Secondly, as regards the operating and investment costs of the successor, the amounts were determined on the pro rata basis of the number of years, i.e. six until 2036. For indirect staff, the cost is not linked to the transition, but simply divided over three periods. Finally, costs for equipment and infrastructure were recalculated on the basis of the number of years. We come, respectively, to 108 and 279 million euros. I come back to the full picture: you see that the total for the period amounts to EUR 8 805 million. Let us now turn to the third table: the replacement of the F-16s delayed by six years, which will allow us to compare the scenarios, as requested by our colleague Mr. Van der Maelen. First, on the F-16. Of the 67 million investments in the first table, 51 are left, because the remaining 16 million are part of the new line of operational upgrade announced and requested by the speakers in this House. So those 16 million were incorporated into it. The cost of purchasing the new measuring devices for all aircraft is estimated at 10 million. That amount was also put forward here in committee. We assume that these measuring devices can be installed as a result of maintenance and that there is no specific cost associated with the installation of these devices. The operational upgrade mentioned was indicated here by the US delegation during the hearing and was also mentioned by them in their letter of 5 April. On the slide you will see a list of what they all provide. The letter which I received from them and which I believe you have also received, mentions a price of USD 1 billion. As explained above, 1 billion dollars is 833 million currents. Deflated to constant euro 2015 gives that 700 million euros you will find in the table. We keep the operating costs of the F-16 at 77 million euros on an annual basis. This is extended for six years to a possible new transition period, which would start in 2029. In doing so, however, you must consider that the older the equipment becomes, the higher the maintenance costs in principle. For the ease of the count, I'll keep it here at 77 million. Remember the slide I showed you earlier, with the number of measuring points checked today, and the number of interventions specifically made on the basis of new data, as indicated here in the committee on our aircraft staying in for longer maintenance and so on. However, we are assuming 77 million as it used to be, and that is going to be EUR 462 million for six years. The amount for the operation and the transition period is passed on in time, as was previously planned. This will only start in 2029. That is EUR 312 million. Whether there will also be additional costs to strengthen the structure and to carry out additional maintenance for the engines that also have to remain in service for six years, we will leave them in the middle for the time being. As far as the structure is concerned, the measurements will show exactly what will be needed. In my 2015 note, which I submitted to my colleagues in the government, a post was already provided for this, but today I say that we will wait for the measurements. However, the fact that there would be no cost at all for structural adjustments and engine seems very unlikely to me. But to allow a simple comparison, we leave them blank. For these aspects, however, the overall costs would increase, as is clear to everyone, I believe. Direct personnel costs were also distributed among the DPO. The costs until 2022 remain the same as in the first scenario, i.e. EUR 203 million. The costs estimated for the new aircraft will be transferred to 2029, but the costs for the further operation of the F-16s will have to be adjusted for six years. These costs amount to EUR 299 million. For the successor of the F-16 we also count on operating costs of 140 million per year, as you know the average of the data we could get from the RFI. Again, it is only about a shift in time because the transition starts six years later. These are not costs that are being saved, they are costs that are being postponed. For the investment in a new plane, we take back the amount of the Strategic Vision: 3.5 billion, but from 2029 instead of 2023. May I make the observation that the market situation could be completely different in 2029 than in 2017? If we estimate that investment at EUR 3.5 billion for 2029, that is an estimate that should certainly be taken with a grain of salt. But, again, for comparison reasons, we keep them that way. Colleagues, this brings us, in the case of the choice of continuing with the F-16, and being operational with it, to a total of 9 077 000 000 for the period up to 2036. I invite you to compare that amount with the amount on the screen here, the amount initially foreseen for the replacement. I'm gonna go over the differences again. The 16 million included in the operational upgrade, the upgrade itself, the shifts in operating and personnel costs, results in a more edition of, regardless of how much you wish to complete, 271 or 272 million over the given period in the event of an extension of lifespan before switching to replacement. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude my introduction. I asked in 2015 whether there was a possibility, a real and feasible option, to postpone our choice. I was presented with figures at the time. We have produced a report in which it was clear that this too is a choice that entails financial commitments. It is also true that today we have absolutely no certainty about the possible continuation of the operational deployment after the planned 8 000 hour period. We will not be able to comment on this until all the measurement data arrives when they need to be inside. In the calculation, which we have been kind enough to make in response to Mr Van der Maelen's question, we find that there is also no financial benefit to be derived from postponing the choice. We are absolutely not sure that it would be technically feasible to remain operational for longer. We are absolutely not sure that the budgets we are considering today regarding the investment cost of replacing air combat capacity will continue to be met in this way. And we note that, even if we take the assumption that some people in this Chamber are still defending wrongly everywhere, namely that we can continue without having to make effective use of the structures, engines and such investments, there is no financial incentive to postpone a decision. I am trying to be a responsible politician who takes our international commitments seriously and who not only says that we need a defence but also that there must necessarily be something about it after 35 years, which is about resources, makes it clear that a decision must be taken at some point. Well, if you ask my opinion, the time has come for the government to take a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, after hearing the Minister's explanation, it is time for a round of questions. I shall first give the floor to Mr Van der Maelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u7	Mr Minister, first of all I would like to ask you a question on which I would like you to answer 'yes' or 'no' immediately, because the rest of my speech depends on that. On 18 September 2017, did you receive an e-mail stating, first, that the procedure for replacing the F-16 should be suspended; secondly, that there is insufficient basis for any decision in the F-16 file; thirdly, that an upgrade of the F-16s would be possible to allow them to fly longer; fourthly, in which they are asked not to promote any further decision in the file? Minister, did you receive this e-mail: yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u8	Mr van der Maelen, I note that you are making an intriguing effort to come up with what you call extremely important documents, without indicating who sent them, in what capacity, with what title, with what content and to whom exactly they were addressed, in such a way that I cannot possibly answer your question. I searched my files because I did suspect that you would ask another one of those questions. Last time, you managed to turn a mosquito into an elephant. You pumped a balloon into unreal proportions. I will not answer your question without you showing me that e-mail. I didn't find him. Can I see it now?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u9	Minister, I am not going to give it to you, because I too must protect my sources. I will read to you what is in the mail, which was sent on Monday 18 September 2017 at 19.04 p.m., addressed to Lieutenant General Claude Van de Voorde, and sent in cc to Steven Vandeput, with the subject "replacement F-16 confidential." I read: 'Ladies and gentlemen, I can respond positively to your request to suspend the proposed replacement of the F-16 by the Air Force staff. There is currently insufficient basis for any decision. There are probability calculations made by Lockheed Martin. It is perfectly possible to upgrade our F-16s, as is programmed elsewhere. Mr. Lt. Col. Decrop, commissioned by Colonel-engineer Van Pee (Lockheedfan), is responsible for the study coordination and the synthesis report. I propose to wait for these results and not to promote a decision in the meantime." The recipient of that e-mail was Lieutenant General Claude Van de Voorde, in cc state Steven Vandeput. Mr Minister, that e-mail and the information contained in that e-mail are at odds with what you have said here for years, months and weeks. On March 20, you presented yourself as a victim of elements in the Army Summit that did not send you information about Lockheed Martin studies on a possible extension of the F-16. That e-mail proves that you were informed by 18 September 2017 at the latest. I have further questions for you. I hope you will answer that question. What did you do with that e-mail? What was your reaction? Did you answer the e-mail? Have you convened meetings to evaluate the information in the mail? Have you informed your government partners of what was proposed by a high military level, namely to suspend the procedure and await the renewal studies? The following question is crucial for the entire credibility of your plan to request audit reports after 20 March. Mr Minister, why didn't this e-mail come up during the internal audit, self-examination at the Department of Defense, or during the disabled external audit, which is still in the period examined by the investigators? Did you, as advised, wait for the results of Lockheed Martin's probability study? Has a study been prepared by the Belgian army? If so, where is the study? Why did you or didn't you take that into account? You have to give us some clarity. You just said you were a responsible minister. For me, it is part of a responsible minister who gives Parliament correct and complete information. You have long enough thought that we are sitting here in a lie palace and that you can explain here anything, that you can deny here that the army summit has informed you. I would advise the majority of Members to consider very carefully whether they can continue to accept that they have been cheated by this minister, that they have not been given information they, like Parliament, were entitled to. I remember from that e-mail that you withheld information from the Chamber, but I also learn that not only did you not tell the full truth. After all, people from the top of the army have also appeared in the Chamber who have not told us the truth either. Opposition members have a duty to control the government, but also majority members of parliament have a duty to verify that such important procedures have been carried out correctly and that all information that a minister had was also shared with the Deputy Prime Ministers in the government. I have already announced that the sp.a will ask to be given the opportunity to hear again several officers who have been in the Chamber in the past few weeks, and we want to hear them under oath. We want to hear them under oath, because we fear that they have been pressured one by one and have been given military orders to only unload what fits in the stall of those who set up the whole operation. After all, we know that the operation has been going on longer than it is today. I have another mail here from 2012.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u10	Mr Van der Maelen, I certainly did not get that e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u11	You didn't have one?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u12	Mr Van der Maelen, I was not a minister at the time. I can't find the mail from September 19th. I don't think I've had it. You ask why a certain email did not come up in an audit. Maybe that's because that e-mail wasn't sent. Mr Van der Maelen, you refuse to indicate who made the e-mail. Come whisper it in my ear for all I care. At least I can do a serious investigation. However, you keep shouting that certain things were done at a certain time. You are also trying to convince everyone here that your source is the only right and good source and that the rest of the world is bad. I found that during the hearings. If I am not mistaken, you heard 27 people during the hearings. Only one person of the 27 heard confirms your story. That's the only one you think is reliable. Everyone else is liars, incompetent and much more. That game has got to stop. Parliament has its rights. I have every respect for Parliament's rights. I too, and certainly the people I represent here and who again accuse you of lying in Parliament and that is more, are entitled to the truth. In that context, I would therefore ask you to hand over your data. You may even give it to me in private or whisper in my ear. I won't even tell anyone. In that case, however, I can at least see what's going on. However, I would point out that at that time, on the date you quote, Lieutenant General Van de Voorde was not the head of the cabinet in the Ministry of Defence. So it might even be that the mail in question simply did not arrive. You claim an e-mail was sent to Steven Vandeput. What address did Steven Vandeput send it to? What address was that e-mail sent to? Those are already two elements. If the e-mail has not been recovered during the investigation, believe me freely that the investigation has been conducted seriously, it could well be that the e-mail has never been sent. It could be.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u13	Mr President, Minister, it is also possible that the FIA's self-examination and so-called external audit did not go as it should and that the mail was not found.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u14	You're still a professional...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u15	Minister, I would like to ask you one more question. My source tells me there are still e-mails. That is why I would like to ask you if you received emails in addition to the mail of 18 September 2017? It's not about the one source you always refer to, Lieutenant Colonel Decrop, it's about another source. The source I now mention is higher. The person concerned thought he had a duty to inform both the former head of the cabinet and yourself. Mr Minister, if you do not know about this e-mail, are there any other e-mails in which you were informed that an upgrade of the Belgian F-16s is possible, that a lifetime extension should also be investigated? I have the impression that the story that you put up after March 20th, if you were the victim of serious military error, is not correct. In my opinion, you play the game together with the army top from the beginning, from 2014. You have chosen one option, the replacement by the F-35. Everything points to that. I note that you say there are no other e-mails. I would ask you to repeat that loudly in the open microphone so that it is in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u16	Mr van der Maelen, I will say in the micro that, as I have always said, I have no knowledge that I have ever said...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u17	...or written...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u18	...or it has been written that there are relevant studies that show that all of this can just happen. I will repeat that, Mr Van der Maelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u19	Didn't you ever get this e-mail?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u20	Mr van der Maelen, I cannot see that e-mail, so I cannot answer it. I'm telling you, on September 18th, I have my... by the way, you have to make it clear whether it's 18 or 19 September.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u21	18 September 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u22	Well, your President is talking about 19 September at 7.15 p.m., when you say 7.14 p.m., or I don't remember correctly. You may also be able to clarify what you are actually saying. If you do not tell me who sent that mail, I cannot possibly answer if I received it. On 18 September or 19 September 2017, I know about emails about this. I can't find any emails, not even on my computer, because of a possible distress or whatever about the ongoing procedure. I'm really tired of you saying things you don't have any proof for. You are seeing ghosts, Mr Van der Maelen. If you're here to make me or the Defense Staff's intentional proceedings, you can do it. However, let it be clear to the public that they are intentional processes. I have indicated how we have adopted this replacement programme. We have done so after careful consideration, after considering all possible alternatives. We have done so as objectively as possible, with an RfGP never seen it being public for everyone. The participants were free to participate or not. That's the story that's going on today. I know this is hard for you. You guys did it differently. I know. There are others who are tabling motions here to engage in a conversation with a pure partner and forget all the rest. No. This government has said that we have a number of obligations. We've written a Strategic Vision, and we're working it out and rolling it out right now. We do this with an open and transparent procedure, more open and transparent than it has ever been.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u23	Mr Van der Maelen, do you have any specific questions? Otherwise, I would like to give the floor to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u24	Yes, I even have one concrete proposal. The Minister denies that he received that e-mail. I have an e-mail addressed to General Van de Voorde. I suggest that we invite General Van de Voorde here today, if possible later, and take him under oath... that should be done under oath, because that is the only way he can escape orders he has received. He must come here under oath to confirm whether or not he was the recipient of that e-mail. I'm moving on now. After all, it is not the first time that we have seen that the Minister in committee has not told the whole truth. You will recall that I asked a question on 7 February. Defense's self-investigation shows that there was a slight contact with the Minister at the time. Previously, the Minister has always said that his cabinet and he himself knew nothing about studies. On February 6th there was the contact between the staff and your cabinet. So you were already aware at the time. We now re-establish through mail traffic, of which I would like to test the credibility by hearing General Van de Voorde here under oath, that you have been informed for a long time. Mr. Secretary, I note, first of all, that you have never been the victim. Secondly, you knew for months that an extension was possible. Thirdly, you were informed by the Defence Summit. So you knew there were studies. We know that you have intervened twice, or have had to intervene, in the audits. You always reacted very derogatoryly to every critical question from the opposition. I fear that if we could go through the audits, it was clear that this was a set-up to hide you behind it, to dissipate a story once again, after you first accused to the top of the army, shoulder to shoulder with the top of the army. That would be that they had not agreed with each other in a form of conspiracy not to give the information, but that it happened individually. This is obviously a setup. Not you were deceived, Minister, but we, the people, are your coalition partners. Minister, if you do not draw any conclusions from this, I do not know what is needed to make an N-VA minister realize that the Chamber and politics are not a lie palace. Mr Minister, I have one final question to ask you: if this were right, it would really be a combo, as is said in French. Is it true that you have given the order to proceed with the formalization of the decision of the order of the F-35? Did you order the decision to be formalized? Don't pretend now, you just have to follow the foreign press to know that great American pressure is being exerted on Britain, but also on Belgium. If you want to be ready against the NATO summit, the formalisation of the decision to order will begin. You may answer yes or no: have you already given the order to formalize that decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u25	Mr van der Maelen, you said that you would like to take up General Van de Voorde and interrogate him under oath. I can only say that we are not a committee of inquiry and that we cannot question him under oath. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, you have the floor, and you may also include your question on the whistleblower's statute.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u26	Madam President, I am somewhat upset by what Mr Van der Maelen has just said. Since the beginning, the Socialist Group has expressed a great deal of doubt about the internal investigation and the audit. These doubts seem reasonable to me because, obviously, documents are circulating. Have they arrived or not? In any case, they are circulating and there is a deep malaise around this market. I had prepared a series of questions for the minister on the renewal of the F-16s and his presentation. But as long as these doubts are on the table, I do not see the point of asking these questions too much. Indeed, if every time we have an answer, a document tells us that the minister is not telling the truth, we will never get away with it. Madam President, you say that, since we are not a committee of inquiry, we cannot hear Mr. Van de Voorde under oath. Of course, we expected to support the sp.a.'s request. But should we not ask ourselves today whether a committee of inquiry is not necessary? Without this, we will never see it clearly. The various elements of the market will remain unclear. This demonstrates the need for the rapid establishment of a Defence D Committee. The Socialist Group will very quickly table a text along these lines. So I'm not asking my questions because trust is completely broken. I hear the minister saying he didn't get the e-mail. I doubt it. In any case, I do not think that my colleague Van der Maelen invented the e-mail and that he comes out of the documents here without being sure of their veracity. I repeat that we are asking to hear Mr. Van de Voorde under oath. If this is not possible, then we are asking for a suspension to reflect and to discuss the possibility of setting up a committee of inquiry, otherwise it will be prolonged and we will never have the truth in a market of EUR 15 billion, no matter how the market declines.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u27	Minister, the sp.a colleagues have introduced new elements. I believe that we must now get an answer to two questions very quickly. First of all, did you or did you not receive that e-mail? You say no, after 15 minutes of searching. If that mail was classified as confidential, it may have ended up on some confidential network that you don't have access to so quickly, so you can't look up or receive mails on September 18, 2017. You have to do that search in every possible way. You must give us a formal answer to that question. Secondly, I agree with sp.a's request to hear General Van de Voorde again, because he is apparently one of the two recipients of the mail in question. Minister, it is interesting to summarise the evolution of your response to the whole dossier. In the beginning, when Lockheed Martin's studies were leaked, you were always talking about a major error of judgment. You said that you should be informed, but that neither you nor your cabinet were informed. When it became clear that this information had reached the level of the cabinet, it became clear that you had a problem too. A few weeks ago, it proved effective that the information reached the level of the cabinet. There was a "light contact" with Peter Vanbesien at the beginning of February 2018. So the information was already at the level of the cabinet. You have always raised: my cabinet, I am not. You weren't aware of the contact you had with Peter Vanbesien about the studies. However, the mail now also brings the information to you personally. We must now only verify whether or not you received this e-mail. Your line of defense at first was that you didn't know anything about it. Now your line of defense that you might have known about something is certain that your cabinet knew of something, which has been demonstrated in the meantime, but that those studies are not relevant. Of course, that is a communication trick of yours to put off the responsibility of your cabinet in this matter, because if it is not important information, then why should we make it a problem? But you always said at the beginning that your cabinet knew nothing. Meanwhile, we know there's been a light contact. Maybe you were aware of yourself personally. This is therefore becoming an effective problem. We have also learned from the hearings, Minister, that your cabinet intervened in the internal audit at the Ministry of Defence. This has been done up to twice, even during internal audit discussions. There were also hierarchical superiors present in the internal audit discussions. For the external audit not all mail traffic was immediately accessed and also could not verify which mail traffic was deleted and which was not. All this was apparent from the hearings. It is useful to point that out. I would also like, perhaps together with a number of colleagues, to present to you, in relation to General Van de Voorde, one of the two recipients, the following. The testimony of General Van de Voorde during the hearings was hallucinating. This man has been your head of your cabinet from 2014 until the end of June 2017, if I am not mistaken. That is therefore outside the scope of the e-mail in question. On 18 September 2017, he was already in charge of ADIV. Well, your then head of your cabinet has done well to say here that he does not know anything about the purchase procedure and that the contact about the purchase procedure with you, I quote him very discreetly, is happening on your desk without him, the head of the cabinet, being aware of it or being involved in any way. That is a very strange explanation, all the more so because General Van de Voorde also said that he was at no time involved in the creation of the 2015 IKW note. An IKW note is discussed with other cabinets, but the chief of the pilot minister's office in this, namely you, is not aware of the entire IKW note. However, the IKW note already states in 2015 that according to research, the lifetime extension of the F-16 is not really an option. We can ask the question on the basis of which study that statement is made and supported in it. My group and many other groups were very open to the testimony of General Van de Voorde. How is your cabinet organized in this important file, if the man who was your head of your cabinet for more than three years says he doesn't know anything about the IKW note, the possible extension of life, or the replacement procedure? If it is true that he was informed directly on 18 September 2017, then there is a problem. You will also note that if we now decide to extend the lifetime of the F-16s, we will need three years if we are to install all measuring devices, and we will get into trouble. First of all, the forecasts that are now available indicate that the lifetime extension of the F-16s can be achieved, thus understanding the conversion to equivalent flight hours. Those are Lockheed Martin's two studies. All forecasts point in this direction, not in the direction that our aircraft cannot last another six years, just to be clear. On 15 June 2016, Colonel Decrop started e-mailing Defense about the soft and hard SLEP, i.e. the lifespan extension. If we had taken this information seriously by Colonel Decrop in 2016, we would have won two years now and we could have started much earlier with a possible extension of the lifetime by six years. Hence the question of whether you still believe that Parliament should not have known about this type of thing, whether Parliament should not have been able to discuss it in 2016 or 2017 in order to seriously evaluate the trace of a lifetime extension? Finally, do I like to hear about the state of play in the procurement procedure? How do you deal with the reports of technical defects in the two remaining candidates? I hear there is a formal purchasing procedure, but it seems that the people of Dassault Rafale can go to your cabinet in parallel to give their explanations there too. How do you reconcile these two things? You intend to make a decision in the next few months. I also said last time that it will depend on Parliament whether we proceed with the kaduke purchase procedure. We do not have much time left to deal with this in a sensible way and push the reset button. We only have a few months. That's what it comes down to. Madam President, I think my first two questions need to be answered quickly anyway. First of all, did the Minister receive the email of 18 September 2017 via all possible networks? Secondly, we need to hear General van de Voorde, the recipient of that e-mail, again in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u28	Mr Minister, the file on the replacement of the F-16 fighter aircraft still controls the topicality. There have been a number of committee meetings. There have been hearings. Experts have been heard. Today there is a new commotion about an email from September 2017. Madam President, I am addressing you, but also Mr Van der Maelen. Transparency is the key word for me in the file. Mr van der Maelen, I would ask you to make the mail in question available to the members of the committee. As a result of Lockheed Martin's documents, you suggested that we should have all the documents available. You also received them at the committee secretariat. Madam President, I would now ask you and Mr Van der Maelen to make the relevant e-mail available to the committee. We can thus know whether the e-mail was indeed addressed to Mr Van de Voorde and to the Minister. Mr van der Maelen, we have a right to do so. You are always here to say that Parliament must be transparent, that the minister must be transparent and that the members of the majority must be transparent. I therefore ask you to make the information available to us, of course in the appropriate form. Mr Minister, we have heard interesting things in committee over the last few weeks. Two questions had to be answered. First of all, has any information been withheld? I think the answer to that question is yes. Clearly, information has been withheld with the aim of influencing Parliament and politicians. I would like to stress once again that the choices to be made are made by the political world on the basis of information provided by the Defence Staff. In this case, I believe that the Defence Staff has chosen not to pass on all the information, relevant or irrelevant, to Parliament and to the Minister. The second question is of course not insignificant: can the F-16s fly for six years longer or not? The answer is, of course, very different. We need measurements, and of course we do not know what the outcome will be. You've also made a price calculation. However, I do not think the answer to that question is very clear. Finally, I repeat that it would have been better to hold the debate at the beginning of the course. We could have avoided a lot of things. Mr Minister, I come now to my questions. Were you aware of the information contained in that mail at the date mentioned by Mr Crombez and Mr Van der Maelen? Secondly, can you indicate how the government is going to proceed with the dossier? What steps must be taken before a final decision can be taken? What is the timeline to use? Are you convinced that it should be a target to reach a decision on this matter before the end of this legislature? What is your response to the open letter of 3 May from four European ambassadors of the Eurofighter Typhoon? Have you had any reactions in your contacts from your colleagues in NATO and the EU in recent weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u29	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your briefing. Indeed, for the first time, we have heard a presentation in which figures and arguments were given and the substance of the problem addressed. But the great difficulty lies in the fact that your presentation was made in a context where confidence is deeply eroded. In addition, this submission should have taken place from the beginning of this case, namely in 2015. Lockheed Martin's November 2015 documents that were presented to the government should have been sent to us. They should have been presented to Parliament. In addition, many comments were made on these documents. And today, you are presenting us with a version that is still different from the one that was presented a few weeks ago. At the time, we were told that these studies had no interest, whereas now we are told that there is a question of structure. We were also told that it was impossible to envisage an extension even for a few years, that radar could not be placed on the F-16s. Today, you say this is possible, but it has a cost. Mr. Minister, the difficulty lies in being able to determine, among all the versions that have been given to Parliament, what is the right one. I want to say, what a waste! However, this is an important, if not fundamental, issue for your government. You are telling us that we must proceed with the renewal of the F-16s now, because there are too many unknowns if we decide to extend the use of the F-16s and that, in any case, it will finally come back more expensive. Again, this is happening in a context where trust and credibility are seriously eroded. In addition, I can only refer to the various versions that have been given, and in particular to the last e-mail that our colleague is presenting to us today. Two things, Minister! Or you were informed of a whole series of documents, assumptions, emails and, in that case, you – or your cabinet – lied to Parliament. Or you weren't informed, which is just as serious. It is problematic for a Minister of Defence not to be informed by senior officers of basic data on F-16 renewal issues. Because, as we know, some senior officers have knowingly requested that documents not be presented to you. It is at least one version that has been presented to us here in Parliament. Who himself has not been made aware of a series of elements. Either they lied to us in Parliament or they hid some documents from you, but in any case, this time, confidence in this issue is permanently undermined. I therefore believe that you need to make this latest information clear. We need to know where we are. We need to know if you had this information and what information you had about the possibility of delaying the renewal of aircraft. But I come to the fundamental question that we are dealing with today. Should these planes be replaced now? Yes, in your opinion, they must be replaced now for reasons of credibility. You have put your credibility at stake, as well as the reliability of Belgium. I think, unfortunately, that there are so many doubts which have emerged from this dossier that, even if it seems technically reasonable to take a decision quite quickly, politically, the context does not lend itself to a hasty decision. Too many unknowns exist in relation to these elements that are revealed to us so that we can make a decision there now. I therefore ask you the question: is it your intention to take this decision now, before the NATO summit? And is it true that you are going to present a decision to the Council of Ministers? I don't think this is the right time. There are still too many unknowns. We can postpone that decision. Maybe not a few years, but certainly a few months. It does not take symbolic gestures to demonstrate, before the NATO summit, that we will take any decision. I would add that if the idea is to buy an American plane now, then the signal would be politically disastrous. In view of the international scene, when we see how Belgium, Europe and the European Union are dealt with today by the United States, if your intention is to present a positive decision on this plane, it would, in my view, be a political catastrophe, in relation to the ambition we must have on this and on the strategic level, to build our strategic autonomy and to be able to decide on the fate of European security with the Europeans. I have read the press and I also think that the proposal made by France must be studied, in a consistent and detailed manner, more than ever before. I believe that our Prime Minister cannot always say that he is the best friend of the French President and not try to engage with France – unfortunately, there are not many other partners today, this may displease you – and with all those who wish to do so, this European defence capability, this capability for strategic defence autonomy. This is a key political issue. You were also talking about political credibility. In my view, the political credibility of Belgium would be seriously damaged if we were to rush into the purchase of an American plane. I ask you to deepen this exercise which you have begun today and which finally allows us to have some insight into the renewal of this aircraft. I ask you to deepen this exercise with new elements of credibility on the state of your knowledge of certain information, on the fact that from now on you have the control of your army – because you have been left out of your minds – and on such important issues, and on the fact that we are not going to commit ourselves to a purchase that would not correspond in any way to our aspirations and what we are writing, whether it is our Strategic Vision or the Prime Minister's comments on the major security and defence issues in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u30	As has already been said, other questions can be answered. Mr Vandenput, Mr Miller, Mr Hellings, Mr Buysrogge and Mr Top ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I have another question that was not answered at the hearing. Perhaps you could give me an answer. There is the famous report of November 2015 that was classified and that you have distributed here for the hearing unclassified. Which one of your cabinet wrote that and why was it considered classified? I haven't gotten an answer to that yet, but perhaps you can give me that? Minister, my group insists that Lockheed Martin's information in the leaked memos would have been better known by yourself and the CHOD and should have come to Parliament, but should not have stuck with the air force. You yourself said that twice in this committee. That's what the CHOD said here. I think we all agree on that. You will take steps to get such information to you and to Parliament. What did we learn at the hearing, colleagues? We have had more access to a number of things. We have learned that you were not aware, but also that it would be a very complex and very expensive matter to extend our type of aircraft. For those who were still here at 11 p.m., that famous Wednesday night, when Lockheed Martin gave his explanation, and who listened carefully, there is only one conclusion, in particular that it will be expensive and complex. The figures you just gave are also in that direction. What we have also learned is that getting our 8 000 hours of flight time will also be a challenge. This will also require a number of upgrades and additional measuring points. It will be quite a challenge to allow our planes to fly until 2023 or 2029. That is why our group is convinced that the hearings were a confirmation of what we already knew and what the government has already decided that we should replace our F-16s with new aircraft. That is the position of our group. We have launched an RfGP for this purpose. It is also important for us that a new aircraft can last for the next 30 to 40 years and that our pilots can safely and fully carry out their mission with it. The value for money must be considered very carefully. It fascinates me how colleague Van der Maelen from sp.a always gets all kinds of mails. That's what I've said here several times. Today Mr Van der Maelen comes again with an e-mail. Mr van der Maelen, you are calling on us, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to think carefully about whether we can continue to accept this. Well, I'll think about it, if you give me a copy of the mail you're waving with and if you also show the sender of that mail. It's certainly a lieutenant general. I couldn't read the e-mail, but you read it. The e-mail is addressed to Lieutenant General Van de Voorde and you have started reading with "Dear colleague." I therefore conclude that the sender is a lieutenant general; we can be sure of that. So I'll start thinking when you hand over that mail. Mr van der Maelen, I would advise you in turn to try to do as you say. Try to be transparent yourself before demanding transparency from everyone. I would simply do that, Mr Van der Maelen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we regret that this whole thing, which has been going on since mid-March, has a very negative impact and perception on all defence workers. We need to understand that. There has been a lot of media heisa about the fact that some things do not flow to the minister and the CHOD. Well, in the workplace, I have a lot of contact with military personnel in the workplace, and that doesn't seem right. Many people work hard every day within the Defense Department, but they are also confronted with such messages. I think we should take that into account and respect it. I would like to make that observation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u32	Madam President, we spent several hours in committee and participated in a very democratic debate. We received a lot of information and interviewed specialists, including from the United States. The impression that I get from it is that we have returned to the position already defended by my group and which I have expressed on several occasions. Mr Vandenput has just reminded me of a very simple formula: we believe that it is absolutely necessary to replace the F-16s. We want to do this by acquiring an aircraft that has the best value for money. People have drawn up a transparent invitation to tender, according to a procedure which is obviously long, but which will soon be successful. I am pleased that this method has been used by the majority. This indicates a significant difference with previous procedures in similar cases. Some parties have experienced difficulties... Today we are debating with the Minister. Madam President, for my part, I do not have a mole – as in John Le Carré's novels – at the top of the army, which sends e-mails and information to targeted recipients. I have to listen to what Mr. Van der Maelen, our colleague. In French, there is an expression that can characterize him: "He is someone who always knows one more than the Devil". Every time, he'll come with a document but he doesn't want to communicate it. All right! However, my colleague Thiéry had asked him to quote his sources. We're here for now. Other colleagues have spoken of waste. Indeed! But when you make the mess and you do everything you can to get suspicious... I take the term you used, Mr. Dallemagne, but I'm not targeting you. You used an interesting term but you're not the one who wanted to get there! But when we do everything to spoil, that we use formulas like "There is already an operation that has been mounted since, I think, 2012"; "All the army, the state body etc., carries out operations to destabilize a file" (...), I think we want to create an impression of waste. It was heard that the minister and his cabinet would not be informed of different notes, that a whole set of information would escape him, etc. So far, I've heard of a single note that was defended by one person. No other high-level official has come to tell us that this one was worthy of interest. I am a parliamentarian and I listen to specialists. The demonstration is that we are dealing with a track that is considered to be marginal and uninteresting, for various reasons that the minister has just demonstrated in figures today. As Mr. Dallemagne said, it is particularly interesting and enlightening about the cost of a possible extension of our F-16s, compared to the acquisition of new aircraft. Let's sum up all these elements. In my view, it seems to me that it is excellent that the government has decided to proceed through a transparent tendering process, the results of which will soon be forwarded to the Minister. On the basis of the information provided to us today, I assume that all these elements constitute a kind of update of the November 2015 note, which you submitted to Parliament. It can be realized that if the aircraft are extended – which is possible – the cost will ultimately be higher than the cost of acquiring new aircraft. With new aircraft, it's important to ensure the effectiveness of our aircraft and the safety of our pilots for the next few years, which would not be the case if we put our finger on an aircraft extension process. Mr Dallemagne, it is true that at present events around the world make this a difficult geopolitical moment. I believe that, from a geopolitical point of view, every moment is difficult. The procedure that has been put in place by the government is a long, transparent procedure that will succeed. We hope that the results will enable the government to make a decision. It is not written anywhere that the decision must be taken before the NATO summit. It's a possibility. This may be something that needs to be taken into account, but it is not an obligation. In addition, I still ask the opposition to recognize that this government is not composed of people who do not think. There will be the technical conclusions of the tender. I know a little about the few ministers involved, including the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of National Defence, who is represented and who has been carrying the case from the beginning, and the Prime Minister. Knowing them, I am sure that a geopolitical review will be carried out and that the economic benefits will be taken into account in the review of the file. All these elements will come to a conclusion at some point in time. This conclusion, for me, must be the best choice in terms of value for money. It's not about an old car that we maintain, that we can repair, but that's going to cost a lot of money in the garage. This image has been used a lot, but it's not about that. They are combat aircraft occupied by individuals who have training and are confronted with operations during which they endanger their lives. In this context, having read everything and studied the elements that have been transmitted to us through the official channel – not by a mole, I repeat – our group believes that the best solution is the replacement of the current F-16s by planes that will have to be chosen when we have the results of the procedure, obviously taking into account the other geopolitical elements on the basis of which the government will have to make a decision. All options are on the table for now. That is the position of our group, Madam President. I think, having said that, I have not been unpleasant with any of my colleagues. But always being considered as a parliamentarian who does not follow his files, who does not do the work he has to do, and who finally takes liberties with the fundamental values of a democratic parliament, it is really starting to do well!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u33	Mr Miller, it is Parliament's role to question the ministers and to verify that a procedure with such a significant budgetary impact can really be held – as we have been promised – in an open and transparent manner. That's what you just said, that's what the Prime Minister said, that's what the Minister of Defence said from the beginning. Is she? That's the question I'm asking. Is it when the decision to buy 34 fighter bombers is made in December 2015, the Strategic Vision is presented to Parliament in January 2016 and the military programming law, which initiates the Strategic Vision, is passed in October 2017? I recall that when it comes to an open and transparent procedure, it is the geopolitical conditions present in the Strategic Vision that justify the purchase of equipment and not, as was the case here, the purchase of equipment that justifies the Strategic Vision. But you've done things backwards. We heard – for 22 hours! – a series of actors. Minister, since the beginning of this market, I have been asking you about the contacts that Defence has maintained with the companies competing for the market. You answer me regularly, with a very complete file of the contacts maintained. In this regard, during his hearing, Major General Vansina said that he had had a telephone contact with Lockheed Martin – who is indeed a competitor in this market – when he said that he did not understand Lockheed Martin's attitude, who, on the one hand, is applying for the market to sell his F-35 and, on the other hand, sends an extremely comprehensive memo to the Defence which says that the F-16s can be extended. In the answers you have given me, I do not see at any time a telephone contact between the Air Component Chief and Lockheed Martin. However, you have always said that this market would be open and transparent and that you would not hide the contacts maintained by the members of the Defence and the companies competing for this market. Why doesn't the call phone of Major General Vansina, the top officer of the Air Component, appear in your written answer to my questions about contacts? This is important because this telephone conversation clearly implies that, for Major General Vansina, one cannot, on the one hand, present a memo saying that one can extend the F-16s and, on the other, apply to sell 34 F-35s. Let me turn to my second question. During the hearings, we realized the very original and special operation of your firm. General Van de Voorde explained to us that, with respect to the Defence Strategic Vision and the market of $15 billion over 40 years for the replacement of the F-16s, it was kept completely out of the process. That's what he said here and you confirm it. This is very surprising because everything that has worked in a cabinet knows that in Belgium it always works in the following way. When a minister presents a point to the Council of Ministers – in this case the point was presented at the time on the basis of a note to the Council of Ministers in November 2015 – a whole series of intercabinets are followed up with the advisers of the various ministers and vice-prime ministers. The heads of cabinet then deal with points which could not be decided by the advisers and, eventually, it is the Kern or the Council of Ministers who are not doing the job. So you confirm that your chief of staff, General Van de Voorde, was absolutely unaware. My question is, therefore, the following. Who in your cabinet participated in intercabinet meetings and pre-government meetings if not General Van de Voorde? I understand that the reason you claim to have kept Claude Van de Voorde outside of the normal process that works in all regional and federal offices in Belgium was to avoid a suspicion of collusion or favouritism. But the easiest way to avoid this suspicion was not to choose the Air Component Chief as your Chief of Staff! I do not understand why you chose Claude Van de Voorde for something other than his particular competence in aviation and public procurement as the market of the century here. With regard to the substantive issue of this process, you have declassified the November 2015 note and I thank you for that. When you read this note, it appears that on about thirty pages, about ten is dedicated to the scenario of a possible renewal of the F-16 fleet. This means, therefore, that one third of the note used to base the decision of the Council of Ministers was devoted to a scenario that was considered plausible and feasible. It is not the environmental or socialist opposition that says that prolonging the F-16 is possible. This is a scenario that was considered in the note you presented to the Council of Ministers in November 2015. And this is a scenario that is confirmed by a note not by the socialist opposition, not by the environmental opposition, but by Lockheed Martin, the manufacturer of the F-16 itself and, in addition, the manufacturer of the F-35 which is one of the two remaining competitors. So this is not an insignificant scenario. From the moment that one third of the note used to draw up the decision of the Council of Ministers is no longer valid because of a study by the manufacturer himself, should we not at least notify the Council of Ministers and the Committee on Military Procurement? Indeed, a third of the note is invalidated by new information. A third! You spoke in your presentation about the current maturity of the market for replacement. It's really interesting! When we know that the Eurofighter is at the end of life, that the Rafale has not returned an offer and that no F-35 flies in any Air component except in trials, I do not see where the maturity of the market is! In addition, one learns that an important project is under way: that of the Franco-German bomber fighter, potentially European, of which some colleagues, such as Mr Dallemagne, have spoken. I don't see the maturity of the market. I think this is exactly the worst time to buy fighter planes. It would be interesting if you could explain to me what this is about when you talk about "current market maturity". I'm going to the costs. There are extremely disturbing elements. You came back to us with a cost analysis that compares the scenario of a few years extension of the F-16 fleet with that of its replacement today. I'm in the same trouble as the one I found myself in the day you – the majority – brought back a series of three engineers from the United States one evening at 2200 in this room. I was very struck by the difference between Lockheed Martin's report – two reports, in fact, let's not forget it: that of 2017 and that of February 2018 which confirms the hypothesis of a possible renewal...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u34	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u35	No, not at all! The February 2018 report confirms the findings of the 2017 report. I remember a very interesting exchange between my colleague Mr. De Vriendt and one of the engineers – I forgot his name but it was the head of the delegation – who said that if we wanted to extend, we would have to make a whole series of investments, software, etc. Mr. De Vriendt recalled, as you have just done, the very many investments for the renewal of the whole avionics, since the argument of Lockheed Martin's engineer was that there is not only the structure, there is also the avionics. As you recalled, we decided – with you, by the way – in the Military Purchases Committee on 24 May 2017 – I don't know whether this is the decision of the Council of Ministers or the Military Purchases Committee, but no matter what – an investment of 41 million euros for the current fleet of 54 F-16 with a commitment to spend 10 million more in 2021 and 12 million in 2024. This means, therefore, that the argument put forward before us by Lockheed Martin's engineer did not take account of these investments. And so, basically, Lockheed Martin was telling anything. Anything! It ignored an investment which is still colossal for "old cuckoos", of more than 60 million euros, to replace precisely the avionics, the radars and tutti quaanti. We have to stop drowning in the numbers! The investments have been made. And rest assured, Mr. Miller, they've been arranged so that our pilots can fly their aircraft safely. I will conclude with two questions. The email of 18 September 2017 including M. Van der Maelen reported was addressed to Claude Van de Voorde. But it would seem – as you will confirm – that he was no longer your chief of staff since June 2017. Who was your chief of staff the day this e-mail was sent or sent? Had a replacement ever been appointed? If so, who is it? Mr Van der Maelen, it would be interesting if you could tell us whether the e-mail in question was sent to Claude Van de Voorde or to the office of the Minister of Defence. Finally, I have shown that the procedure is tainted not by irregularities, but by a great deal of sulphur. In these circumstances, do you not think that the current procedure should simply be suspended or cancelled?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I thought we were meeting here today to reach a conclusion after the hearing and to be able to put any outstanding questions to the Minister. I have the impression that most of the speakers include in their story the interesting amount of information that was shared with us for 22 hours. However, I cannot say that about every intervention. Colleagues, what have we learned during this long, very interesting hearing? One can fly longer with those planes, that's right. It can be done purely theoretically, but there is, firstly, a lot of money involved and, secondly, one flies with outdated equipment. In fact, we knew that already in 2015, but it was confirmed at the hearing. In addition, and not uninterestingly, we heard from a number of professors that we should not allow our young pilots to fly with outdated devices to be operational, for example against Russia. That's something to think about. Everyone has their own tone in the discourse, but for me our collective security in NATO with the commitment we can make to this is not insignificant. Moreover, should we opt for a lifetime extension, Belgium would be the only country on this beautiful planet where Block-15 aircraft would fly longer than 40 years. That's not uninteresting to take. Then there is the value of the famous notes, the corrected note of Lockheed Martin. This is not about possible life extension but it offers a theoretical model in which the metal fatigue of the device is read. It is absolutely not a question of concluding on this basis that our devices can just get life extension. This is not an integral study of our entire fleet either. During the debates and hearings it became clear that the cabinet was not formally informed of this memo. The CHOD also knew how to say that it wasn't really necessary. This doesn't seem uninteresting to me either. I have two specific questions for you, Minister. First of all, after the ball has started rolling, you have quite immediately placed a number of potential players on inactive. Would you still have put those people, with what you know now, on inactive? Secondly, you also ordered the CHOD to implement the action plan quite immediately. You referred to this briefly in your statement. It seems interesting to me to go into this again, whether at another time or through the CHOD, so that we can find out what improvements are being proposed. Colleagues, the replacement program of the F-16s fits into the Strategic Vision. The replacement program of the F-16s, to the regret of whom it envies, is very transparent and very objective. These are very important principles that we are not laughing about. Our party attaches great importance to this, especially when it comes to a huge dossier. Every bird sings as it is beckoned but 26 of the 27 speakers agreed that the file was going well and actually agreed on the irrelevantness of Lockheed Martin's memo. Except for one speaker. I was also somewhat surprised by an allusion from one of the speakers about the fact that there may be a personal agenda in the person concerned. However, these are statements which I leave to the person who said this at the hearing. One may also wonder why some people support the message of that one person, Mr Decip. This creates an atmosphere of suspicions and lobbyism, in which the word corruption has just not fallen. Apparently, an e-mail popped up again from 18 or 19 September 2017, in which the minister is in cc. We don't have that e-mail, so we can't check it. However, in terms of objectivity and transparency, that seems to me to be relevant, but we do not see this e-mail, let alone that we can assess its content. But to prove what? We have just seen the figures showing whether a neutral reader or listener concludes that the extension of the F-16 is more expensive than replacing the F-16. Yet, at a time when the ACAP team has to play its role, there is apparently another e-mail in full objectivity and independence, in which perhaps there is something else. In the meantime, as expected, additional hearings are also being requested. In fact, there are people who have to come here under oath to make a statement. We do not even have the authority to do that, but that is overlooked for a moment. What has not yet been said, but which we are informed of by e-mail, is that in the meantime there are also interviews being submitted to the Prime Minister. He must therefore also be confronted with this. Moreover, there is also an attempt to create discord within the majority. It is insinuated that the Minister has already ordered that an order link be placed, as if all that could be done. Colleagues, when that memo came out and Colonel Decrop got a megaphone from the opposition, Mr Van der Maelen's attitude could perhaps be interpreted as if I wanted to cause discord in the opposition, which is absolutely not my intention to interpret it as somewhat naive, but I dare not accuse you of that. So let us stick to a political game. It is intellectually unfair, however, to persist stubbornly in this, in the sense of "we have a new e-mail, but you cannot see it." The purchase procedure should continue. The ACAP team must be able to do its job in complete independence. We have learned today that continuing with the F-16 is considerably more expensive than the replacement programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u37	Madam President, Minister, you have given an explanation and discussed and reiterated a number of figures. I come to the discussion of a classified document which you handed over to the committee members on 20 March and which was an important step towards the government's decision. I refer to the majority of my fellow Members, such as Mr De Roover, who unfortunately is not here today, who saw this document as the crucial note on which the government's decision is based. At the previous committee meeting, a hearing was asked to be held with you in order to obtain further information and to be open and transparent. It has been a great quest for us to find out who the author of this note is. We have heard in the previous hearings that Colonel Van Pee and General Debaene are not the authors of this note. We have heard from your head of your cabinet, General Van de Voorde, that he is not the author of this note. My question, which you may be able to answer immediately and which was also raised at the previous committee meeting, is whether the gentlemen who side you are the authors of this note? Can they answer my questions later? Are they, or is one of them, the author of the November 2015 IKW note?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u38	The Minister will reply to your question in the full round of replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u39	I have another question. Is the author of the note in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u40	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u41	Madam President, this is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u42	Madam President, Mr Top, I would like to ask your group colleague here in the first place. I would like to ask her what contacts she had with whom and at what time. I'd like to ask that question. How far do you want to go? How far do you want to go in embarrassing the people who are trying to do good for our society and who are trying to bring files to a successful conclusion? How far do you want to go in there? How many times are you gonna insult all these people? How far are you going to go in there? There has been a clear response from the Prime Minister. It is the minister responsible for his cabinet. The Minister is here to defend his case. If you ask who the author of that document is, I tell you that it is the minister who is the author of that document.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u43	Okay, then you're the author. You take responsibility for this document and the other notes, IKW notes or other documents of your cabinet. That's your answer. Thank you. Minister, I also refer to the March 2015 note entitled General Guidelines MOD, proposed political negotiation paper, Strategic Vision. That note is obviously off your hands, because you said just now that you have the responsibility. One or the other, Minister. Either you're responsible for those notes or you're not. You described this note earlier as a piece of paper, which was in a previous committee. But that note does contain interesting information. The weight of the note increases when it is known that it is the reason for the IKW note of November 2015. Members of the majority also said it, which is the crucial note to make the decision in the government to take further steps on the replacement of the F-16s. It is important to know that that March 2015 note contains information on, for example, the retention of nuclear capacity, for example, in respect of fifth generation aircraft, for example, in respect of an aircraft that is still under development, the development of which has started. That's what the March note says. And this is the starting point for the November 2015 IKW note. That November 2015 note, on which the government has based its decision, contains quite a bit of strange information. I call it weird information, because I don't dare talk about wrong information yet. It is about 30 or perhaps more elements. On the one hand, the note exaggerates the costs for, for example, an upgrade and, on the other hand, minimizes operational capacity. That is why I have some questions about the note. On page 12 of the note there is talk about the technical life extension, which concerns the body of the F-16. The cost of this is estimated at EUR 14 million per unit. This is no less than eight times more expensive than the technical lifetime extension of the American F-16... For the record, it appears from official documents from the Pentagon. There are indeed quite a few differences between our version of the F-16 and the American C/D version, but these are not huge. We have also heard in the hearings that our aircraft have already undergone a lot of adjustments. The question is therefore very specific, Minister. According to the IKW note, we can't make it. I would be ashamed to make a document without footnotes. Now I ask you: where did you get the official figures in the IKW note and on which you, the author of the note, base yourself? The cost of an operational lifetime extension is estimated at €23.8 million per F-16. This is justified on page 13 with a laundry list of upgrades and modernisations to be carried out. In the upgrade program a lot of those things are either planned and/or ordered, or already planned for modernisation, and that from 2017. For the operational lifetime extension, that note takes account of bizarrely high costs. If one compares the EUR 23.8 million per aircraft and the estimate provided by Lockheed Martin to Portugal, the difference is huge. Lockheed Martin charges Portugal 5 million euros per aircraft. For us, this is apparently EUR 23.8 million. In addition, a total of USD 60 million is charged for engineering costs, tests and evaluation. However, the Portuguese fleet is the same Block as ours and is very similar in age. Suppose the comparison is made for an operational extension of our fleet and suppose that the price would be twice as high as the price for the Portuguese, then we will not even get half of the amount in your IKW note. I therefore repeat the question I raised on the previous point. Where is the figure of EUR 23.8 million quoted in the IKW note and on which the government based itself to make the decision? Furthermore, the note either omitted or left out a lot of information, such as the mention on page 2 that the United States Air Force can not provide support to our F-16s for longer than 2034. However, as mentioned here, she herself will fly up to 2048 with 841 F-16s. In addition, not only United States Air Force but also other countries will fly these aircraft until after 2034. You understand there are a lot of questions. There are three questions. A first question concerns the 30 points which I have said are errors or incompletes and which appear in the note. That is why I would have liked to know more about these data and to have it clarified. Mr Minister, a second question is not about the IKW note, but concerns not only the reference made by my colleague but also by other Members earlier to the procedure and to the next steps in the replacement. I would have liked to have heard from you all the documents and information that you or the Defense Department has or that you or the Defense Department know about, either because of the Pentagon or because of the U.S. Court of Auditors or even because of the FBI, in connection with all the F-35 cases, about the reporting, about the progress of the file, about the costs involved, and that is more. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to play the old saw. Minister, you have again presented figures on the screen here today. You have presented or handed over the IKW note to us. I stand by my plea to reintegrate the Court of Auditors. A self-respecting Parliament would involve the Court of Auditors. There is only one example here in our own country that we need to take up here. In the Flemish Parliament and in the Flemish government, the Court of Auditors has been involved in the control and follow-up of the report on the Oosterweel connection in Antwerp for ten years. What can be done at Flemish government level should also be possible here. It is up to us as a self-respecting Parliament to give that task to the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u44	Mr Minister, I will give you the floor again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Van der Maelen, I do not know whether I should be compassionate or disgusted by what you are saying. I'm really disappointed. You take things off as if it were a lie palace here, but if anyone works on the basis of half-truths, whole assumptions and a hell of a lot of lies, then you are. There are incredibly many accusations against persons named by name, with total disrespect for those who do their work in professional circles, for example as internal inspector general, in the Federal Internal Audit or any other function they practice. I'm really sorry about that, and I can't understand that. Mr van der Maelen, your questions raise my suspicions. I don't know exactly what you're doing, maybe writing a novel? You're looking for ghosts, aren't you? Where the hell did you get it? Some of your questions are simply too idiotic to answer. I tell you that I did not receive an e-mail on 19 September or the days around it. How many times do I have to repeat that? You claim I've given the order to order. Do you really think that in our state order, as we work, I can simply place such an order? No. You make one intention process after another. You pile one lie on the other. You're just gonna keep doing that and you're gonna keep repeating things. This creates an atmosphere like everything here would be to the bones. I understand. I do wonder whose interest you are defending here. You speak of aggressiveness and with total disrespect. It is not about me, because as a minister I must be able to bear that. I think it is rather rude that you postulate all sorts of things of world alienation and then say that as a minister I have no respect for Parliament. I was raised to think that someone would get respect if they deserved it. That starts by giving respect first. I have answered every question that has been put to me here in Parliament. Any question to come to Parliament as quickly as possible or to deliver documents was answered positively by me. After a very long process, we decided to initiate a replacement procedure. We roll them out in an objective and verifiable way, with clearly agreed evaluation criteria. You'd like to see that different. I understand that. I have heard Mr Dallemagne say the same. He likes that different too. He'd rather we put aside everything we've been objectifying and start talking to one specific partner. So I have not placed an order and I can also answer no to any other assumptions you make. I say it again now, show me one proof of the fact that I would have any preference in this matter. Show me the proof. I will continue to talk about the fact that I have launched an objective procedure until the last day. I myself am convinced of the importance of our air combat capability. You're not, I know that. You'd rather be handing out everything, I understand, after your chairman's intervention. However, I am convinced that we need and must maintain our air combat capacity. In this context, I have set up an objective procedure. I know this was different when you were in charge. We are always looking at one file here, but there have been such files. You've always been very good at that. If you like to see things differently, I have to say that it doesn't happen like before. Maybe there's something else to defend, I don't know. I'm really starting to doubt it. At first I thought it wasn't, but I'm starting to feel doubt. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, you have not really asked a question, but I am going to answer you with regard to whistleblowers. In Defence, we must have people of confidence for the military and for civilians. We have a complaints service, subject to a charter of ethics, and there is also a possibility of direct contact with the federal mediator. One week after the audit results, we adapted the Inspectorate General's website to ensure that people who wish to ask a question or file a complaint know that they can contact the federal mediator. Mr De Vriendt, you are asking for a formal answer. Did I get that e-mail, yes or no? No. I am not going to continue to defend myself against e-mails from which I will not be told who they come from. That's easy. You are also good at creating an atmosphere. Today in Knack, too. I read all this: demanding respect for Parliament, but blaming others seven times without providing any proof, every time. That is the atmosphere that apparently has to be created today, the atmosphere that seems to be organized on the left today. That's what people do. It cannot be said that, on the one hand, we must fulfil our obligations internationally and, on the other hand, defence is important and, on the other hand, it is all strangers that we cannot trust. There's been an internal investigation. I understand that you say about the internal investigation that it was conducted by a general, with stars and stripes, who is part of the system. However, the federal internal audit was carried out by an external firm. If your colleague says that this is organized, it goes a long way. You say they've been building this since 2012. That's a long way to go, isn't it? You should read in the reports what it is all about. The citizens could ask questions about this: what is actually happening in Parliament? Then I'm here to answer questions seriously. If you point out to me an evolution and reactions, that is indeed true. I said at the beginning of my speech that it was possible at the time to... you also continue to speak of'very important documents', 'important documents'. Let's call that document what it really is. That document is a memo about a method of checking whether the prospects for actual flight hours correspond to the effective use and vice versa. That's not a document on lifespan extension. That's not in there. It only says: based on the EFH one can in theory fly longer. I was not in the Chamber, but of course I followed the 22 hours of hearings carefully; the file is important enough. During these hearings, no one knows what to do beyond the 8 000 EFH. That's the bottom line. My first reaction was also: if this is such an important document and it has not been given to me, then I want to get the best out of it. Mr Buysrogge, that is an answer to your question. I said, "I want an internal investigation." So I had an external audit done, because I want to know what's good about this. I didn't put anyone aside at the time. I did talk to the people involved. At that time, it was decided that it might be better for them to take a step back in order to allow the investigation to proceed. If you're asking me, with everything I know today, would I have done what I've done? One gets a little paranoid to be honest in the long run. However, I have seen today that certain people remain so. At some point, however, one does not know who one can or cannot trust anymore. I believe that at that time, with the knowledge I had then, I made the right decision. The investigation has had every opportunity. No one has been involved in saying what may or may not be said, done or shown. I'd like to come back to that atmosphere. I have already understood that the opposition says of everyone, except that one witness, that they were not competent, were not aware of our aircraft or that they were flat sellers of another aircraft. People are proclaiming all this for truth. Mr De Vriendt says that I intervened in the investigation. I replied in plenary. I'm the Chief Superintendent of the Inspector General. This is my research I ordered. At some point, I asked a specific question that I wanted answered. Has there been any mail traffic between my cabinet and the person concerned? That question was asked to all those involved who were questioned. That question was asked not only to a person, but to all of them. That is a direct intervention When I give a research assignment, this is indeed a direct intervention. After all, I'm the client and I'm the hierarchical officer. I read out the specific article of the law on this subject in plenary. It is my right to ask that question and I have exercised that right. I was politically attacked, and you said I shouldn't make the slightest effort. I get blamed every time I don't figure things out. However, I have done much more than you would think. In the meantime, that has become clear. I think we need to think about this. Mr Hellings made it very clear that it was always going on in Belgium. I am not the minister of toujours, but of aujourd'hui. I am the Minister who has started the task of giving the Department of Defence, which has been completed for years, a future. We are constantly talking about the replacement of air combat capacity, but at the same time there are other dossiers that we are trying to bring to a successful conclusion. In that context, I said that we must ensure a complete objectification. When Claude became head of the cabinet at the time, I made very specific arrangements. I told him I didn't like pressure. I knew that someday all sorts of things would come up, as we see it today. This was to be predicted three years ago. I cannot predict better than others here in the Chamber, but I could have predicted this: that we would be sitting here, that there would be a call from the head of the cabinet this and the minister that and another contact there. I thought we all saw that coming. As a cautious minister, I have tried to take a number of measures. In that context, I told my head of the cabinet that he was wearing a light blue uniform and warned him that this was a very sensitive dossier, very important and very heavy. That is why I proposed that he should abstain in this particular dossier and some small others in part. We have respected each other. When I see today what has happened over the past few months, I have made a very good decision. I'd take them again immediately. At the time, we said we were going to the replacement. The ACAP team already existed, it was actually a result of an RFI. The job determined who was part of it. I'd like to challenge you all to watch the movie from those 22-hour hearings. You should take a look at the uniform colour of the people who were heard to defend the file on the replacement of air combat capacity. I'll tell you, they're khaki uniforms. For example, you say for truth, Mr De Vriendt: there is a hierarchical superior present in the internal investigation. That is not true, it was noted here in committee in the report. Lieutenant Colonel Decrop is not under General Debaene. Lieutenant Colonel Decrop has been with ACOS Strat since 2017, I think. ACOS Strat does not fall under General Debaene's hierarchy, turn or turn that way you like. So that's not correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u46	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u47	Okay, so you say. Anyone who says something you don't want to hear is incompetent, unreliable or unbelievable. That's what I need to hear here every time. There are 27 people who have passed the review. One of them told another story. As far as the measurements are concerned, you have heard with me that measurements should be made for at least three years. Or am I the only one, along with the one who typed the report, who heard that? I have certainly read the report. I'd like to invite you to do the same. Do I think Parliament should have known that? Would it have been much more convenient if Parliament had known? Yes, but let us start by framing that document. It is an instrument to monitor the extent to which actual flying hours can be effectively achieved. In the end, that's what it's about. A colonel mentioned here that things stopped at his level, because the information was adequate for him, after they had been ordered to sort things out. That's it. Should Parliament have known? That would have been more convenient. It would have been more convenient if I had been familiar with the document, when I was called in the morning from VRT radio for my response. Then it wouldn't have been news by noon; then everyone would have known what it was eventually. In this sense, the author of the document has had a bit of luck from the press. What is the status of the RfGP? It's very simple. The evaluation phase is coming to an end. The dossier will now have to be taken up in the context of budget handling and budgetary control, including the participation of the Treasury Inspectorate. It will then, along with all the other information, be prepared for the government. It is also in that context that I did not invite companies, Mr De Vriendt, nor did I invite Dassault. I asked my French colleague a little more information about the three-page letter that was delivered to me on 6 September 2017. That letter was sent to me instead of France participating in the competition, which was open and accessible to everyone. That is why we have come. If you want to fill that out differently or have others fill it out differently, go ahead, but that's the contact. Is there a parallel procedure going on? Absolutely not. I think I am very clear on that. There's one procedure. It is my personal conviction that the government has made a lot of decisions to make that path in a certain, objective way and that we have to finish the story. Mr Yüksel, as far as the mail is concerned, I will not continue to defend myself. You may go along with that and talk about it in the press, but I will not continue to defend myself against e-mails which are not even polite enough to tell me who they come from. In the meantime, I'm starting to suspect who the tipster is, but okay. I don't know that e-mail. What's the government gonna do? I just read the passage from the government statement. It is my intention to implement the coalition agreement. I hope you have the same intention. Is it necessary for this legislature to take a decision? Again, personally, I think it is important that we implement the coalition agreement as a whole. How do I respond to the ambassadors' open letter to Typhoon? I have read that letter and sent a response in which I thank them for the information and say that I will pass it on to the people who are going to do so. That's it. That's it. That's it. Did I get any reactions from my colleagues? There are certainly colleagues who asked me about this at the informal meeting in Sofia two weeks ago. We have talked about this as colleagues, but it is certainly not formal. Mr Dallemagne, I would like to point out to you that it is of course possible that a member of the opposition may have a preference and express it. All right. But I don't have one. I have initiated an objective and open procedure and I am. Mr Vandenput, on the 2015 IKW information note, the following. Mr Top, you should take a look at the date. That note was drawn up in November 2015. At the sp.a and in a film with Harry Potter all this can be done, but in a normal world one cannot process information that does not exist at that time. When a report is made, a report is made on the basis of the available information. If it is said in 2015 that the Americans do not go beyond 2035 with the support of the F-16, then so was at that time. That was their intention then. Mr Top, there is another plane, which is apparently too slow, which has made them decide to relift. Besides, it's not as much as you say. The figure of over 600 you give is not correct. However, I do not know the figure by heart. That was the information we had then: the Americans stopped supporting us in 2035. So we didn't look any further than 2035. That seems obvious to me. The question was where that information came from. In such a story, there is an iterative process between the Cabinet and the Defence Staff. The Defense Staff is asked for information, the Cabinet processes it, converts it into understandable language and the like. In this context, a number of data has been processed, including the public; it is the same as the opposition is doing here. Mr Top, you say that Portugal provides only EUR 5 million and that we need much more. If you take such things off the Internet, you should also know that Portugal is going to upgrade today that we did in 2010 or 2011. You would be surprised if you saw what follow-up there is from upgrades of devices and at what level exactly. According to my information, Portugal's flight hours are also significantly lower than our number. At 4 000 hours, an upgrade will be made, guaranteeing that you can go up to 5 500 hours. Then there will be a new upgrade. And that's how the story goes on and on. You can take it from me, according to the schedules I've seen, our F-16s have been continuously involved in other upgrades since the midlife update in 2003 to 2005. There is continuous work, with good returns for a number of companies here in Belgium, to keep things up to date. If you want to compare cases, compare them carefully. You can also compare it to Taiwan. Taiwan does not fly with F-16/Block-15 but with Block-20 and that costs 21 million per aircraft. What information do you want to quote where and at what point as for what? You will always say the most expensive, someone else will always say the cheapest or vice versa. I have learned one thing in the last two months, especially that engineers, and certainly military engineers, should not do politics. It's been proven that they didn't. However, if politicians think they're going to be engineers, more specifically aircraft engineer, that's even more dangerous. Mr Vandenput, to make a long story short, that is decided internally, in the Cabinet, on the basis of the data of the Defence Staff. We never aired anything without asking the Defense Staff if we could broadcast it that way. Don't we make mistakes here? The same goes for me as a minister. I get technical advice, and I ask if I'm saying something wrong if I'm politically translating it like that. That's how it works. It's obvious to everyone, if I'd had that memo that morning, it would have been better. If you'd had the memos, it would have been better. However, there will still be a lot of information that Parliament would have liked to have. Mr Hellings, concerning General Vansina and his phone call to Lockheed, this is not on the list, and that is correct. The list concerns the ACCaP team. You question me and, in all openness, I give you the data. This is the ACCaP team, not anyone in the staff. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u48	That's not the question I'm asking you. The questions I've asked you since the beginning of the market are about the Defence contacts. The ACCaP is part of the Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u49	I'm sure the ACCaP team has its list. That's the list I'm giving you. You're asking me for the entire Defence list. It's hard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u50	Minister, in your answers to my questions, including one of the most recent questions you asked about Defence, including your office, you never answered that this data was only about the ACCaP.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u51	At the firm level, I'm not going to give you any information. I invite you to come and consult these data, but I am not going to make them public. That's impossible. I ask you: if people provide you with information, will you publish their contact details? Journalists have already wanted to inform themselves but have not been able to reveal anything because everything is anonymous. As I imagined that what is happening today could happen, I thought it might be better if there was not too much "blue world influence" in the file. That's something we respected. You're asking me who took part in the intercabinets. They're specialists. Maybe that's how it is at Ecolo. At home, they're directors, specialists. In other departments, it is the heads of cabinet who participate in the intercabinets. As for the question of who was chief of staff in September, I answer that it is the same as today. Mr Buysrogge, you had another question about the action plan and the CHOD. I have already said in my introduction that I had asked for two concrete things in the very short term. That was, firstly, to ensure that access to the databases is restored. By this I mean that it is no longer possible for people who haven't been working for a service for a year and a half to start downloading things from the site in preparation for a file, of course, for good intentions, in order to save society money. That case of access to the databases is in order. Secondly, I also said that, if you want to call yourself a whistleblower, you must follow the procedures. If these procedures are not sufficiently known, then the defence apparatus must do something about them. That too has happened. This month I expect information from the CHOD on the steps he will take in relation to the other recommendations. Mr Top, once again you are trying to throw a lot of things into your mouth and you are putting words in my mouth that I am not saying. You ask me who is the author of a document which has gone externally to my cabinet. You either accept that the Minister is responsible, or not, but this is a document that has been externally addressed. Mr Vandenput, you also asked why that document was classified at the time. This was done because we have requested data from certain partners and those partners provide this information on the basis of confidentiality. There are countries where one will not know how many hours they have flown from each aircraft individually by name and by name. That could be a security issue. There are countries that don't like to share that kind of information. MNFP does, but only under the condition that that information is not made public, hence the classification at the time. At that time, in the preparation of the famous committee meeting, I said that it should be possible to declassify that document, and that is what we did. We have made it available, and we note today that the data provided by Lockheed is broadly in line with what we said at the time. Those prices don't vary so much. So one should not pretend that all this was just wet fingering. Mr Top, the figures in the IKW note are the result of discussions back and forth with the Defence Staff and investigations by our own people, just as you do. You ask whether that is a study on the length of life, but it is not. The people here have said that you were also present at the time, I think what a study on the length of life actually means. That involves sacrificing devices, years of testing and so on. The question is how much information is needed as a politician to take the next step in a decision-making process? We have seriously considered the alternatives. On the basis of the information available to us today, the alternative is not really viable. That is why we have taken the next step. Would you have liked to see that differently? Okay, no problem. Today, however, we must prepare and try to implement the decisions. Mr Top, you asked a question about the structure. I just showed you a calculation based on your assumptions. In fact, you see that your choice would be more expensive than if we were simply to do what needs to be done at some point. Compare it to a car. A car owner can have his car tinkered and spare parts replaced, he can also decide to use his car a little less. At some point, however, a further step must be taken. I have just answered the question about Portugal. If I am not mistaken, Portugal will now carry out the upgrade we have already done in the past. So that's a completely different kind of upgrade. That is something you should be very careful about when comparing things with each other. If you claim that the difference between the Block-30 or Block-40 devices and our devices is not so great, I invite you to reread the report of the hearings held by the Chamber on this matter. I think that after that reading you will decide other things. You're asking for documents from the Pentagon, the FBI, the U.S. Court of Auditors (the Congressional Budget Office) and I don't know which institutions anymore, about the F-35. You can ask that question. I think you'll soon have those documents in your possession. They look like that mail from September 19th. We've talked enough about the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I have answered most of the questions raised in the speeches. I would like to remind you once again that to some extent I am pleased that we are beginning to realize what we are all doing and that there is a discussion about whether or not to replace the F-16s. For people with common sense, it is now clear to me that we are making the right choice with this government. I think I have also shown that history today is technically very risky, since there is no decision before 2023 and that a decision in 2023, in case of a setback, will be too late. In addition, there is absolutely no certainty as to what the market looks like in 2023 if only then is decided instead of now. In spite of what one specialist has come here to say, I have also clearly shown that longer flying with the F-16s, which postpones the decision that has to be taken, does not offer any real financial benefits and would therefore, on the contrary, not be a good choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u52	Madam President, I must begin by thanking the Minister. He had received from me the day, the hour and the recipients of the e-mail. I just heard him say he had a hunch who the sender is. I therefore assume, Minister, that you have already checked this and that you know that the mail exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u53	Can we take note of what I said?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u54	You said you had an idea who the sender was.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u55	I have a hunch who might be the sender, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u56	That's what you said, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u57	I have a hunch, yeah. I still have suspicions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u58	So the e-mail exists. That's my conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u59	No, I don't think the e-mail exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u60	Okay, but you already have an idea who the sender is. I'm having a bit of a hard time following that reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u61	I have a hunch who's gonna get you this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u62	I would like to clarify something. I was really bitten to know what happened here in this file, Minister. Together with my colleague Top and a number of staff, I am digging into this dossier. We're digging up more and more. I am 100 percent convinced that a machination has been going on for longer than this legislature, from the top of the army. I have an e-mail here. This is easy to check because Mr Jos Vanschoenwinkel, who is sitting here in the room, is in cc. It's an email from 2012. This shows that Belgium, as the only country which has not entered the development of the F-35, has been invited to the American delegation. On that occasion, a series of arguments were presented to Belgium in favour of the F-35. So since 2012, our army top has been working on that. We also have another document from 2012 with the program timeline. Colleagues, you must read what they agreed to at the top of the army. One thing of this is for example: the order must be placed in 2018. That was already agreed by the summit in 2012 in the planning. Minister, I have given you the benefit of the doubt for a while. I did think for a while that you were not aware of that machination set up by the army top. I believed you. I regret to say that this is not true. You and your cabinet not only knew on 6 February 2018 but already knew that there was a different slope than the purchase of the F-35, especially the slope of the extension of the F-16. Nevertheless, you have said time and again in this Chamber, but also for radio and television, that you were not aware of the existence of studies. On the radio you said: "With the hand on the heart I can tell you that I was not aware of the existence of studies." At other times you said in the Chamber that the extension of F-16s might be possible, but that our Belgian F-16s cannot be renewed. In that mail of September 18, 207, a high-ranking military, not lieutenant colonel Decrop but someone else, says that an extension of the lifetime of the F-16 is possible. That information is not on your cabinet, the name "Steven Vandeput". Nevertheless, you are here this other story that fits perfectly in the booth of what the army summit has agreed since 2012 continue to serve through your interventions. Then I would like to address my colleagues from the majority. I am truly outraged that you are simply getting into the easy defense of the minister who says: show me that e-mail. You are simply going along with this instead of wondering whether it is better to know the truth in this file. I'll give you the piste. Mr. Miller, I'll give you the lead to make sure that what I'm saying is correct. Let us invite General Van de Voorde and hear him under oath. I don't know if you know that, but military orders have been issued in this case. All this with the intention to focus the communication lines properly. It will only be under oath that we will know. Colleagues, if we hear General Van de Voorde under oath, I will put more information on the table. I have more information, but I want to hear him under oath. Finally, I have no lessons to learn from this majority on transparency. Let us look at the way in which this dossier should be examined by Parliament, in what circumstances, under what conditions, imposed by the government and by the chairman of this committee. To give you just one example, you ask for an email I have. I've been asking from the beginning about the self-investigation that Defense has done. I wouldn't call that an internal audit. I ask about the e-mails during the period from 10 to 19 May, in which a number of key players communicate with each other after Lieutenant Colonel Decrop's e-mail. I'm asking to see those e-mails, but I still haven't gotten them. I also asked for the e-mails of February 5 and 6 from General Vansina. Following my question, he sends us an e-mail whose title we only know, as guidance. This title leads me to assume that General Vansina is giving his guidance on how we should... In another e-mail, the Secretary of Defense is urged to reply to nothing other than what is prescribed in that e-mail. I want to see those e-mails. I want General Van de Voorde to come and then I will put everything I have on the table, but then I expect those e-mails, which I still haven't seen, to be on the table. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I think it is your bloody parliamentary duty to check whether the procedure has been properly conducted. This is about a billion-dollar file. We are all paid by the taxpayer, and he also wants to know whether the procedure was correct. If you are not now convinced that there are at least indications of whether this procedure has been properly conducted, then I am beginning to doubt whether you are fit to sit in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u63	Madam President, I will have learned from this adventure that transparency is sometimes very opaque! The majority spends more time dirtying colleague Van der Maelen, saying that he is a bad gentleman who brings out e-mails, the minister even saying that he is writing a novel... It is a bit derogatory to a parliamentarian who is trying to do his job from the elements at his disposal. Another part of the majority exhumes information that the under-20s cannot know, in order to undermine the rest of the opposition. All this is ridiculous! It's a strategy that you use when you lack arguments. You can laugh, the truth is there. In addition, some bidders withdrew from the procedure because they had doubts. Even France, a great friend of the Prime Minister, withdrew from the procedure, while trying to enter through the window. You tell us that we must respect the procedure, but the first one to fail to respect it is the Prime Minister who, according to you, asked you to meet with the French Minister of the Armed Forces to discuss the matter, as your spokesman said. Either there is a procedure that is supported by the government, and it must be respected - even if I do not share it - or there is none. You have to be clear, minister. Transparency is again very opaque. You're saying I didn't ask you any questions. It's not because I don't have one, but because trust is broken. I will ask the Prime Minister my questions. We need political responsibility. I can hear that this government's option has been, from the beginning, to buy new aircraft and not to extend the old ones. It is a political choice, which I may or may not share. But you have to take responsibility for it, which you have not done, and I blame you for it. Besides, we feel like we've been lied to. As Mr Dallemagne said, you should have made this presentation at the very beginning in the Special Committee on Military Procurement or in the Defence Committee, objectively and transparently, and not today. Subsequently, the government had to present us with a choice. After that, the Socialist Group supported or did not support him. This is a matter of political debate. Today, we have the feeling that to correct this lack of transparency, because you're a little caught up with the events, you come to explain why we chose to buy planes. That's not how we work! This is not the way to be transparent! Having said that, I would like to thank you for answering my question on whistleblowers and for the progress that has been made. But we have to go further. When e-mails are circulating and the authors are not dared to mention them for fear of the consequences this could have for them, one can conclude that a problem remains. I repeat, therefore, that we must go further, even if I welcome the effort that has been made. At the same time, we remain convinced of the need for a D committee. In addition, you have stated - which I cannot accept because I feel personally targeted - that the opposition is trying to undermine the entire Defence. That's not true, Minister! We have shown respect. We asked questions. You say people came here with certainty, with information. I saw in this room soldiers doubting, who began their presentation by pretending that they had the truth, and then explaining to us that the truth might lie between them and Mr. Decrop. At some point, it's not all white, it's not all black. Those who have attended all the hearings are legitimately entitled to ask questions. I therefore support Mr Van der Maelen's request to hear Colonel Van de Voorde here, especially since he has committed himself to depositing on the table the documents which he is accused of not presenting. If the majority wants transparency, as it claims, if it thinks that the choices that have been made and that are emerging are the right ones, that it accepts the proposal that has been made and that all the pieces are put on the table so that, in this market, transparency is no longer opaque, as it has been the case for weeks, if not months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u64	Madam President, Minister, I come back to the operation of your office. You have three major issues since 2014: the intervention of our six F-16s in Iraq and Syria; the Strategic Vision and the programming law, which are linked; and the 34 fighter-bombers. You have decided, as a mode of political operation within your cabinet, to remove your Chief of Staff from two of the three most important files. Your Chief of Staff was not linked to the Strategic Vision and the replacement of the 34 fighter-bombers. You have decided to join the work force and network of the former Chief of Air Component to put your Chief of Staff out of two of the three most important files in this legislature. It's very special. I don't understand. Don't worry, in Ecolo's offices, it's always worked that way. Because in fact, all of Belgium's offices work like this. The Chief of Staff is the centrepiece, especially when it comes to defending an essential issue in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u65	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u66	No! This is the case in every other firm. Minister, you mustn't think of us as fools. And especially not the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u67	I don't need an evaluation. How do I say it? I don't want you to look at the functioning of my cabinet here. It seems strange to me that a minister has to answer for this. Either the minister does not know, and it is the military who makes the decisions, or the minister who makes them. And that's what I did. We can't support both theses at the same time. I took on my responsibilities by organizing the work, so we were able to move forward. Two of the three major projects you mentioned have been successful. The strategic plan is being finalized. In my opinion, but perhaps not for Ecolo, our contribution to the fight against Daesh is a success. We owe it to the way I organized my firm. Is there a rule explaining how a firm should operate?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u68	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u69	Where? Tell me the law!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u70	Hierarchical relationships between a Chief of Staff and advisors operate according to an informal rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u71	Mr. Hellings, I don't understand. Either the hierarchy is a problem, or it does not.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u72	Minister, you are politically responsible for what your collaborators are doing, starting with your Chief of Staff. It's a reality. You must take full responsibility for the decisions taken. I would point out to you, however, that in two out of three cases, your chief of staff, who is the centrepiece of the team that surrounds you...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u73	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u74	Yes! This person was, in your opinion and according to her, put out of the way. It's very special. It is important that Belgian citizens and the public present at the moment know that this is something quite original. Whether it is the Strategic Vision, the F-16 replacement file or the mission in Iraq and Syria, these three parts have one thing in common: it is the bomber fighters, old or new, who are deployed. You had as your chief of staff the former boss of the Air Component. You won't take my mind off that it's very special. I now turn to the question of transparency. In good faith, and I have acknowledged your willingness to be open and transparent, you have answered my written questions about the contacts maintained by Defence and your firm, but you have consistently explained to me those that were maintained by the ACCaP. But I was asking you what about those who were maintained by the Defence. This means that there is now a shadow zone on which we have not yet been able to shed light, namely the contacts maintained by other military personnel than those who are part of the ACCaP. Remember, there are three people at the ACCaP, but I can be wrong. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u75	I'm told there are 33 of them today. There is therefore a shadow zone which is not the subject of democratic lighting. These are the contacts maintained by other members of the Defence, particularly other members of the Air Component, on which we have no sight. General Vansina's telephone conversation is part of this shadow zone. In order to better understand this issue in full transparency and openness, it would be interesting if we could also have a register. My colleague De Vriendt and I already indicate all the contacts we have with the various players in this market. I understand that you are willing to leave me, in complete discretion, with access to the list you have asked your collaborators to draw up. I will contact you in this regard. Finally, I conclude with the process as such. The government had a November 2015 note, one third of which is dedicated to the F-16 renovation and modernization scenario. So it's not a stupid hypothesis. This hypothesis was widely debated in the Defence, then in the government and parties of the majority visibly. We don't know who wrote the note, but it's your political responsibility. You have confirmed this to our colleague Van der Maelen. A third of this note, for which you have political responsibility, is challenged by a study by the manufacturer of the F-16 itself, but you do not consider it appropriate to adapt a third of this note in the light of the new information that has been given and, therefore, you do not communicate it to the parliamentarians of the Military Procurement Committee so that the right decision is taken, transparently and openly. I do not dispute your right, as Minister of Defence, to make the decision to replace the current 54 F-16s with 34 new aircraft. I do not dispute this right but the political decision. You promised us openness and transparency in this market. All that I have just explained to you shows that there is no openness or transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u76	Colleagues, Mr van der Maelen, I am trying to take my job seriously as a Member of Parliament. I believe that I have proved that in the past few weeks and months. Mr Minister, you say, on the basis of figures and on the basis of the previous hearings, that an extension is technically very difficult. The outcome would be uncertain. An extension might also cost more. I'm making a link to the November 2015 IKW note, which we've talked about a lot. That note is full of question marks. A feasibility study was then proposed. Why hasn't there ever been a study? That's a pertinent question. Why has these proposals not been further developed? Today, you have calculated everything in detail. I'm sorry this didn't happen back then. We didn't know anything about that note. It was classified. In this way Parliament could not have access to it either. It is deeply regrettable that this exercise did not happen at the time or did not take place seriously. As far as Lockheed Martin's two memos are concerned, the audit revealed that those memos should not be forwarded to the CHOD or the MOD. I'm sorry. It was said that that information was irrelevant and that there was nothing new in it. The information had no added value. Even if it were, I still regret that such crucial information is not forwarded to the CHOD or the MOD. Worse still, the information was not made available to Parliament either. What I don't understand is that such information doesn't get to you. Whether it is relevant or not, in my view that is totally irrelevant. I think it's very serious that such information doesn't get to you. One final point, Mr Van der Maelen, about the e-mail you just mentioned. We ask you to share it with the committee if you want it to be taken into account. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u77	Madam President, I was not really going to take the floor, because the debate was gradually exhausted. Nevertheless, Mr Van der Maelen, with his last three sentences, encouraged me to do so. Apparently it is a technique that must be used, Mr Van der Maelen, and I will, because I am trying to learn from old wise men. You must answer yes or no immediately. Did you say: 'If you do not understand me now, I wonder whether you are worth sitting in Parliament?' Did you say it like that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u78	If you do not now realise that this is important enough to take next steps, if you continue to follow the government slavishly, then you are not worthy to be a Member of Parliament. I said that gross modo, yeah.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u79	I shouldn't feel personally addressed, because you addressed the entire majority. We've been sitting together for hours, days about the procedure. There's been a vote. The procedure is objective and transparent. There have been hearings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u80	Transparant?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u81	Mrs Kitir, I can imagine that you do not know that it is being transparent, but it is. If you had been present at the hearings and followed the debates, you would have known. Please stop insinuating me. Mr Van der Maelen, I understand that you have decided for personal reasons to stop politics after this term of office. That's not a free pass to do some stile-destroy. It is not because we do not follow your populist discourse that we would not be worth sitting in Parliament. What does that even mean, worth sitting in Parliament? Let the electorate judge on that, because that is how democracy works in my knowledge. You may see that differently, but I don't.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u82	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Madam President, Mr Van der Maelen asked for a hearing with General Van de Voorde under oath. You have just said that this can only be done in a parliamentary committee of inquiry. So if he really wants to do that, he has to ask the question of starting a committee of inquiry. So, Mr van der Maelen, you can start this procedure if you want. Moreover, I believe that the organisation of hearings should be discussed in the rules of procedure. That's not on the agenda today. Madam President, I propose that this be discussed in a subsequent arrangement. Mr van der Maelen, you also said that we are not doing our job here and we are not sitting here. Between 2014 and March 2018 we have never seen you here on the committee. Since March 20th you have come here to say the high word and wave mails. We have been doing our work here for four years. You haven't seen us. Come more to the committee, follow the files, and you can tell us if we're in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u83	In conclusion, Minister, there is only one guiding principle in the whole matter, and we sometimes forget it. My colleague Van der Maelen referred to the documents from 2012 and 2014. I would like to read one more e-mail: "What's the alternative if it doesn't turn F-35?" Then comes a list of the other devices. That e-mail dates back to 2013. I'll tell you what the guide is since the start-up in 2012 until today. The timetable that Mr Van der Maelen gave up earlier is right to this day. Mr Van der Maelen asked a moment ago when the decision will be taken and whether it is being prepared. That is a fair question, because the NATO summit will take place on 11 July. I wonder what the decision will be and whether it is not already taken or in preparation. The same goes for my colleague. Let me explain why I'm drawing that line. You request the date of that mail, 2013. I'm going to the 2015 documents. First of all, there is the November 2015 document. I have asked questions about the figures and you have now presented other figures, including EUR 271 million for the extension of the lifetime of the F-16s in relation to the original replacement procedure or the scheme. But how long have you known him? Before, around and after 2015? That answer will certainly be interesting for all those of the majority of the towers that everything is transparent, including yourself. Have those numbers been weighed? Secondly, the IKW note of November 2015, which you delivered to the committee members, is a follow-up to this. By the way, it is to your credit, Minister, that you take responsibility for the documents when I asked a moment ago who was the author of them. So you are also responsible for the March 2015 document with the starting points for replacing the F-16. I read them: "The F-16s do not offer the appropriate properties to truly be a strategic vector that can drop nuclear bombs without being seen by an opponent. This can only be done through fifth generation fighter planes." That's a first quote. "A fifth generation aircraft which is at the start of its development' means that it must be "and designed for decades of further development'. Then it says: "If it is possible to make a budget, it would also be interesting from an effective contribution to NATO's nuclear distress to switch to the fifth generation aircraft as soon as possible." Finally, it says: "By the important number of fifth generation aircraft to be acquired, the Belgian industry will gain a better position around the return for support, despite the current limited position due to the failure of the previous government to enter into the development of this type of aircraft." I didn't mention it, that plane, that plane. However, anyone can conclude which type of device you are all looking for.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u84	Mr Top, if you read to me, can you show me which page my signature is on, or where I would have brought this document externally?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u85	You have just taken responsibility for this document.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u86	No, I said that I take responsibility for documents that are passed on as administrative documents externally. It must be the case with you that you can only write what the Minister himself says. Then one doesn't need a cabinet anymore. This is a document that was not even presented to me in that way, let alone to third parties in my name. We made that very clear on the radio that morning. The media then found that the sp.a left a balloon again, which went up very quickly but that would explode. That's what happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u87	Minister, one thing or another: either you are responsible for documents from your cabinet or you are not.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u88	What matters is the decisions taken by the government. That counts. The rest is hear say.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u89	So all that happens on your cabinet and what's written on your cabinet is bullshit. That's what you're saying. I read the title of your document: "General guidelines MOD, propose political negotiating paper Strategic Vision." That's where you want to go.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u90	After two hearings and an exchange of views and almost 27 hours of debate, I am happy to close this committee meeting. Mr Van der Maelen, it's not true, is it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u91	(...) express our opinion on the question of having General Van de Voorde come to the committee under oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic895x.u92	I will plan an arrangement of the work and then we can discuss for a number of hours whether the earth is flat.
