ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u1	Questions Nos 22993 and 22995 by Mrs Galant are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u2	Mr. Minister, Alexandre Bompard, CEO of the Groupe Carrefour, revealed his strategic plan on Tuesday 23 January 2018. The plan is to fire 10% of the 1 233 employees in Belgium. There have been many actions, in France and Belgium. Meanwhile, under pressure from the unions, the management no longer intends to close two hypermarkets, which could save about 200 jobs. The management of Carrefour does require more polyactivity from its employees, which is a good word for more flexibility. Workers and trade unions are, of course, still not satisfied with this and are therefore in favour of maintaining all jobs. We fully understand this and support the workers in their struggle. I would remind you that Carrefour is earning more than EUR 1 billion worldwide. I'm updating my question a little bit with the information available today. Negotiations are under way between workers' and employers' organisations, but it seems that it is still unclear where the management of Carrefour wants to land and how many jobs it is about: is it possible under Carrefour's plan to retain all jobs or are there not enough jobs? There are actually two versions, hence my question, Minister: what information do you have and how many jobs do you have in the end? I also have a question about government subsidies. Has there been a table on the number of grants Carrefour has received in our country? Finally, where are we on the procedure of the Renault Act? Do you think we will reach an agreement for the summer holidays?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u3	Minister, according to the latest announcements, Carrefour's restructuring plan puts more than 1,000 workers on the job. The day after the announcement, the Prime Minister met with the company's management and told us in plenary that the situation was normal given the digital transformation of the sector. We cannot accede to this declaration. In fact, we cannot confront it with reality, since the majority refused to hold hearings in this committee. The Prime Minister said the government will do everything it can to avoid social damage. He recalled your willingness to reform the Renault law, to involve the social partners in the management of the digital and collaborative economy. Beyond these initiatives, it would be necessary to begin a real reflection on the redundancies of stock exchanges. My group has tabled a bill to that effect. Workers cannot be considered as a budgetary adjustment variable. Minister, can you tell us where the government is in the follow-up to Carrefour? What have you put in place for the 1,000 affected workers? What is your schedule of work and the initiatives taken to reform the Renault law and what objectives do you want to achieve? Have you had confirmation from the company of the 191 jobs that would be saved, especially in the hypermarkets of Angleur and Genk?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u4	Mr Minister, on Thursday 25 January the Executive Board of Carrefour announced on a special works council that 1 233 jobs were under threat. You know the details: 180 jobs at the headquarters in Evere and 1 053 jobs in the hypermarkets. Since a thousand people now work at headquarters, about one in five staff should leave there. In the large hypermarkets and in a number of Carrefour Markets, which are run by the chain itself, some 10 500 people work. That is about 10% of the jobs that would disappear. Two hypermarkets completely close: Genk and Angleur; those stores make structural losses. In a press release, the board repeats what it had already communicated in Paris about the French branches. The group wants to save money to invest more in e-commerce, fresh food and home brands. At the same time, this year Carrefour Belgium will open more than thirty new Market supermarkets and Express neighbourhood stores, as well as seventy e-commerce pick-up points. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to have an answer to the following questions. Firstly, what initiatives have you taken in recent weeks following the announcement of redundancies? Was there any consultation with the management of Carrefour? Secondly, was a possible government negotiator appointed? If so, on what assignment? Thirdly, has the government supported the Groupe Carrefour in recent years? If so, how many and in what form? Fourthly, what measures does the government intend to take to help the redundant workers find new jobs? Will there be maximum coordination with the regions in this area? Fifthly, do you think that a possible application of the single payment system would be appropriate?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u5	This question is now a little dated, since the situation has evolved in the positive direction. However, I still think the question is important enough to hold on to it. On the day of the Works Council on the announcement of restructuring in France, the newspapers announced that the redundancies at Carrefour were very limited. In our country, two days later, the newspapers talked about a massacre, when the intention was announced at the Belgian works council. Indeed, we cannot ignore the fact that the number of redundancies announced in our country was proportionately much higher than in France. Do not misunderstand me, I regret any dismissal in any country, especially if this is the result of failing management with a lack of vision for the future, as is the case here. In the case of redundancies at Caterpillar and in the case of your proposals for adjusting the procedure of the Renault Act, we also suggested that we should ask ourselves whether the nature of the dismissal legislation in the case of collective redundancies does not lead to international groups looking at our country in the first instance. In De Standaard of 29 January 2018, Mr Timmermans of the VBO referred to the high level of protection according to the OECD. The OECD makes a very specific and very controversial scale, with every pure formality counting heavily. In his International Dismissal Survey Deloitte writes: "In most countries, the legal grounds for employees to dismiss employees are restricted and subject to strict formalities. Belgium is one of the few exceptions to this rule." In collective agreement No. Article 2 defines collective redundancies as "each dismissal for one or more reasons not relating to the person of the worker'. From the comments accompanying that article, I have quoted a piece that has been transferred to you; I am not going to read it to you in full. However, I have a few questions about this. In the meantime, we have learned that the intention to close Genk completely is being revised, that one will probably end up in a smaller scale. But after Carrefour's announcement, you said that you would look at this together with management and trade unions. Did that meeting happen? Was it a non-committal conversation with the management or did you also demand that hard business data show why the Belgian branches were particularly affected? Do you also have these supporting documents examined by the services of your administration? Are you considering any changes to the collective redundancies rules, for example the economic and technical reasons invoked being checked for their validity by a judicial authority or an arbitration body? I know that you also said a while ago that you wanted to amend the Renault Act and that you sent the advice to the social partners. Perhaps you could also explain how far you stand with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u6	Minister, in January of this year, the Carrefour Group announced a major restructuring of its company. The consequence appears to be a social disaster, i.e. a massive dismissal of employees has been announced. We are talking about 1,233 jobs that would be lost at the national level! In Froyennes, the group announced the removal of 10.5 full-time equivalents. Since the hourly average of Carrefour Froyennes workers is 22 hours per week, the number of workers at risk of being laid off is equivalent to 17 persons. Minister, do you confirm to me that there are 17 people who could lose their jobs? What follow-up has your administration provided since the announcement of Carrefour's restructuring? With the regional authorities, what measures are you putting in place to ensure the conversion of these unfortunate workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u7	Minister, I have no doubt that my colleagues have recalled the context. So I'm not going to repeat it. Minister, what actions has the government taken since the announcement of the restructuring at Carrefour? A series of meetings have been launched. It's probably a positive thing. Is there already a more general schedule of these meetings? As a minister, have you yourself considered measures to accompany workers who will be laid off to a new job? What's your file? There is, of course, Carrefour, but at the same time, there are important issues concerning the RCC (unemployment scheme with additional business), the outplacement, the Vocational Reorientation and Training Fund and the whole aspect of collaboration with the Regions. Through the Carrefour file – even if other companies are involved – it is an opportunity to re-examine the situation. Decisions were taken and discussions took place within the CNT (National Labour Council) on the effects of digitalisation on the economy. This is Carrefour's argument to justify dismissals. More broadly, what can you tell us about the digitisation aspect and the policies that can be pursued to prevent restructuring, still linked to the impact of the digitalisation of the economy on employment?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u8	Minister, my question also dates back to 26 January. I am also curious about the state of play in the dossier, including with regard to the agreements with the Regions. I've made the link with workable work and the training days. The new scheme related to the training days would be evaluated from January 2018. What is the state of play in that? What additional measures could be taken there? Such a restructuring will always look at competences and training. How far is the evaluation of the Renault Act? Is there any agreement on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you know that, after a special works council at Carrefour, my services of the FOD WASO were informed on 25 January of the intention of that company to resign collectively. As a result of the restructuring, there were a total of 1,233 redundancies caused by the closure of stores in Genk and Angleur, the transformation of three hypermarkets and supermarkets in Westerlo, Bruges and Haine-Saint-Pierre, a smaller hypermarket in Turnhout and a loss of jobs at the head office in Evere. Note, however, that these figures were mentioned as part of the announcement! Following this sad announcement, I came back early from my work visit to Davos and met with a number of government colleagues both the management and the trade unions of Carrefour on 26 January. During this interview, all parties were given the opportunity to express their views. I remember very vividly that the trade unions stressed that they were in phase 1 of the Renault Act. They also expressed their desire to conduct the negotiations. We told them that, in addition to providing the necessary support, we could also appoint a mediator. As in other cases, we have offered all our services. It has been taken note of, but the initial aim was to conduct the consultation in the company. I will not go into individual statements by other members of the government, but I can tell you that the most important point for me is that, in the first phase of the Renault Act, a maximum number of jobs can be saved by consultation. It would be premature to talk about the next steps now and so no longer focus on maximum job retention. Some believe that the second stage should already be considered with guidance and so on. I think that we should first try to reduce the number of 1 233 redundancies to a minimum. The trade unions are working very intensively on this, in response to their explicit question. Moreover, we are told that the first results have already been achieved. These results are due to the consultation within the company. The hypermarkets in Genk and Angleur would be transformed into supermarkets instead of closing. This allows some of the employment to be retained. Also in the shops of Westerlo, Bruges, Turnhout and Haine-Saint-Pierre the job losses could be reduced. We hope that the discussions can continue on this momentum and that as many people as possible can keep their jobs. As regards the further negotiations at Carrefour, I can only say that the social partners, the management and the trade unions have confirmed their ambition to negotiate and to reach an overall agreement on all aspects of the transformation plan. This includes, in addition to measures against the announced job losses, all the necessary structural elements of the plan to enable the return to profitability and to address the challenges of the future, such as the implementation of a new work organisation, polyactivity and the introduction of new technologies and digitalisation. Meetings between the parties will therefore be actively pursued. For the rest, the management reports that nine special works councils have already been held and six local consultation meetings in Genk, Angleur, Westerlo, Bruges-Saint-Kruis, Haine-Saint-Pierre and Turnhout and that more than 475 questions were answered in writing. A number of questions were also raised here about the reform of the Renault Act and other forthcoming legislative changes. In this respect, I can only repeat what I said earlier, namely that the social partners have been given additional time on their own request to reach an agreement on the amendment of the Renault Act. As you know, I also wrote a letter to the Group of Ten in September 2016, in which I suggested a number of slopes for such a reform. The social partners are, of course, free to consider these pistes or to make additional proposals, as expressed in this committee by several members. In any case, my suggestions concerned the obligation to inform public authorities and parliaments, a mandatory impact analysis of a closure on the direct subcontractors, and the drafting of proposals to deal with this. The role of the social mediator could also be strengthened and a social plan could become mandatory. I speak in the conditional sense, because I assume that the social partners either agree with that or add other things to it. Finally, I put forward the slopes where a social plan would cover all employees employed at the time of the announcement of restructuring. It also asked for cases falling within the competence of the Regions. You know that the social plan, the formation of workers and the adaptation of the regulatory framework of the Renault Act are part of the federal powers and are therefore our responsibility. However, the Regions are responsible for economic aid to companies through subsidies and for guidance to work, for whom they are dismissed. The deer employment is also a competence of the Regions. They must therefore play their part in this, and I understand that they will. The questions about these powers are, of course, addressed in the Land Parliaments, where regional ministers can answer them. I can tell you that the Carrefour dossier was on the agenda of the Inter-Ministerial Conference of Work on 28 February in the Walloon Minister's office. I will answer a number of specific questions. Mr Vercamer asked for the evaluation of the five training days, as provided for in the law on workable and manoeuvrable work. At present, it is too early to evaluate this measure on the ground. We can see that many sectors have already developed a collective agreement on the training objective, which is a good indication. Currently, the counter is at 57 collective agreements. I will also answer the questions of colleagues who are not here, because this may also interest colleagues present. There is Mr Gilkinet's question about the appointment of a social mediator, as requested by another colleague, and I have already replied. Our social mediators are at our disposal, but we have not yet received an application from Carrefour. In the press, certain workers have played the card of flexi-jobs, but this form of employment is neither the cause nor the cause of the announced restructuring in this file. This is a company that is trying to safeguard its market share in a highly competitive landscape of supermarkets and in the context of increasing online sales. I remember very well that in the discussions we had with the trade unions, they also referred to this. Are they going to recruit people for flexi jobs or have they already? I have already asked the board whether there were flexi-jobs and whether that intention was there. They said that they will not continue to work with flexi-jobs. Not only you but also we will of course follow up to what extent one will call upon it. I can only say that this point is very sensitive to the Carrefour trade unions. This may be re-examined in the consultations currently under way. Of course, I can't rule that out. In any case, it has been discussed, and I have put the question to the management. In reply to Mr Willaert's question, which is not here either, I can say the following. The social plan hasn't been completed yet. Of course, I cannot give details of a social plan that is not yet in place. Mrs Fonck, we have not yet received the final recommendations from the social partners, but I am happy to refer to the joint statement by the Group of Ten of 7 March 2018 regarding numeration as a key element of the work already started in the last interprofessional agreements. The partners rightly argue that everything requires a comprehensive, coherent, complementary and harmonious approach. I therefore assume that this can also be addressed further. One last element concerns the official figures that were delivered to my administration. As regards the number of employees in collective redundancies, there is no compulsory division per establishment. Further communication by the company itself about specific establishments can of course always happen. I also refer to an earlier remark that the information and consultation procedure is still under way and that it can and will be pursued as far as possible in the field of job retention. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. Firstly, we played the ball fairly quickly and invited both the management and the trade unions. It was very clear to the trade unions, apart from the public reactions, that they absolutely wanted to use the first phase of the Renaut Act to significantly reduce the number of announced redundancies. The first messages we receive, like you, go in that direction. A lot of jobs have been saved. That process is not over yet. We have offered to support them. If there are any questions to investigate, we are prepared to do so, but no specific question has yet been asked. If that question comes, we will make it absolutely a priority. Secondly, as far as the management is concerned, we have had a conversation with her and have stressed to her that we believe that the number of redundancies announced can be greatly reduced. It was also asked whether Belgium was more affected than France. This question has also been addressed. They tried to show that France was also badly hit, but there the final picture is still not clear. We have specifically asked what margin the management has here in Belgium in relation to its headquarters and whether it has sufficient room for manoeuvre. It has been emphasized that in Belgium 'freely autonomous' it is possible to deal with matters further and not simply to carry out the instructions. Thirdly, there is the Renault Act. In this respect, I like to see progress made, like many committee members, but I think that we should give all the opportunities and time to the social partners. That requires patience, not only from me, but also from you. As soon as the first phase is completed and there is a social plan, we will consider how we can respond to it and how we can work with the regions responsible for the employment cells and so on. I understand that Flanders but also Wallonia is ready. An Inter-Ministerial Conference was held. The Regions are ready to take over in that second phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u10	I am surprised that the minister did not address this request from Carrefour management. When we talk about flexibility, we think about flexi-jobs, but visibly the demand expressed in the works council was rather to bring all the workers of CP 312 into CP 202, the joint commission of department stores being a little more favourable. Did Carrefour's management tell you about it? I thought it was already a step further, because they are quite offensive in this matter. I will not expand further, because I have a lot to say about this matter on which we have already spoken in plenary, but this issue is of particular interest to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. You explained that the first phase of the Renault Act should be given every opportunity. Although many people have given up that first phase, I believe that we should take it seriously and give them every opportunity. Evolution shows that this pays off. I'm still a little hungry. It is good that you appoint social mediators and that your services are at your disposal, but we have been holding this debate for a long time, not only on the basis of Carrefour. We've been through several major closures. We have had hearings here in this committee on the Renault Act. In your reply, you indicated that in 2016 you were shocked when you said it, and sent a letter to the Group of Ten. We must, of course, be patient and there must be support for a change. However, I now have the impression that we have been waiting for two years. We didn't get an answer, and that's why there's nothing we can do. I would ask you, however, to be somewhat more ambitious on that point and not just to wait for an answer. I expect you to take a little more initiative to create a basis for support than simply sending a letter. After all, it is important. There are no major closures being discussed in the media now, but this does not mean that we should take this issue seriously. We can keep saying the same thing after every big announcement, but there has to be a time when that stops. I believe that we are making little progress here, and I would like to recommend or ask you to step up the gear and make an extra effort. Secondly, you replied to the story of the flexi-jobs. That was a legitimate concern on the part of the trade unions. We were not in favour of extending flexi-jobs. Your party wasn't in favour of that either at first. It was intended that this could be done in the catering industry. You agreed to that. However, these flexi-jobs should not replace full-time jobs. We'll have to watch for that. I would like to call on you to build in sufficient guarantees. Thirdly, there is another point that I know is not within your competence, but I would like to give it to you again. This whole story was just about whether we're going with time or not. Are the employees ready to shape the digitisation that is coming with it or not? We also experienced in ING's restructuring that the CEO said that people were only doing what they were used to doing. At Carrefour people say that digitization causes employees to lose their jobs. If we want to make people self-directed, we will have to take action and make people aware of it. I would like to call on you to deal with this, together with the regional ministers, and to work out an arrangement to make progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u12	If we want to deal with all the questions, I would ask you to be brief. A reply usually takes one minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u13	Mr President, I will not make full use of my minute to compensate my predecessor. Minister, our group is pleased that you have taken very firm action in this matter and that the trade unions play their role in this matter in a very serene and proper manner. We will, of course, follow it up further.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u14	Minister, I think I have been very attentive to your answer, because it was a very important subject. If I've been inattentive, you'll excuse me. However, you have quoted a series of cities. I asked you a very specific question about the Carrefour de Froyennes and I did not get any answers. You say it's all mixed up. How do you want to set up a procedure without having information about the real situation at the outset? Will there be redundancies in Froyennes? You didn't answer me. I put myself in the place of the workers of Froyennes. When you ask a question, you don't even hear the name Froyennes in the answer. I hope these people matter in your thinking. I have no doubt about that, but I am not at all satisfied with the answer. Actually, I didn't get an answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u15	Minister, we are in the first phase and we must give every chance to job-saving. We also know the habit of slightly increasing the figures of the initial announcement to then bring them down, even if the latter figures were already in the original plans. We will see whether there will be a significant reduction in the number of redundancies and whether Carrefour's management is in the same state of mind. Secondly, I come to the reform of the Renault law. You have given the social partners more time. Of which act! Nevertheless, I will make one suggestion: to strengthen the social mediator. Secondly, the social plan should be made compulsory, even if it does not yet say anything about its content. These two elements are in line with social consultation and do not favour the banks of employers or trade unions. I fear that discussions on the reform of the Renault law will continue and that we will reach the end of the legislature without having any feedback on it. It seems to me that strengthening the Social Ombudsman and making the social plan compulsory could be the subject of a vote and a legislative decision, or in any case a regulatory decision, without either of them taking a position. This goes in the direction of social consultation, which remains a fundamental basis in Belgium, in which we plead. I shall draw further attention to one point, for the second phase. Depending on the dismissals that will take place, I fear that women will be particularly affected. It will be important, indeed, with the Regions – it is not just the federal jurisdiction – that we be particularly proactive and attentive in terms of re-employability, and in particular on training.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u16	Mr President, I can give some answers to the supplementary questions. Mr Delannois, I have not received any information on your question. It's as simple as that!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u17	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u18	Yes, forgive me! I didn't say anything, because we asked for information without getting anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u19	Which is still quite challenging!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u20	I know, but I wrote down your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u21	Simply put yourself in the worker's place if, even to the minister, the information is not passed on. It's an inquisitive thing!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u22	Mrs Kitir, Madame Fonck, I come to a second point. I have presented to the social partners at various times what I would be accused of in committee with regard to the Renault Act. I'd be told I'm losing too much time without a change. In a subsequent restructuring involving a large number of employees, I would once again be asked why I did nothing. I have pointed this out to the social partners on several occasions, because I have seen this criticism coming from a long way, Mrs Kitir. After my letter of 2016 I didn't wait back. However, I have tried, and I will continue to do so, to encourage the social partners to do something as soon as possible. Mrs Fonck, it should be possible to move forward in two or three parts of the Renault law. For the rest, I leave it to the social partners to discuss more difficult issues. I will check what is acceptable to us and, above all, to the social partners. I agree with you, I can give time to the social partners, but the legislature is coming to an end soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u23	Minister, it is not the first time I have come to the committee with such a point. Apparently, it happens more often in our country now. A 24-hour strike took place in January in response to the resignation of an ABBV chief delegate at Vandemoortele in Seneffe on 22 December 2017. It concerns the dismissal of a protected worker without motive. The syndicated delegation demanded an immediate reintegration of the dismissed chief delegate. There has already been consultation between the social partners, but the management remains in line with its decision. In February, another syndicated action was organized and a discussion followed with the management. This, however, has not been achieved. Besides, it's not the first time this has happened. In 2013, a syndicated delegate was fired in the same company without motive. There have been many similar cases in recent months, in which syndicated representatives have been dismissed. I refer to the Red Cross, Mistral, Vesuvius, Family Help and so on. This is an alarming evolution: MEPs who are thrown out without reintegration, such as Vandemoortele and many others who do not make it to the news. Syndical protection and syndical rights are being called into question more and more. Recently, on Friday 13 April, the chairman of ADVV Antwerpen and a syndicated delegate had to answer to the court for having participated in a syndicated action in 2016. They risk five to ten years in jail because they would have obstructed traffic. Where are we going? The dismissal of this senior FGTB delegate at Vandemoortele leads me to ask you a few questions. Do you know how many union delegates were dismissed in 2017? Do such statistics exist in your department? Have you contacted Vandemoortele's management to request information on the subject? Are you going to put some pressure on the company to re-examine its decision? We have already dealt with the last issue recently on the occasion of the dismissal of a Red Cross delegate: do you not think that it would be time to legislate in such a way as to guarantee a right of reintegration and not only a right of dismissal which, obviously, has few safeguards in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u24	Mr Hedebouw, there are no statistics on the number of dismissals of union representatives. There is no obligation on employers to provide us with this type of information. As a result of the resignation of his chief delegate at Vandemoortele Seneffe, ADVV Horval requested an urgent conciliation meeting on 3 January 2018. The Reconciliation Office of the Joint Committee 118 for the Food Industry, the sector to which the company belongs, met at the Employment Office on 9 January 2018 under the chairmanship of the Chairman of the Joint Committee. Both Bureau members and employees' and management representatives were present. No solution has been found and the work ended with a report of non-reconciliation, as reintegration could not be considered from the point of view of the employer delegation. The employer considers that the dismissal of the representative of the staff is motivated by the fact that the person concerned repeatedly fails to comply with the agreements without any desire for improvement. At Vandemoortele Seneffe the work was then shut down for a day. Since then, activities have been resumed normally. Workers' representatives enjoy legal protection against dismissal. For the representatives of employees in the works council and in the committee for prevention and protection at work, this protection is determined by the law of 19 March 1991. As far as the trade union delegation is concerned, the status of trade union delegate was established by the social partners in a collective agreement. The collective agreement No. 5 on the statute of the trade union delegates of the employees of the undertakings established in the National Labour Council of 24 May 1971 lays down the essential principles governing the competence and operating procedures of the trade union delegation. That agreement lays down the procedure to be followed for the dismissal of a trade union delegate and the penalties to be applied in the event of unlawful dismissal. In the present case, the Member dismissed is free to try to assert his position by lodging a complaint with the labour court, possibly with the support of his trade union.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u25	Minister, we have already discussed the substance of the matter last week. We may not agree on the importance of ensuring an obligation to reintegrate. The procedure at the court level could only possibly lead to compensation, without the obligation of reinstatement. In the version you gave, the company boss says this. The company's patronate indicates that the agreements were not met. The discussion is, of course, about the agreements that were made. Apparently, there are also agreements about working conditions within the company. In that sense, arbitrariness reigns. It's kind of the arbitrariness that reigns. In any case, Minister, if we want a real democracy in companies, the workers who are exposed to them must be able to be protected. Once it is estimated that becoming a union delegate is more likely to be dismissed, no one will apply for such a position. This is the basis of the democracy that was built in companies after the Second World War. In France, there is an obligation to reintegrate. In any event, it is really time for an independent body to decide whether a dismissal is justified or whether it is an arbitrary dismissal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u26	Debates of the European Parliament 23606 by Mr Luk Van Biesen expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u27	Minister, on Wednesday 7 February, employees at Volvo Cars Gent were fired after they had spontaneously laid down the work. The workers of Volvo Cars Gent have been unhappy for a long time because of the pressure of work and the hyperflexibleness required of workers in certain departments. In fact, when I visited, I often heard talk about you and about the laws that make work in the sector more flexible. Around two hundred employees decided to drop the work spontaneously, to which Volvo responded with the immediate dismissal of nine employees involved. Those were workers who made the record profit of 1.4 billion euros for Volvo Cars possible in 2017, by working hard and flexible, by knocking overtime on Saturdays and Sundays, by delivering quality. Some have been working there for more than eight years and have not been ill for a whole year, but are still being fired immediately. The reason is that they have dared to participate, with more than 200 other colleagues, in a spontaneous strike action. "Legally Volvo catapults employees more than fifty years back in time," writes Professor of Labour Law Jan Buelens in an opinion piece in De Standaard of 12 February 2018. I quote: 'Until 1967 there was still doubt whether a strike triggered the end of the contract of employment. In 1967, in a judgment, the Court of Cassation developed a crystal clear reasoning: the employee does not seek to terminate the contract of employment, but merely pursues its temporary suspension. What Volvo did goes flagrantly against the right to strike." That's how the professor decides. I have the following questions, Minister. The workers in question are covered by the right to strike. Will you urge the management of Volvo Cars Ghent to rehire the employees? What measures are you prepared to take to prohibit such unlawful dismissals? How do you assess the proposal to create a Volvo Act, with the aim of banning abuse of the right of dismissal and protecting workers who exercise the right to strike?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u28	Mr Hedebouw, this is probably the last file for today in connection with redundancies. There was a spontaneous break at Volvo Cars on Wednesday 31 January 2018 at the morning shift by non-organised workers who have left their post in an attempt to convince others to drop the work. This group of workers, including employees of subcontractors and interim companies, has never been more than 70 people and has almost immediately been reduced to some 20 people who do not wish to work. Some media falsely reported an action of 200 employees. Moreover, the action took place in a limited department of the factory, was not announced by means of a strike notice and was without the knowledge or consent of the syndicated delegation in the company. Those involved refused to discuss the motives of their discontent, not only with their direct managers, but also with the trade union delegates on the work floor. It cannot be said that, in the context of the facts, the workers concerned were covered by the right to strike. The rules laid down in the event of a strike were not followed and the unwillingness of a few was in no way covered in this case, even afterward, by the syndicated delegation in the company. There is therefore only an individual lack of willingness to work. In my opinion, the 16 individual redundancies at Volvo Cars should also be nuanced. This includes employees of sub-contractors of Volvo Cars, interim workers and temporary workers with non-long-term contracts of employment. Finally, there were also a number of terminations of some contracts of indefinite duration by termination according to the applicable motives. Therefore, on the basis of all the information I have received, it is not certain that in the present case it would be effective for unlawful dismissals. With the present knowledge of the facts, this is certainly not the case and therefore premature. Moreover, the current legal framework on dismissal rules and obligation to state reasons in individual employment relationships in this area is collective agreement No. 109 on the grounds of dismissal. The review of individual cases under the relevant legal framework falls within the jurisdiction of the court.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u29	Minister, without doubting all the information you have received, it is important to remember that the right to strike is an individual right in our country. It is not because a trade union does not recognize the strike that this right does not exist. This is commonly referred to as a wild strike. If in our social history the habit had been taken to dismiss those who participated in strikes not recognized by a trade union organization, there would have been thousands of unemployed people because people would have been laid off. Let us admit, and history is much more nuanced than that, that there was no immediate recognition, in any case, these workers, who were not in days of production, did not come to work, sabotaged the work, these hard-working workers were in a collective framework of movement. From then on, the right to strike is infringed, which constitutes a danger. Testimony attests to this. You're saying they're not all Volvo layoffs. It's worse! I did not want to add to such a dramatic situation at the outset, but some workers, who are acting or subcontracting, took their courage by two hands to express themselves within the company. If they have not been dismissed, their contract has simply stopped. This clearly shows the "two-way, two-way" nature of workers' rights. Minister, what is happening right now is not good. It's time to step in.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u30	Minister, in October last year I asked to delete the condition to have to live with the child in order to have the right to a complete interruption of work for the duration of a week in order to provide assistance to a minor child during or shortly after the hospitalisation of that child. I asked that in order to ensure that, in situations where the parents are divorced, the parent in whom the child is not dominated can also exercise that right. You replied to me that the law actually allows that leave to be granted to the other parent because living with a child cannot only be demonstrated by direct debit. This can also be done in other legal ways, for example by a court decision governing co-parenting. That too can serve as evidence. If the parent in whom the child is not dominated can prove that the child is living with him for certain specific periods of time, in your opinion, the RVA would take that into account in the decision he makes. In addition, you indicated that you would examine with the RVA whether the regional offices should be given additional instructions on this because in practice there had been some problems in the field. In the meantime, have you been able to sit with the RVA about that? Did you have the opportunity to discuss that? Are the instructions delivered to the offices of the RVA, so that there will be no doubt about this in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u31	Mr Lanjri, I can answer very briefly. I hope you will also be very pleased with my brief answer. On 19 December 2017, the Teaching on the admission of medical assistance leave for a hospitalised minor child at the RVA offices was clarified. From now on, it is assumed that both divorced parents of the minor child can take medical leave at the same time without prejudice to the cascade scheme provided for by law. This therefore covers cases where the problem you have described arises.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u32	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased to note that questions from Members on matters that go wrong in practice encourage you to consult with the authorities concerned and to clarify this in an instruction, as is the case at present. I assume that there should no longer be any problem on the ground and that both parents, even if they do not live together, can take that leave during or after the hospitalisation of the child and that there should no longer be any choice. After all, that was a heartbreaking choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u33	Mr Minister, an employee has the right to suspend the performance of his or her work or to reduce his or her work in order to devote himself to the palliative care of a person suffering from an incurable illness. This person doesn't have to be a relative, it could be a neighbor or a friend. Each worker may suspend the employment benefits in full for a maximum period of one month per patient. If you work full-time, you can reduce your work performance by one fifth or half for a maximum period of one month per patient. If you work part-time and have a minimum of three-quarters of your employment, you may reduce your benefits to half of your full-time employment during a maximum period of one month per patient. This maximum period of one month may be extended twice by one month each. That's a recent decision. A worker wishing to exercise his right to palliative leave must submit a certificate from the treating physician of the person requiring palliative care to his employer. This certificate must show that the worker has declared his willingness to take on this palliative care without indicating the identity of the patient. If the worker wishes to make use of the possibility of extending his leave by one month, such a certificate shall be submitted again. That's pretty cumbersome. In addition, an employee has the right to suspend the performance of his contract of employment in full or to reduce his employment with a view to assisting or caring for a severely ill family member. Each worker may suspend the employment benefits in full for a maximum period of 12 months per patient. Any full-time worker may reduce the work performance by one fifth or half for a period of twenty-four months per patient. Any part-time worker whose normal average working hours per week are at least three quarters of the average full-time working hours of a full-time worker may reduce the employment benefits to half of a full-time employment during a maximum period of twenty-four months. These interruptions must be made with periods of at least one month and a maximum of three months. A worker wishing to exercise his right to leave for medical assistance must submit an application to his employer together with a certificate from the treating physician of the person for whom medical assistance leave is sought. As long as the maximum duration per severely ill patient is not reached, a new period of medical leave may be requested. To that end, each application for renewal shall be submitted in the same way as the first application. Mr Minister, both for the extension of palliative leave and for the extension of medical leave, the whole procedure should therefore be re-examined and further certificates should be requested from the treating physician, leading to additional administrative burdens, both for the employer and for the employee. I have the following questions. Do you see any possibility of simplifying the procedures for renewal? Can regulatory adjustments be made so that palliative leave and medical leave can be applied for immediately for a longer period, especially if, for example, the doctor already knows that a patient needs at least two or three months' leave for medical assistance or palliative leave? If it is more than one month and the doctor can explain that longer period, can this be done without exceeding the maximum time limits? For the sake of clarity, I am not asking for the deadlines to be extended or for more leave to be granted. I am simply asking for administrative simplification within the law. Can one, for example, allow the time limit to be set by the treating physician, without affecting the minimum and, of course, maximum periods laid down? Do you share our view that the adjustment can also benefit employers, as they will be better able to estimate, where appropriate, whether an employee will be absent for a longer period of time? It is amazing that an employer assumes, for example, that the absence will last only one month, after which the period will be extended three times in a row. In this case, the employer is better off if he can immediately look for someone for three months. After all, looking for someone for one month is much more difficult than looking for someone for a period of three months or for a period of six months. Are you prepared to take initiatives in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lanjri, palliative leave and medical leave are rights that an employee can exercise without the employer being able to refuse that right. However, as you know, the employee must meet a number of conditions. These conditions are rather limited, because of the nature of the leave concerned and its underlying purpose. It is important that they aim at achieving a certain balance between, on the one hand, the interests of the worker wishing to provide for a sick person and, on the other hand, the interests of the employer concerned with the proper functioning of his undertaking. The mandatory inclusion in separate blocks of one month's periods of palliative leave and periods of at least one month and a maximum of three months in the case of medical assistance, with the obligation to apply to the employer at the first admission and at each renewal, together with a new medical certificate from the treating physician, should also be included in that view. The medical certificate shall prove to the employer that the worker concerned has declared himself willing to provide care to a terminally ill person in the case of palliative leave or, in the case of medical leave, to provide assistance and care to a seriously ill family member. Well, in many cases, the treating physician will only be able to make a snapshot of the needs of the sick person concerned when drawing up such a certificate. It is clear that these needs are evolutionary. It will also be possible that at some point persons other than the worker will also be responsible for the care of the person concerned. These are elements that the treating doctor can take into account in his assessment of whether or not to deliver such a medical certificate. The question arises as to how the proposed simplification of the procedure can provide the same balance and guarantees. In this connection, we also note that the social partners in the National Labour Council have recently, even in the context of their collective agreement No. 103 on time-credit, in relation to the medical certificate required in the context of a reasoned time-credit for medical assistance. In addition to stating that the employee has declared himself willing to provide assistance or care to a seriously ill person, the treating physician should also indicate since 1 April 2017 that the carer actually needs a full-time, half-time or a fifth-time break or career reduction, in addition to any professional support that the family member can count on. Moreover, at the request of the social partners, the same stringency was also applied in the framework of the Royal Decree of 10 August 1998 on leave for medical assistance. This stringing shall apply to applications submitted from 1 June 2017. This answer may not be as positive as the previous one. However, I have tried to formulate an answer with text and explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I must honestly say that, of course, I have no problem with any entanglements that are intended to remove any abuses. That has to be clear. I believe that everyone has the same concern and who am I to contradict the social partners. These were examples I heard on the radio. If, for example, one cares for a terminally ill child who is known to have six months to live, then it is really absurd that one has to repeat these requests over and over again. This also applies if one takes care of one's terminally ill mother, who is known to have six months to live, for example. If we share this concern with sisters and brothers, and if we suddenly want to apply for leave for two months, why should we not? That's important to that group. I believe that any abuses should be dealt with. In fact, I read that it is not even necessary to mention which patient is being cared for. Therefore, improvements can certainly be made to the system, but on both sides, including administrative simplification for those who do not abuse the system. I would ask you to look at this aspect again, possibly with the social partners, very clearly directed at the group for which there is no doubt, with a doctor's certificate. If the doctor recommends two months instead of one month, do it all of a sudden for two months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u36	I want to do everything, especially for that emotional period, but I also think very few doctors say to anyone that he or she has six months to live, and that they certify that. There, too, there may be the problem that when doctors set a time limit, that time limit is sometimes exceeded or not met, thank God. That is a very delicate matter, including for the physician in question. At least I'll take it with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u37	This should only be done in cases where the doctor is sure. If the doctor himself is in doubt, he shouldn't. I'm not asking the doctor to go against his vision. Suppose it's just about repairing and not palliative patients, and that repair lasts at least X number of months, shouldn't it be possible? For example, medical leave may include severely ill children who have to recover for at least six months. If necessary, the doctor can certify that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u38	Minister, I asked a question about the au pairs a while ago. In any case, we know that the au pair system has actually been set up to give young people the chance to know the language and culture of a particular country and that it is certainly not intended to involve au pairs as nannys, babysitters or even cleaning staff or servicemen. Au pairs are allowed to do light domestic work. It is laid down by law that this may be a maximum of four hours a day, i.e. a maximum of twenty hours a week. In addition, the host family must agree to grant supervisory officials access to the home in order to carry out an inspection. Figures from the Flemish Labour Inspectorate show that 72% of host families are working on the rules. It is clear from the testimonials that the employment aspect often takes precedence over cultural education and exchange and that the au pair status is used as a channel for legal labour migration, which was never the intention. Sometimes there is no language or cultural aspect at all. Sometimes one has exceeded age and one thinks that one can stay in the country as an au pair. We have included in the federal government agreement that the government, in consultation with the Regions, is taking the initiative to combat abuses within the au pair statute. In this context, I would like to ask you the following questions. What measures have already been taken against the abuse of au pairs? Have you already consulted the Secretary of State responsible for Asylum and Migration and your fellow ministers in the regions? I know they're working on it in Flanders, among other things. Are there any changes to the statute in the short term? It remains problematic that au pair agencies do not need recognition to be allowed to act as mediator or intermediary between the candidate au pair and the candidate host family. Will measures be taken in the short term to ensure that au pair agencies are recognised? Of course, you should also talk to your colleagues from the regions about this. What adjustments should be made to the Statute in order to avoid the employment aspect becoming the main objective of residence? Are there measures in place to ensure that cultural exchanges remain the most important aspect in addition to education? If so, which one? One has to keep the two apart. The au pair status is not intended as a channel for labour migration. Is it desirable, in your view, to abolish the programme and replace it with a system of cultural exchange, where young people are not dependent on a host family, and so they should not work for it? On the positive side of the au pair statute, in order to qualify as a host family, it is necessary to allow the supervisory officials to enter the home so that the living and working conditions of au pairs can be checked. However, the Social Inspectorate does not have access to housing to control the working conditions of domestic workers, another category. On 22 June 2016, I asked you whether it was possible to apply the regulations for the au pairs to domestic staff. This too has to do with a lot of problems, but they often do not come out because the inspection does not have access to the house. You replied to my question that there was consultation with the High Council for Prevention and Protection at Work (HRPBW) on how to apply welfare legislation to domestic workers in accordance with Convention 189 of the International Labour Organisation. Have those talks been concluded? What recommendations has the HRPBW made on this issue? Which will be implemented? What period will the legislation be amended if it proves necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u39	Mr Lanjri, before the sixth state reform, the federal government was legally competent for foreign workers, but the Regions were already in charge of executive powers. That's how they delivered the work cards. As part of the Sixth State Reform, the legislative power for foreign workers has largely shifted to the Regions. However, the federal government has remained competent for foreign workers in a specific residence situation. In general terms, the regions have become legally competent for economic migration. The Federal Government remains competent to determine whether foreigners residing in Belgium are allowed to work for other reasons. These are mainly asylum seekers, persons with a long-term right of residence, family members and students. However, the power to determine whether a foreign national may work as an au pair is distinct from the power to regulate au pairing. European Directive 2016/801 defines the au pair as "a third-country national admitted to the territory of a Member State in order to be temporarily included in a family, with the aim of improving the language skills and knowledge of the Member State in question in exchange for light domestic work and care of children'. On the basis of that definition, it seems to me that the au pairing of cultural matters for which the Communities are competent is to be carried out. However, it is up to the Communities themselves to decide whether they have competence in a specific matter and whether they intend to act in it. I therefore wrote to the Ministers-Presidents of the Communities for the first time in October 2017. Since I have still not received a position, I will shortly address a new letter to the Prime Ministers. You can see I write a lot of letters. That's good for bpost. When I write a letter, I hope that something will come back, both from the social partners and from the prime ministers. However, I will write a new letter, because it is only after the Communities have taken a position that we can see what the federal government can do to improve existing legislation. So I would like to do that, but first I need to know which domain the Communities are taking for themselves. Once again, I assume that, unfortunately, it is not a top priority for the Communities and that this is one of the reasons why they have not replied to it since October 2017, that is, with caution, a while ago. In the meantime, the current scheme for au pairs remains in force. Au pairs who come from a country outside the European Union must have a work permit which they can only obtain if certain rules are complied with. Not only the regional, but also the federal inspection services are competent to check the work cards. That aspect is positive, because they have already been together on this issue. In view of the important competence of the regional inspection services to ensure compliance with the conditions of work permits for au pairs, checks are carried out mainly by the regional inspection services. If the audit reveals that the conditions of the au pairship are not being complied with and that it is in reality a contract of employment, the contract may be requalified as an employment contract, which means that the minimum wage is due and social contributions must be paid to the RSZ. In this case, the findings can be passed on to the federal inspection services for further effect. As far as the amendments to the legislation are concerned, the Welfare Act has already been adapted to the obligations of domestic workers in accordance with the ILO Convention, but consultations between the social partners on the further development are still ongoing within the High Council for Prevention and Protection at Work. There too, steps have been taken. To sum up, it's a non-important issue. We hope that we will receive a response from the Communities as soon as possible, so that we can continue to work at federal level. We are prepared to act on this as soon as possible. Fortunately, the inspection services have already agreed on who's doing what. As far as welfare work is concerned, the proposal has been formulated in accordance with the ILO and hopefully the High Council for Prevention and Protection at Work will give its opinion on it during the next period.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u40	Minister, sometimes one has to have patience in politics. I may be too impatient a politician. We recorded this point in the coalition agreement a few years ago and I notice that things are going very slowly on the ground. The regions have been given more powers, but do not yet fully deal with them. It is still the responsibility of the federal government for so long, but in the meantime there have been abuses and people are being exploited. For example, they are used for matters not covered by the au pair statute. You wrote a letter. You're going to write a second one now. But I also think it is time for the prime ministers to wake up and get to work. You have told me that the inspection is already under control and that the minimum wage is due when they find that the employment aspect prevails. I hope that's not the end of it. I hope it also means that it is illegal. One cannot just send a third-country national to our country to do domestic work here. You can't just do that. Of course, these people need to be compensated. This means the end of the residence permit but also a fine. I hope that the host family that commits abuse will also be fined. Is there any provision for that? Otherwise, of course, it is the easiest way. One brings someone here as an au pair, one puts him or her to work with some pocket money as a poor fee, and one only risks having to pay a proper fee, namely the minimum wage, if one is indeed caught. That would still be wrong. Shouldn't there be a fine on that, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u41	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u42	Those are people who are not illegal here, they have a residence permit as au pair. However, an au pair must not be employed. They're violating the law, aren't they? It's not enough to say that they just have to pay their wages, is it? After all, that is what some want, they want a housemaid or domestic staff. However, this is not foreseen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u43	When it comes to Europeans, it is somewhat different than when it comes to people from outside Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u44	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u45	It seems clear to me that there are additional sanctions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u46	Questions Nos 23665 and 23666 by Mrs Kitir are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u47	Mr President, Minister, the Council of Ministers of 28 September 2017 discussed, among other things, the status of the income guarantee. In application of the programme law of 22 December 1989, the employer is obliged to offer, as a matter of priority, additional hours available for the same job to part-time workers who benefit from an income guarantee and who are already employed. From 1 January 2018, a response fee of 25 euros per month was introduced to cover the employer per part-time employee receiving an IGU if the employer has not offered these additional hours available within a period of one year. This response contribution is only due for part-time employees with an IGU recruited after 1 January 2018 insofar as the volume of working hours for the same job within the company has increased. At the same time, it was agreed to carry out a systematic review of compliance with the obligation for part-time workers benefiting from an IGU from 1 January 2018 to accept an offer to increase their working time. Part-time employees with an IGU who refuse such an offer will no longer be able to enjoy the IGU. Employers must also comply with the obligation to offer additional hours available for the same job as a priority to part-time workers with IGU. Consultations will be held with the regions on the organisation of control. I would have liked the Minister to answer the following questions. Firstly, what results have been achieved in the framework of the consultation with the Regions on the organisation of IGU control? Secondly, have controls already been carried out? Were part-time workers checked with the IGU benefit who refused to accept an offer to increase their working time? Were there any employers who did not offer additional hours for the same job as a priority to part-time employees with IGU?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for several years the Regions have been empowered to check the passive availability of part-time workers receiving the income guarantee and who have been registered as full-time job seekers by offering them full-time work or part-time work to supplement their part-time schedule. As a result of the sixth state reform, the Regions can now take decisions on exclusion or sanctioning when they find that a part-time employee with an IGU is not available for the full-time labour market. The sixth state reform has also resulted in the Region's being able to monitor active availability in future as well as actively seeking employment for part-time workers. The Royal Decree of 14 December 2015 establishes the normative federal framework and the modalities of this control. For part-time workers with an income guarantee benefit, that Decision entered into force on 1 September 2016. After the Regions have developed the IT tools necessary to implement this control, they have carried out this control since 2017. The results of the checks on the availability of the year 2017 will soon be available. I assume you are already preparing to ask a question on this matter. I will then make the necessary contacts to start consultations with my colleagues from the Regions. With regard to employers' obligation to offer additional hours, you correctly point out that a response contribution of EUR 25 per month is now foreseen. This contribution shall be payable in two cases: firstly, in the case of non-writing, priority must be given to additional hours available to the part-time worker receiving unemployment benefits and who has applied for a full-time employment or another part-time employment, whether or not additional, and secondly, in the case of non-delivery as a priority of the additional hours available to the part-time worker receiving unemployment benefits, if he has applied for them. This amendment was included in the Programme Act of 25 December 2017. Our services work together with the RSZ on the implementing decision laying down the detailed rules and modalities. It is too early to assess the impact of this measure. Since it is only one year after the introduction of the response contribution that it can be verified whether more hours were available within a company and whether these were offered primarily to employees with an income guarantee benefit, this response contribution can be imposed at the earliest in 2019 where necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u49	Thank you for that answer. This shows that you are following the dossier, and we will do so with you. I understand we should wait until 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u50	Mr Minister, this is a rather short question. On 28 September 2017, the Council of Ministers discussed, among other things, the activation policy for 50-plussers. It was then agreed to seek an opinion from the National Labour Council by December 2017 on the activation policy for 50-plussers and to develop, in consultation with the Regions, measures to promote activation policies for 50-plussers. These measures would be submitted to the Consultation Committee. Minister, what advice did the NAR deliver on activation policy for 50-plussers? What measures were or are being developed in consultation with the Regions to promote this important activation policy for 50-plussers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u51	Mr Van der Donkt, I can inform you that after consultation on this dossier with the Prime Minister's cabinet on 4 April 2018, an opinion was requested from the NAR. They asked what measures they were proposing to encourage 50-plussers to stay on the job. In addition, proposals were asked to allow the job seeker or inactive 50-plussers to take up the job and to encourage employers to retain or hire them. As you know, the supervision of older jobseekers has been the responsibility of the regions since 1988. Since 1 January 2016, it is the VDAB, Forem, ADG and Actiris and no longer the RVA that control and sanction the availability of the unemployed in their field of office. Sometimes people forget to mention that they are also competent for the latter. That control shall be carried out in compliance with the normative framework that remains federal. This normative framework distinguishes three target groups according to the control procedure applicable to them. It concerns the total unemployed under 60, the total unemployed aged 60 and over and the unemployed who receive a farm allowance and, finally, the part-time workers who retain rights. Until the age of 60, the older unemployed must be actively available. This means, on the one hand, that the older unemployed under 60 years of age participates actively and positively and participates in the measures of guidance, training, professional experience or involvement proposed to him by the regional employment services. On the other hand, the older unemployed under 60 years of age must actively look for work by regularly taking varied actions. It's about active and passive availability. From 60 years onwards, the unemployed person must be available adapted. He should no longer actively look for work, but he should be registered as a job seeker and continue to participate in personalised guidance tailored to his individual abilities, his physical and mental abilities and to the professional experience he already has and which correspond to the needs of the market. Except in the case of exemption, the adjusted availability system shall also apply to the unemployed person receiving a single payment, the SWT. Personalised guidance is proposed to the unemployed person, in accordance with the federal framework, no later than the ninth month following the beginning of this unemployment or from the age of 60, if he was already unemployed for at least nine months at the time. At the latest one year after the start of personalised guidance, an overall assessment of the adapted availability will be made to determine whether the unemployed person has contributed positively to the actions proposed to him. The RVA, together with the competent regional institutions, has submitted a report on the application of the delegated powers for the entire year 2017. This report also contains the necessary statistical information. If you don't have it yet, it's also on the website of the RVA. It's very interesting. With regard to the older unemployed under 60 years of age, which must therefore be actively available, the report shows that all regional institutions are making efforts for this group to reintegrate them into the labour market and that they are also evaluating the efforts made. For example, in the 50 to 59 age group in 2017 41 546 unemployed were evaluated by the VDAB, 14 368 by Forem, 14 856 by Actiris and 266 by the Arbeitsamt, which is responsible for the German-speaking community. The situation is different for the age group over 60, which needs to be adapted to be available. Because of the high youth unemployment in their regions, Forem and Actiris gave priority to the supervision and control of young people. In December 2017, Forem started to follow up on this customized availability and sent out information letters to 335 unemployed people in that month. Actiris announced that it would not start until July 2018 to monitor its custom availability. The Arbeitsamt also has to start following up the adjusted available older unemployed. In Flanders, 8 183 unemployed persons aged at least 60 years were accompanied in 2017 by the VDAB. From 4 533 of them, efforts were already evaluated in 2017. For all, this led to a positive evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u53	Minister, the government agreement provides for the introduction of a career account that enables employees to accumulate time and/or pay. On 24 October 2017, you replied to my question in committee: "In relation to career savings, the legal framework provides for a subsidiary scheme, which would enter into force on 1 August 2017 if no collective agreement on career savings had been concluded at that time in the National Labour Council. However, the date of 1 August could be extended by a Royal Decree for six months. The latter took place through the Royal Decree of 25 June 2017. In concrete terms, this means that the National Labour Council will have until 1 February 2018 to draw up its own rules on career savings. This approach and timing was requested by the social partners and was motivated by a number of concerns and concerns about the legal framework on career savings. The relevant discussions in the National Labour Council are still under way. Of course, it remains to be seen whether the time available to the social partners will be sufficient to reach an agreement. To date, no sector has developed any initiative regarding the conventional grant of leave." So much for the quote. Minister, I would like to take stock of this part of the coalition agreement. What implementation has it already been given? Was there a collective agreement on career savings in the NAR? If so, what is the content? If not, has the subsidiary scheme actually entered into force? How does it proceed in concrete terms? Has sectoral or sub-sectoral progress been made on conventional leave? If so, what is the outcome? If not, what is the further procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u54	Mr Van der Donkt, the law on workable and manoeuvrable work provides for private sector workers and employers with a legal framework for career savings, which would enter into force on 1 February 2018 and can be activated by the sectors from that date. However, the legal framework will lapse if the social partners, represented in the National Labour Council, themselves develop a scheme on career savings before 1 February 2018. In the meantime, it appears that the social partners have not reached agreement in the National Labour Council and that they have therefore not developed their own rules on career savings, which is very regrettable. As a result, the legal framework entered into force on 1 February 2018. In concrete terms, this means that the sectors will be able to activate the measures of career savings from 1 February 2018 through the conclusion of a collective agreement setting out a sectoral framework. Sectors will have six months to conclude a collective agreement from the time of referral. The referral may be made by an organisation represented on the Joint Committee or by an individual undertaking. In the absence of sectoral activation within the six-month period, undertakings in the sector concerned shall be allowed to activate the measure of career savings themselves through the conclusion of a collective agreement. So that's the cascade system. It is only after the activation and impact of the measure at sectoral and/or enterprise level that the workers concerned will be able to benefit from the measure. According to the information available to me at the moment, no referrals have yet been made to the sectors, either for career savings or for the conventional grant of leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u55	Thank you, Minister. We will return to the item in six months' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u56	Mr President, Minister, in February, Secretary of State De Backer launched the proposal to permanently screen dock workers in the context of tackling drug criminality in the port of Antwerp. These permanent screenings were not included in the Power Plan proposed and approved by the government. Minister, what measures are in place today in the port of Antwerp to tackle the problem of drug punishment? Do you think that a permanent screening of dock workers can provide relief to deal with drug criminality? What is your opinion on that? What is the government's view, given that permanent screening of dock workers is not part of the Power Plan? You are in contact with your Dutch colleagues about how to deal with drug punishment in Rotterdam. What measures are in force in the port of Rotterdam? Can we possibly be inspired by this? You indicated that you would also consult with employers and employees. Has that meeting taken place yet? I assume so, because two months have passed since the oral question was tabled. What is the outcome of this consultation? What slopes are the employers and employees pushing forward to dive into drug punishment?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u57	Mr President, Minister, the Stroomplan stipulates that the local police, the federal police, the public prosecutor and the public prosecutor, the social and fiscal inspection services and the Social Security Service of the city of Antwerp will join forces to take action against drug punishment in the port. Companies are given the opportunity to have people who want to take up a corruption-sensitive position or who are already in positions screened through national security authorities. These functions are, of course, spread across several joint committees. I therefore have the following questions. Is there social dialogue with all these actors? What is the state of play with regard to consultation on this very difficult issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Klaps, it is good to see you. I hope you're fully recovered from the heavy Ten Miles of Sunday. I've read a lot about that, but you're looking good, so that's going in the right direction. It was tough. I understand that you are announcing a sharp time next year that will surprise everyone. I'm also trying to prepare for next year. I come to the subject of your question. For the police and judicial approach to drug punishment in Antwerp, and more specifically for the state of play of the Stroomplan, my colleagues in the Justice and Home Affairs Department have a lot of powers. I understand that you are asking me questions in the context of the involvement of the social partners. I will try to focus on this, so that I do not fall out of my role, which might not be appreciated. Allow me to emphasise that in port much more workers and self-employed people are employed than only the authorized port workers. Speaking about screening only this group is not only stigmatizing, but also inefficient. If a screening is to be carried out, it seems to me that it should be based on a risk analysis and not all port workers come into contact with sensitive tramps. A lot of others will get in touch with it. So one has to deal with this with nuanced and careful. If we look at port workers, there are many opportunities that already allow us today to tackle risks. A first filter on this issue is found in the Royal Decree of 5 July 2004, which lays down the conditions for the approval of port workers. This decision stipulates that candidate port workers must be of good conduct and morals in order to be recognised. They should therefore submit a recent extract from the criminal record. In addition, the social partners are also making efforts to combat all drug trafficking and drug abuse. If it is established in fact that a port worker is involved in drug trafficking, the Administrative Commission composed of representatives of the employers and workers from the port considers this to be a serious deficiency which breaks the necessary relationship of trust with the port community. Consequently, the recognition of this worker is withdrawn. This is comparable to the Article 35 of the Employment Contract Act of 3 July 1978. It is also sometimes the case that in the event of conditional release, the investigating judge imposes a port ban on the worker concerned. Then, of course, his recognition will be suspended and he will not be able to work in port for the time being, for the duration of the ban. An employee involved in such facts is asked to deliver a possible conviction or acquittal to the Administrative Commission so that he can assess the case. Of course, the administrative committee must be aware of the facts. This information comes in through various channels, sometimes anonymously, sometimes via the courthouse, sometimes because an employee does not come in for remand. Moreover, the scope of Cepa's existing digital hotline to anonymously report suspicious acts has been extended to the entire port community very recently. Alfaport Voka, the umbrella of the port employers, has now put his shoulders under the initiative and fully supports it. There is even a website for, www.ourhavendrugsfree.be. The information that arrives on this website will be transmitted directly and in such a way as to ensure that the informant will be transmitted completely anonymously to the specialised police services for further prosecution. The social partners as such are not involved in the discussions on the Streamplan. The port employers are involved. In regular social consultations they informed the unions of port workers that once the implementation of the Streamplan would result in measures affecting port workers or requiring an adaptation of legislation or collective agreements, this would be formally discussed in the social dialogue. At present, however, this is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Our Antwerp harbor runs record after record. New quarterly figures were published, again with a very sharp increase in container traffic. It's just there that the problem of drugs usually occurs. In practice, of course, we often remain stuck with a post factum policy. If there's a conviction of someone who works there, it'll be reported somehow. Sometimes there is little structure in that system and we need to think about how we can streamline it, so that we no longer get word that someone is able to stay at work in sensitive places for a long time, even though he has already received convictions. We must all ensure that this does not happen again. I am waiting to see how this will take shape, but I am glad that you are convinced of the urgency of this important dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u61	Questions Nos 23999 by Mrs Willaert and 24420 by Mr Hedebouw lapsed. Questions Nos 24176 and 24205 by Mrs Galant have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u62	Mr Minister, at the moment, the current legislation applicable to the private sector only allows a worker to take leave in the event of illness during the holiday if he or she becomes disabled before the holiday begins. In other words, if an employee becomes ill before the holiday, the holidays that coincide with the days of incapacity for work can be transferred. However, if the worker becomes ill during the holiday, the performance of his employment contract has already been suspended because of his annual leave. The worker is then considered to be on holiday and not as unfit for work. He may not take up the holidays corresponding to the days of incapacity for work later. However, as early as 2012, the Court of Justice ruled that the objective of the annual holiday is to enable the employee to rest and have a period of relaxation and leisure. In this way, this objective differs from the objective of the right to sick leave which enables the worker to recover from a disease leading to incapacity for work. As a result: the worker who becomes unfit for work during his annual leave has the right to take this holiday at a later date for the duration of his illness and regardless of the time when the incapacity for work took effect. In other words, the legislation of that country has been in contradiction with European case law in this area for six years. In fact, you have recently asked the social partners to draw up a new regulation. In doing so, workers who become ill during their holidays could take up these holidays at a later date if they submit a certificate. A critical point here is who will have to bear these additional costs. Normally, the employer pays the guaranteed wage during the first month of illness. However, employers' organisations would insist that the government pay a benefit in this situation. Minister, I have a number of questions about this. Why does it take six years after the Court of Justice's ruling to take action to bring the legislation into line with European case law? How much time do the social partners have to reach an agreement? In the absence of an agreement, will you come forward with your own proposal within the deadline? How will a control mechanism be developed to prevent any abuses? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u63	This morning there was a meeting on this question. The social partners have already met several times on this issue in the NAR's individual employment and social security committees in recent years. Given the tradition of social dialogue in our country and the specificity and complexity of the Belgian holiday scheme, the search for a satisfactory solution takes time. If you ever have the ambition to become the Minister of Work, then you must exercise a great deal of patience in advance. Otherwise, you won't last. Since 2016, contacts between my cabinet and the European Commission have been intensified to ensure, on the one hand, that Belgian legislation is correctly interpreted and perceived by the European authorities and, on the other hand, to assess whether or not our current legislation complies with the European directive. In the meantime, two meetings have already taken place between the Policy Cell and the Directorate of the Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion Department of the European Commission. In addition, the numerous written contacts provided a clear overview of the work of the policy cell and the state of play of the results of the social partners' negotiations. At the NAR session on 23 March 2018, both banks decided that a letter should be sent to the European Commission to see a number of outstanding questions answered by the European Commission itself. I received the letter on 5 April 2018, so even more recently, and immediately forwarded it to the competent management. A further meeting is planned to discuss jointly the European Commission's reply to the letter. We hope to get an answer soon. Today, the European Commission's response was also discussed in the National Labour Council. I hope, together with you, that the social partners will be strongly encouraged to do even better in the coming weeks: in the coming days, but it will be possible to reach a solution in the coming weeks, so that Belgian legislation is adapted and will comply with European legislation and case law. If no agreement is reached between the two sides of industry, I shall instruct my administration to draw up a proposal which will comply with European legislation and case law. This will allow workers who become ill during their holidays to take leave at a later date. The monitoring of the correct application of the regulations is carried out by the Monitoring of the Social Laws of the Federal Public Service Employment, Labour and Social Consultation, which is responsible for compliance with Belgian holiday legislation. The control of the application of new rules and the control of possible abuses will therefore be ensured by that service. In the case of sickness during the holiday period, further refinement and improvement will be needed, even since the National Institute for Sickness and Invalidity Insurance, the RIZIV, has not yet concluded agreements with some countries on this subject. In addition, the social partners will have to consult further on the precise modalities of these controls. Hopefully, the next few weeks will be able to land. If we do not land, I will now announce that we are taking an initiative ourselves and that we are addressing the government on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for the very clear answer. We'll follow up on the file with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u65	I have a brief question, to which a very comprehensive answer could follow. Do you have a long answer, Minister? Otherwise, I will turn my question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u66	The answer is not that bad in terms of length. It is, of course, also a very good answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u67	The European Commission recently published its Country Report 2018 on this country. In this report, the European Commission starts from a number of starting points and draws a number of conclusions. What is your vision on this Country Report 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u68	First of all, we must be satisfied that growth led to more jobs. It is important to note that this increase in employment in Belgium is faster than the macroeconomic growth rates would suggest. Institutions such as the National Bank owe this to the government's labour market policy and labour cost control. I am pleased that the European Commission also recognises these efforts. However, we are not there yet. Continued efforts are needed to achieve the European 2020 objectives. The Commission is right to suggest to our country that particular attention should be paid to mismatches between skills and job vacancies. The jobs are here. We need to be able to fill them out now. There is therefore a need for a strong focus on the training of groups that are far from the labour market: low-skilled, people with a migration background and so on. In this context, I would like to point out that the Commission, for the whole of the Union, finds that there is a deterioration in the quality of jobs. This is not the case in Belgium. Full-time contracts of indefinite duration remain the rule. Small part-time jobs and involuntary part-time work are decreasing. That's very positive. There has been no exchange in Belgium between job growth and the quality of the jobs. However, we must not be complacent and look forward. I invited the social partners to work together to identify the impact of digitalisation on the labour market and to make proposals on, among other things, training to make employees more resilient and to tackle job losses in certain sectors and jobs together. I look at the European Commission and the Employment Committee (EMCO) to offer good practice in this context. In this context, Belgium is also asking for an extension of the Globalisation Fund to address the consequences of digitalisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u69	I have no further comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u70	Mr. Minister, Vacancy.com and the Department of Social Economy at Ghent University recently conducted a survey on the job interview etiquette for employers. Almost 30% of the 2 623 respondents indicated that they rarely or never receive a response to their CV or motivation letter as applicants. More than half of those interviewed over fifty-five report rarely or never to receive a response to applications. Two out of three respondents are negative about the feedback provided by employers following a successful or unsuccessful application, 31 percent consider that communication on the application procedure is fair and 36 percent consider it unfair. More than half of the respondents say that after a negative application experience, they would rather not have anything to do with the company in question. That's what the investigation is about. Article 9 of collective agreement No. 38 of 6 December 1983 concerning the recruitment and selection of workers provides that applicants, who meet the job requirements set out in the job offer but whose application has not been received, shall be informed in writing by the employer within a reasonable period of time of the decision taken with regard to them. This means that it is important for an applicant that he or she should know whether the application was stopped. If this is indeed the case, the employer will naturally invite him or her. If this is not the case, the applicant must be informed within a reasonable period of time. I'd like to get an answer to the following questions. First, employers who do not give feedback to applicants breach collective agreement No. 38, isn't it? Secondly, what means does the applicant have of a judicial complaint, the social inspection or whatever in the absence of sufficient feedback? Thirdly, have you heard any complaints about this in the last five years? Fourthly, is it not in the interests of a company to courteously treat its applicants/potential consumers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u71	Madam President, Mr Van der Donkt, the problem referred to is the subject of collective agreement No. 38 of the National Labour Council, closed on 6 December 1983, concerning the recruitment and selection of employees. This collective agreement No. 38 contains, in addition to the employer's obligations, a number of rules of conduct relating to recruitment and selection. One of these rules of conduct is Article 9, which provides that applicants who meet the job requirements listed in the job offer but whose application has not been received shall be informed in writing by the employer within a reasonable period of time of the decision taken with regard to them. The code of conduct, including Article 9, has not been declared generally binding and is binding only on the organizations which have collective agreement No. 38 of the National Labour Council. In other words, these are recommendations, not legislative, legally enforceable rules that directly bind employers. Compliance with the code of conduct set out in Chapter IV of collective agreement No. 38 can therefore not be enforced in criminal matters. As for your question about facts and figures, so far no complaints have been made to the services of my inspection of the Social Laws regarding Article 9 of collective agreement No. 38. I would also refer to the divided opinion of the NAR, No. 1975 of 23 February 2016, in response to the question by the Social Affairs Committee to issue an opinion on the legislative proposal by Ms Kitir, Mr Bonte and Ms Jiroflée, amending the law of 13 February 1998 laying down provisions for the promotion of employment as regards the introduction of the obligation to reply to applicants. The employers' and employees' representatives look at this issue with very different glasses, which makes it very difficult for a consensus to be reached. I understand that this bill is still pending in committee, but that the proposers do not ask for priority treatment to enable the social partners to reach a consensus.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u72	Madam President, I thank the Minister for his reply and I have no further comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u73	Minister, in Antwerp, more than EUR 40 billion of diamonds are traded every year. Approximately 80% of the rough diamonds and 50% of the cut diamonds are converted here. Over the last ten years, the number of diamond cutters in our country has been halved. There's 650 of them now. A large part of the sector has moved to low-wage countries. Most diamond cutters work here in the city of Antwerp and in the Kempen, a small part is employed in West Flanders. Even though the number was very high, Antwerp remained world top. Here the most expensive and difficult stones are still ground because they require a lot of expertise. The average age of the diamond workers is quite high, almost 47 years. The sector is trying to do something about this by investing in training to pass the knowledge on to the younger generations. In Belgium, about 6 600 people work in the sector, mostly in sales. Now Tiffany, the largest jewellery chain in the world, wants to close his Antwerp grinder Laurelton Diamonds. Although it would only be about thirty sharpeners, it would mean a new loss of image and prestige for the Antwerp diamond sector. South African Safdico Gem Tech also wants to remove most of its grinding activities, resulting in the loss of a dozen sharpeners and some servants. In the context of the Renault Act, there would have already been an intention of collective redundancies and the information phase would be at present. I would have liked to have heard an answer to the following questions, Minister. Is it true that the procedure under the Renault Act was initiated for the Antwerp grinding mill Laurelton? How many jobs are there on the road? Is it true that Safdico would also have similar intentions? Given the enormous importance of the diamond sector for Antwerp in particular and Flanders in general, what measures have you taken to make working conditions in the diamond sector more attractive?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u74	Mr Van der Donkt, the competent services of my department have indeed received a notification of a proposed collective dismissal of the diamond company Laurelton Diamonds Belgium bvba in accordance with the provisions of the Renault Act. As you said, 30 employees are involved. I would add that the procedure is under the Renault Act, which means that negotiations are under way with regard to the announced collective redundancies. This announcement of the dismissal of 30 workers does not necessarily mean that 30 layoffs will actually be made at the end of this procedure. There could be fewer of them. Wait and see . At the Safdico Gem Tech diamond cutting shop, six diamond sharpeners were fired, but this was not done as part of a collective dismissal because it was less than ten employees. The result of these redundancies was, however, that the company's grinding activities in Belgium were stopped. The wage and working conditions in the Antwerp diamond sector are governed by the collective agreements on which the competent Joint Committee No. 324 is under negotiation. In particular, the social partners pay more attention to making the profession more attractive by providing training and by making the profession financially more attractive. For example, diamond workers under the Joint Committee No. 324 are also covered, inter alia, by a free hospitalisation insurance and a supplementary pension. However, competition from Africa and Asia is such that it is very difficult to compete with the wages paid there. In 1999, the social plan sought to maximise the reduction of employers' social security contributions. This plan, which worked only a small year, until complaints were made to the European Commission and the Belgian courts about prohibited state aid, had already paid off on that very short period. Subsequently, an attempt was made to convince the European Commission that this plan did not involve prohibited State aid, given the virtually non-existent competition within the EU. However, by decision of 9 April 2002, the European Commission considered that this social plan constituted unreasoned State aid. After the European Commission had taken this decision, an attempt was still made to comply with the European State aid exemption regulations, but this was not accepted by the European Commission either. From 2017 onwards, a social plan light was introduced that could provide support to the diamond workers who employ grinders and other workers for the actual machining of diamonds. However, the aid is limited to the maximum amount of so-called European de minimis aid. That is to say, a maximum of EUR 200 000 per three fiscal years. The plan is that the social costs of diamond workers will be greatly reduced in order to maintain and strengthen employment in the sector. The plan is still in operation, thank God. The recent tax shift has ensured that in the Joint Committee No. 324 employers' social contributions have fallen by EUR 600 000. They now come to an amount of 3.8 million euros, to be paid in for the year 2018. The above is, however, a theoretical comparison based on pre-tax shift employment. The real amounts for 2018 may be lower or higher as a function of real employment. The reduction will continue to increase in the coming years and therefore costs will fall by around EUR 100 000. Thus, in the diamond sector, contributions will have fallen by 15% compared to the situation before the tax shift, on top of the effect of the index jump, of course. This does not, of course, mean that the sector is not yet close to wage costs in the low-wage countries. However, the policy cell is currently engaged in discussions with the Syndicate of the Belgian Diamond Industry, which is the sector federation for the diamond industry, on how a new influx of diamond workers can be achieved at a reasonable cost.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u75	Minister, I have no further comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u76	We have arrived at item 24 on the agenda, which is the joint question No. 24397 by Mrs Gerkens, No. 24500 by Mr Delizée, No 24500 by Mr Delizée, No 24617 by Mr Daerden, 24624 by Mrs Gerkens, No. 24624 by Mrs Gerkens, No. 24624 by Mrs Gerkens, No. 24624 by Mrs Gerkens, No. 24624 by Mrs Gerkens, No. 24624 by Mrs Gerkens, No. 24624 by Mrs Gerkens, No. 24624 by Mrs Gerkens, No. 24624 by Mrs Gerkens, No. 24624 by Mrs Gerkens, No. 24624 by Mrs Gerkens, No. 24624 by Mrs Gerkens, No. 24624 by Mrs Gerkens, No. 24624 by Mrs Gerkens, No. 24624 by Mrs Gerkens, No. 24624 by Mrs Gerkens, No. 24624 by Mrs Gerkens, No. 24624 by Mrs Gerkens, No. 24624 by Mrs Gerkens, No. 24624 by Mrs Gerkens, No. 24624 by Mrs Gerkens, No. No 24743 by Mrs Dierick and others, 24963 by Mrs. Fonck. A number of Members have asked for the matter to be postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Hedebouw's 24421 will be converted into a written question. For the combined questions No. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am waiting two minutes for Mrs Kitir to check whether Mrs Fonck is still coming to the committee. We have arrived at item 27 on the agenda, which is my question No. 24602. Minister, is it right that I should ask my question from the Chair?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u77	Madam President, where else would you put them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u78	Otherwise, I'm gonna have to get replaced and it's gonna be a chair dance. So I will ask my question now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u79	In the Royal Decree of 28 August 1963, which regulates small dereliction, Article 2 XI refers to the "family council" as it was called at the time. However, the Family Council was already abolished in 2001 and replaced by a new procedure in the Civil Code, also under the supervision of the Peace Court. If a person is now summoned to the justice of the peace in the context of such a procedure, the person cannot in theory avail himself of the small fee when this legislation is strictly applied. Until now, this has not often led to major problems and, in the spirit of the law, has been granted the small dereliction for such a summoning by the court of peace. In practice, however, it is now clear that in some cases small care is not granted, with the argument that the conditions are not met to enjoy the small benefit because there is no call for the so-called family council. It cannot be the intention that something to which an employee is entitled should be refused simply because the terminology used in our legislation has not been adapted. I have the following question. Are you prepared to amend Article 2 XI of the Royal Decree of 28 August 1963 by referring to the convening by the peace court under the procedure laid down in Chapter II, Title X of Book I of the Civil Code, so that there is no longer a family council? I asked questions earlier today about hospitalisation leave, for which you were able to arrange. I hope that you will be able to arrange this too, which means no more than adjusting the terminology.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u80	Your question relates to Article 2 XI of the Royal Decree of 28 August 1963 under which workers are entitled to be absent from work while retaining their pay for attending a meeting of the Family Council convened by the Peace Court, for the necessary time, with a maximum of one day. You state that the family council was abolished as such, but that the family members can still be heard by the peace court, for example in custody cases. You are right, therefore, to ask whether the concept of family council as defined in the mentioned Royal Decree should be understood to include the convening of family members by the Supreme Court in matters of custody and whether, in such a case, Article 2 XI of the Royal Decree of 28 August 1963 precludes the employment of members of the family from retaining pay. In this context, I can refer you to an answer to a parliamentary question given by the then Minister for Employment in this committee in 2002. However, the Law of 29 April 2001 amending several laws on custody of minors abolished the family council and entrusted its powers to the peace court itself. As a result, I believe that the provision of Article 2 XI of the Royal Decree has become obsolete. The family council was an organ of guardianship intended to allow the blood and related persons to play a role in the custody system and to be convened in specific cases by the peace court to make decisions on custody. Where the authorisation of the guardian for the establishment of specific acts originally came to the family council, the new rules, in particular after the abolition of the family council, only provide for a right of peace. In a number of cases, the court of peace is obliged to hear certain persons and/or the court of peace has the opportunity to hear persons whose opinions may be useful, but these persons do not have any formal participation. The convening of family members in custody cases within the framework of such a consultation, whether mandatory or not, by the peace court cannot therefore be compared with the previous call to attend a family council. Thus, to my regret, the workers who are called upon to be heard by the peace court in custody cases will not be able to remain absent from work while retaining wages under Article 2 XI of the Royal Decree of 28 August 1963. In this context, I would like to point out that the Royal Decree of 28 August 1963 contains only a minimum provision. An individual or collective agreement may contain more favourable provisions. In this case, employers can therefore still allow the absence of wages. For the sake of completeness, I should also like to point out that the persons concerned are entitled to leave on compelling grounds, whether unpaid or not, in the event of an appearance at the hearing. In view of the above, I propose that the opinion of the social partners should be sought on the possibility of amending the Royal Decree of 28 August 1963, in the sense that workers who are called upon to be heard by the peace court in custody could also enjoy a right of absence while retaining their pay. As a result of your question, I will refer it to the social partners and see if we can do something about Article 2 XI of the Royal Decree of 28 August 1963.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u81	Minister, I do think it would be good to look at how we can solve this. In the majority of cases, I am noted that there is no problem and that the employer allows this while retaining bets. In a number of cases, the family council is strictly referred to. You say that the stricto sensu is not intended for custody. However, when a peace judge summons someone, it is not for nothing. Hopefully there will be a positive opinion from the social partners to bring greater uniformity to this small gap. I look forward to the advice. I will ask the question again in a few months to get an answer, unless you spontaneously keep me informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u82	Questions Nos 24352, 24941, 24951 and 25132 by Mrs Fonck are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u83	Minister, Taylor Mail, located in Orcq, Tournai, was declared bankrupt by the Commercial Court on April 17, 2018. The Penant group, which had taken over the company in 2016, had promised to make a series of investments in order to sustain the business. Unfortunately, that was not the case. Since the beginning of this year, Taylor Mail has been involved in a Renault procedure following the announcement of a restructuring plan to eliminate 29 jobs. With this announced bankruptcy, all 78 workers are at risk of losing their jobs. This is a social tragedy that is like a huge blow to many people, to many families in my region. A curator has been appointed in particular to meet with the workers to take stock. The latter will have to decide on the continuation of the current contracts. Minister, what follow-up did your administration bring to this issue? Do you have any information about a future acquirer who could continue the activity and save these jobs?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u84	Mr Delannois, in the event of collective redundancies, the Royal Decree of 24 May 1976 on collective redundancies requires the employer to communicate certain information to the authorities. In this context, my administration had indeed received a notification from that company concerning the announcement of collective redundancies. Twenty-nine workers were involved. On the other hand, in the event of bankruptcy, the law does not provide for a similar obligation. Finally, as regards a possible successor, I would like to inform you that employment policy is a matter of regional competence. It is therefore up to my fellow regional ministers to respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u85	Minister, I understand that this is a regional jurisdiction. As a federal minister, I thought you might have more information than I did. Apparently that's not the case. Moreover, the difference you make between restructuring and bankruptcy is important. It's a shame we can't play much more entrepreneurially.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic879x.u86	All other questions have either been postponed or converted into written questions.
