ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, although my question is dated, it is still relevant. It relates to the possible consequences of Brexit on our economy in the event of a non-trade agreement between the European Union, and therefore Belgium, and the United Kingdom. In the absence of a trade agreement before March 2019, the United Kingdom will automatically leave the Customs Union. Such an exit would result in the reintroduction of customs charges for imports and exports. However, many jobs in Belgium are directly linked to trade relations with the United Kingdom and could therefore be affected in the event of a lack of agreement. Mr Secretary of State, in view of the very timid progress made in the current negotiations for a trade agreement, do you have any solutions to reduce the effects of this situation on the Belgian economy? What leads are they on the table?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u2	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my question dates back to October, but it is still topical. The water between the European Union and the United Kingdom seems to be getting deeper and deeper during the Brexit negotiations. The likelihood that a trade agreement will be concluded in time for the deadline in 2019 seems to be getting smaller. The Brexit High Level Group report and several studies show that Belgium, of all the Member States of the European Union, will be most affected by a Brexit. The harder the Brexit, the greater the impact on our economy. This is very acute for the Flemish economy. The lack of a trade agreement before 2019 will have disastrous consequences for important industries, including the Flemish carpet industry, the food industry and the automotive industry. Our ports of Zeebrugge, Antwerp and Ostend will also be affected by a Brexit without a trade agreement. Mr Secretary of State, what signals do you draw on the possibilities for the European Union and the United Kingdom to reach a trade agreement by 2019? What consequences do you foresee for our companies in case of a hard Brexit? What measures are being taken to prepare our open economy for that increasingly probable scenario?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u3	(...) to the European Council and Article 50, the United Kingdom has given two years to negotiate a withdrawal agreement, as set out in the Article. As long as the United Kingdom is still an EU Member State, legal agreement cannot yet be reached on the new framework of our relations. However, Article 50 provides that the future framework can already be taken into account, and this will be achieved by signing, together with the withdrawal agreement, a political declaration or agreeing on the broad lines of future cooperation. The content will then be worked out in one or more agreements, including, inevitably, a free trade agreement. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as part of the negotiations on the withdrawal agreement, a consensus has already been reached on the transitional period until the end of 2020. This will give more time to further develop the future framework in which we will have to work. In the case of a hard Brexit, the Belgian economy will be severely affected, with the United Kingdom being our fourth largest trading partner. Trade will then take place on the basis of World Trade Organization (WTO) rules, which will lead to import duties that could be quite high for some sectors. In addition, companies currently trading with the United Kingdom will see their relationship evolve towards trade with a third country leading to further formalities, controls and delays. Companies that do not trade with the United Kingdom may be indirectly affected by the impact on their suppliers or customers, their financing or their ability to attract talent. Above all, this part of my speech must be taken as a reference to a third country. This situation will be comparable to that which existed until 31 December 1972, so before the United Kingdom's accession to what was then called the Common Market. The high-level group chaired by Count Buysse, where I sit with Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters, was set up in June 2016. Its task is to study and prepare the different scenarios. A task force has also been set up within the SPF Economy to support this high-level group. The Buysse Group's second report was published in December 2017. He describes in detail the effects of a hard Brexit and proposes eight recommendations to mitigate the effects. The various administrations concerned are therefore preparing for all scenarios, for example by attracting and training the necessary staff. Like the regional competent authorities, they are in contact with the stakeholders concerned to help them prepare for all possible scenarios. In addition, a separate task force was set up within the Secretariat-General of the Commission to develop the preparatory element. At the same time, work continues at European level in order to obtain the softest possible Brexit. In the case of a hard Brexit, Belgium will be badly hit economically as the United Kingdom is our fourth trading partner. The consequences of Brexit will be considerable for our ports, especially those of Antwerp and Zeebrugge, and certainly for a very large part of our economy. This will have a profound impact on the automotive and textile industries. We must not forget, of course, that more than 80% of Belgian exports come from the north of the country and that for historical reasons it is mainly those companies which will be affected by the Brexit. I also read newspaper articles and articles of opinion stating that the British people would start to doubt the usefulness of a Brexit, as the entrepreneurial world has already denounced. The entrepreneurial world in the United Kingdom strongly opposes the consequences of Brexit, which leads to a very special political and economic situation. However, given the British political landscape and the tenor of many of my discussions, I do not believe that the decision makers will return to their steps. I therefore have to conclude quite clearly that the Brexit will be there, because the Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn is almost as unbearable in that respect as his colleagues from the Tories. The Lib Dems, due to their relative weakness in the House of Commons, do not play a major role in the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State for taking stock of this case. Your answer reiterates that this is an extremely important case with important consequences in case of hard Brexit. As you pointed out, the United Kingdom is our fourth largest trading partner. I think it is also essential that we, as parliamentarians, be kept informed of the negotiations. I don't know how. I understand that there is this transitional period until 2020, but we will have to make some progress on the future potential trading framework. I do not know whether this high-level group continues to meet. This framework has made a whole series of recommendations and some things have been put in place, as you have confirmed. I don't know if they're still working on this. If that is the case, it might be interesting to take stock of this in this committee and to hear them again, to see how the negotiations are going. That would be helpful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the comprehensive answer. In the meantime, we have learned that the political world remains unbearable, no matter what the people and the business world think of it. It is certainly important for our country, since exports from Belgium, especially Flanders, to the UK are at a top level, that we conclude a good agreement, so that our companies there and possibly also the English companies here can still distribute their goods in a good way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u6	If I may, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the meetings of the high-level group, there were meetings planned this week – if I am not mistaken tomorrow – with senior Commission officials, including former Commissioner and current President Barnier. However, as a European summit looks forward to another important point, this meeting was postponed until the beginning of July. I am quite prepared to take stock of this here in the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, I note that you are picking up Mr Crusnière's suggestion. What would be a good time to put the item on the agenda? There are a number of lapses. I believe that Mrs May should come to the summit on 28 and 29 June with the British proposal. Is that the right time? This is bad for Parliament's timing and I do not need to remind you of what is on the agenda in September and October. Do you think that at the end of October, early November would be a good time to discuss the issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u8	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u9	Then we'll pick up that clue. I will take Mr Crusnière's suggestion and the State Secretary's positive response with regard to the committee's work this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u10	Mr.President, Secretary of State, from March 11 to 17, 2018, you participated in a State visit to Canada. You were accompanied by your colleague from Foreign Affairs, ministers-presidents of the federated entities, journalists, business leaders, academics and the royal couple. This State visit was organized around three distinct axes: the commemoration of world wars, economic relations and cultural and academic exchanges. During this visit, a memorandum of understanding was signed between Belgium and Canada in order to strengthen our ties. Mr Secretary of State, can you take stock of this State visit? Have you had bilateral contacts regarding CETA? If so, what was the content of the exchanges, after a majority vote on the bill approving this treaty yesterday in the Committee on External Relations? Mr Secretary of State, I think I already have some elements of an answer, but I am still asking you the question in case there are any new or particular things that you would like to share with us. Don't hesitate!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, you accompanied a royal visit to Canada from 11 to 27 March. This country is not only an important trading partner for us, it is also historically a very important strategic partner in geopolitical context and security context. As a result of that state visit, I have three questions. Firstly, what is the overall and economic balance of the state visit? Secondly, was CETA discussed during that visit? Thirdly, Canada is also a very important trading partner of our Ghent port. What effect will CETA have on this trade balance in view of the increased US import tariffs on steel and aluminium, which will also apply to Canada?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all stakeholders believe that the state visit to Canada can be seen as a great success, which can be attested by the number of participants, the quality of the program and its contacts and its impact. Our delegation was made up of more than 200 people, including seven ministers – including four ministers-presidents – and 106 business men and women, as well as 23 university or college rectors. They met with the Governor General of Canada, Lieutenant-Generals, Premiers of Ontario and Quebec, two federal ministers, rectors of major Canadian universities, and personalities from the business and cultural sectors. As you will have seen, the program was organized around three axes. The first was the commemoration of the end of the First World War, which included a successful ceremony at the Canadian War Museum. The Belgian delegation expressed its gratitude for the Canadian sacrifices in the struggle for freedom and democracy during the two world wars. In 2018, Canada and Belgium remain allies in the defence of common values and a world order based on rules supported by multilateral organizations such as the United Nations and NATO. The economic aspect of the state visit makes it possible to bring to the attention of certain important sectors of our country once again: diamonds, food, logistics, biotechnology and space travel. During my meeting with the Canadian Minister for International Trade, François-Philippe Champagne, I stressed the strategic location of our country as a gateway to the European Union, the gateway, la porte d'accès vers l'Europe pour les entreprises canadiennes. Belgium is one of Canada's most important European trading partners. With our ports and airports, our country is a logistics hub with a hinterland that extends over France and Germany. I have also recalled that Belgium is one of the most open countries to international trade, accounting for 83% of our gross domestic product. The importance of good and smooth communication to SMEs and the role of Chambers of Commerce were also stressed. I also argued for an economic NATO and added that Belgium cannot distance itself from the European Union's trade policy, even if it is hit harder than other EU countries by certain protectionist measures. As the government's special envoy for the MYRRHA project, I supported the signing of an agreement on the exchange of know-how in nuclear research by Director Jonathan Bagger of the TRIUMF Lab, a leading Canadian research centre, and Director General Eric of Walle of the Nuclear Research Centre. For its part, the university delegation was of an unprecedented size, illustrating Canada's appeal to our universities and colleges. Meetings with Canadian rectors were held in Ottawa and Montreal. The feedback on this subject has been very positive, and the competent authorities can be contacted in this regard. In the cultural sector, Canada and our Communities have signed, after more than ten years of negotiations, a long-awaited memorandum of understanding, which will facilitate co-productions in the audiovisual sector. The impact of the visit is at least threefold. First, 46 agreements of a commercial, academic or cultural nature have been signed. Second, all events were complete in view of Canada's enormous interest. Thirdly, the visit had an extremely positive impact on the image of our country. The Belgian presence in Canadian society is very diverse but not always very visible. The State visit focused on the richness and dynamism of our relations and made them visible. The mission coincided with the first months of the provisional implementation of the free trade agreement, CETA (or AECG), between the European Union and Canada, which explains the keen interest of Belgian companies. The CETA agreement was a recurring theme throughout the state visit. The King has repeatedly mentioned CETA in his speeches. He pointed out that this is not only about trade in goods and services, but that the agreement would also bring people, students, business men and women, researchers and academics together. The subject was also discussed during my discussions with my Canadian colleague, the Minister of International Trade, François-Philippe Champagne, on March 12, the first day of the State visit. The interview discussed bilateral trade relations between Canada and Belgium, the impact of emerging protectionist trends in joint trading partners, and the importance of the Canada-European Union Free Trade Agreement. Canada and Belgium are historical partners and CETA will strengthen the economic links between our two countries. Both countries also agreed that the benefits of the CETA Free Trade Agreement should be better communicated on the basis of concrete benefits. Mr Champagne also confirmed that CETA is a model, in particular its social and ecological components. During his contacts with Latin American or Pacific trade ministers, he did not fail to stress this. On Tuesday 13 March, I took part in the power meeting at the ambassador's residence, where CETA was discussed with the captains of industry from both countries. The exchange of views underlined the expected benefits of the Convention and demonstrated the willingness of Canadian companies to further diversify their export markets. On 14 March I took part in a round table with Canadian and Belgian managers, which I also introduced. The conference was organized by the VBO-FEB, in collaboration with the Business Council of Canada and listened to by King Filip's presence. I opened the conference with a speech in which I stressed the importance of free trade and the historical links between Canada and Belgium. The CETA Free Trade Agreement should encourage our companies to explore commercial opportunities across a wide range of domains, leading to a win-win situation on both sides of the Atlantic. Finally, I also spoke with Mr Michael Chan, Ontario's Minister for International Trade. With him I discussed bilateral relations between our country and Ontario, as well as the impact of the free trade agreement on this. This brings me to Mr Van Peteghem's question about the impact of CETA on our trade balance in view of the increased US import tariffs on aluminium and steel. The Chinese, Mexican and Canadian countermeasures create additional opportunities for European exports to those markets. As I mentioned earlier, this would certainly apply to Canada by means of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement. Imports into certain sectors have traditionally come almost entirely from the US, but the trade agreement has forced Canada to open up a rather protectionist market, which is also particularly interesting for Belgian products in the agri-food sector and the dairy sector. In conclusion, it should be stressed that the State visit was a great success. It has provided clarity essential to our presence in Canada and to the strength of our businesses and universities. The State visit now provides additional impetus for future visits and leverage for other aspects of our relationship. It also contributes significantly to giving our country and our companies additional positive credibility and visibility, taking into account the diversification of our two industrial markets.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for this comprehensive and detailed answer. Of course, as I had already mentioned in my question, I expected a little. Indeed, and that makes sense, you are part of the majority and we hear that support for CETA. I would like to point out that, as I was able to say in committee yesterday, it is not because CETA is opposed in its present state and concept that partnerships or exchanges with Canada are opposed. We would just like another model of agreement, which is more respectful of a series of standards dear to us: human rights, environmental rights, social rights. However, we are very pleased that this visit was carried out in the best possible conditions and that fruitful exchanges were made on a wide range of aspects, including research and culture.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, I believe that the visit's bilan is very positive. CETA will offer new opportunities, but a number of sectors will also suffer some disadvantages. I think my colleague's comment on human rights and environmental standards is a bit exaggerated. I fear that no easier partner will be found in the world to conclude a trade agreement with. You did not answer my question about the impact that CETA will undoubtedly have on the port of Ghent. It is important to follow this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u15	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Casier's 24427 was postponed to the next meeting at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u16	Mr President, Secretary of State, we have all heard that President Trump has decided to withdraw from the Iranian nuclear agreement. I would therefore like to ask you about the potential consequences that Belgian companies could face as a result of the withdrawal of the United States from the nuclear agreement. Belgian companies have always been very active in Iran. Many entrepreneurs had seen a great breakthrough when sanctions were lifted. According to my information, Belgian exports increased from 226 million in 2014 to 595 million in 2017. It's not nothing! This return of US sanctions unfortunately suggests consequences for these companies. So, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to know how the potential economic consequences of this American decision are monitored at Belgian level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u17	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, on 8 May 2018, the President of the United States indicated his decision to leave unilaterally – this becomes a habit at home – the Vienna Agreement on Iranian Nuclear, signed on 14 July 2015 between Iran, on the one hand, and the European Union, the five permanent members of the UN Security Council and Germany, on the other. Donald Trump also announced new sanctions against the Islamic Republic. This decision will have a significant negative economic impact, not only on Iranian and American companies, but potentially on all companies on the planet, due to the extraterritoriality of US law. For example, economic giants, such as the oil tanker Total or the PSA car manufacturer, which had gradually re-established in the country in recent years, have announced that they prefer to leave the Iranian market rather than expose themselves to possible sanctions from the United States. Mr Secretary of State, Belgian companies were hoping to conclude contracts in Iran in the near future, particularly in the mechanical, infrastructure and environmental sectors. If my figures are correct, Belgium exported almost 550 million euros to Iran in the first eleven months of 2017, compared to some 115 million euros in imports. Belgian exports to Iran increased by 20% in 2016. The unilateral decision of the United States is a cutoff for all those companies that had invested in the Iranian market. Mr Secretary of State, do you confirm the figures I have just made? Can you tell us how many Belgian companies are located in Iran? Have you been able to talk to their representatives? Can we now estimate the loss of profits caused by the withdrawal of the United States? Finally, are you aware of any Belgian companies that have decided to stay in Iran, despite the threat of fines and sanctions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u18	Mr President, Secretary of State, at the beginning of May, President Trump announced that the US would withdraw from the nuclear agreement with Iran. The US Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, announced that the US would impose the toughest sanctions in history on Iran. However, these sanctions would also affect our companies, because European companies present in Iran would no longer have access to the American market. The European Commission then launched on 18 May a blocking clause prohibiting European companies from following US sanctions or any decisions by US courts regarding their trade relations with Iran. However, several companies are already taking action. For example, KBC has already announced that it will restrict payment transactions with Iran and Boeing would no longer supply aircraft to Iran. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions. Firstly, what is the potential impact on our Belgian companies? Secondly, what further measures are we taking to protect our companies from US sanctions? Thirdly, will the US, according to your assessment, refrain from taking measures that could harm European security interests?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u19	Colleagues, since the lifting of sanctions in January 2016, Belgium has seen a significant increase in its bilateral trade. In 2017, we saw an increase of more than 20% in exports to Iran. Exports to Iran amounted to almost EUR 600 million, while imports from Iran fell by 16.5% to EUR 134.5 million. The first figures for January and February showed a decline in exports to Iran and imports from Iran. In recent years, exports to Iran consisted mainly of chemicals, machinery and equipment, and a large proportion of imports from Iran were plastics. At present, I do not have precise information on the number of Belgian companies operating in Iran. In any case, Belgium is the fifth largest exporter from the European Union to Iran. These figures would have been much higher if there had not been difficulties with both bank transfers and credit. Still, this is probably an underestimation because several companies continued to work indirectly with Iran through channels established at the time of the sanctions. As an example of the interest of Belgian companies in the Iranian market, I will mention the numerous economic and commercial, sectoral and ministerial missions organised by regional trade agencies. The Belgian authorities are in close contact with Belgian companies based in Iran and have taken the initiative to inform Belgian companies of the sanctions announced by the United States and their extraterritorial impact, as well as of the response to the sanctions prepared by the European Union. Belgian companies, on the other hand, want to remain active in export and investment in Iran. But it is clear that the next few days will be of paramount importance in order to obtain more clarity as to the impact that sanctions can have on European Union companies and to see to what extent it can be calculated. The trend in the field of American démarches is clear. Gradually, large companies, in particular from the petroleum, automotive, transport and insurance sectors, are withdrawing from the Iranian market. The last in the series are Procter & Gamble and Peugeot. The British Vodafone, which terminates its cooperation with the Iranian Internet Provider HiWEB, Boeing, which cancels the delivery of 80 aircraft, as well as some signed contracts with Iran Air, are all signs that trade relations are deteriorating significantly. Most European private banks and even the European Investment Bank follow this trend. That will be an important stumbling block for our exports. After all, our exporters, our executives, stress the essential importance of safeguarding banking channels. They also point out that the current uncertainty is an extremely negative one for the private sector. The US procedures are particularly complicated and clearly aim to ensure that companies leave the sector or the country in question. Of course, our companies do not want to take the risk of possible US sanctions or reduced access to the US market. This clearly shows that there is a gap between the political discourse, namely the defence of the nuclear agreement with Iran by, among other things, the EU, and the situation on the ground. In my opinion, this gap can only grow.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I understand that Belgian companies that continue to want to invest in Iran are deeply concerned about the measures that are being taken. Like you, I believe they should be supported and pressure maintained. We must act at both the national and European levels to resist the decisions taken by the United States. Similarly, we all share your view that the European Union must maintain its support for the agreement reached. To do so, we must also ensure that we support our companies that still wish to invest in Iran.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your thorough and thorough reply. The whole question is how we can change the regime. Last October, we visited Iran with the Speaker of the House. We have seen a great demand for relations with the West and for human contacts, but also for increased trade. We must be able to find solutions. Even before President Trump denounced the agreement, the organization of financial flows had some difficulties, to the point that it was often necessary to go through banks located in the Emirates in order to avoid obstacles to trade. In this case, I consider that the European Union was right not to follow the US President. Of course, this is not a reason to accept Iran's nuclearization, but good will must be expressed on both sides. In any case, my colleagues and I will follow this matter carefully. I know, Mr. Secretary of State, that you are also attentive to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, at the end of your reply you made clear the difficulty of the gap between, on the one hand, the position on the nuclear agreement in which Europe can play an important role and, on the other hand, our economic interests. That will remain a gap and there is a chance that it will grow. It will then be for Europe, but also for the Belgian Government, to take the necessary steps to preserve both goals as well as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u23	Mr Van Peteghem in his lonely presence on this committee. We are now entering a new phase in relations between Iran and the rest of the world. That's what it's really about. Everything has to do with the conditional agreement that has allowed us to live in a conditional new reality in our relationship with Iran. There are a lot of conditions that Iran must meet that are sometimes out of sight. These relate to human rights and the continued significant support of international terrorism by the Iranian regime. When we talk only about trade relations, it is the case that financial and economic action with Iran is still taking place in a little transparent, not to say an opaque financial structure. Investors................................................................................................................................................................................... This is something that still has a lot of work to do in Iran. That is just one of the issues that we will have to resolve in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u24	This will be included in the report. The absent colleagues will be able to read it there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u25	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, it is a fine victory for our country that this government has managed to be re-elected as non-permanent member of the UN Security Council after ten years of overwhelming majority. This is also a great boost for the image of our country and for our diplomacy. The main mission of the UN Security Council is to maintain international peace and security. More than ever, there are enormous challenges to be faced. Our country is known for its mediation role and is an experienced expert in the search for compromises. This is more than an asset in the current geopolitical context where solutions and dialogue are needed. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions. What will our country commit to the UN Security Council in the coming years? This is an enormous achievement by our government, in which you may have played an important role. What contacts have you had before and what were your main impressions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u26	Mr President, Mr Van Peteghem, on 8 June Belgium, together with Germany, the Dominican Republic, Indonesia and South Africa, was elected non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for the end of 2019-2020, in place of outgoing members Bolivia, Ethiopia, Kazakhstan, the Netherlands and Sweden. Belgium won 181 votes. That is a good result and the crowning of the work of many. It is said that victory has many fathers and defeat is an orphan. Well, this work has brought many fathers and mothers to a successful conclusion. The campaign was also supported by the King and the Queen and by so many others. The starting point was the Belgian vision of the need for a multilateral approach to numerous challenges for peace and security at international level. We all agree that the force of the UN Security Council must be increased. It calls for a stronger consensus on diplomatic solutions to prevent or resolve violent conflicts as quickly as possible. The President is also well aware of the Charter of the United Nations and of the different degrees of mediation and intervention there, in which to try to bring about a friendly settlement is still the most important thing, which is actually the focal point in the efforts and actions of the United Nations. Belgium's campaigning slogan was "promoting consensus, striving for peace." In doing so, Belgium wants to make it clear that it wants to contribute actively. We have a great track record with regard to multilateral diplomacy. It is not about chasing prestige but about achieving a possible goal of peace. The objective of peace is therefore laid down with all the partners in the Security Council. The objective is to seek a political solution, which always puts the emphasis on the use of force, which is also not excluded in the United Nations Charter. The rule of law and the international legal order and respect for it are of paramount importance to us, because we believe that sustainable development can be found in this. I myself supported this Belgian election campaign from my position as follows. Firstly, I have promoted our candidacy in all my high-level contacts, both at home and abroad, and I have tried successfully to confirm or win Belgium's vote afterwards. Secondly, in 2017, during my presence at the CARICOM Summit, I informed all members of our candidacy, which I also defended, through intensive bilateral contacts with the Caribbean Community and the Common Market. The CARICOM is the main Caribbean trade organisation, with Member States such as Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, the Commonwealth of Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, which you know, Suriname and Trinidad and Tobago. The right to vote has an influence at the UN, because the voting behaviour is that of each Member State, in the sense of one country one vote. Thirdly, I also recently took part in the summit of the ACP countries, in the Togolese capital Lomé. The ACP consists of African, Caribbean and Pacific countries with a special relationship with the European Union. Cooperation between the European Union and the ACP countries is an important aspect of the EU's foreign policy. The Lomé agreements, followed by the Cotonou Agreement, create a strong partnership. Country by country we have been persuaded to vote for us. The Belgian candidacy campaign continued despite the Israeli withdrawal as a candidate, because it was also important to score as best as possible in the first round, in such a way that there should not be a second round in order to achieve the required quorum. So that's what happened. We have gained the confidence of 181 countries. That is a particularly relevant result. Participation in the UN body which has as its main responsibility the enforcement of international order, peace and security is a heavy responsibility for our country. In the increasingly unstable and unpredictable world, the multilateral system is under pressure. That is all the more reason for a country like Belgium to show that our system is more valuable than ever, as is our approach. During membership of the Security Council, albeit non-permanently, things are always unpredictable, as during the European Presidency. Belgium's knowledge and skills are always greatly appreciated, given that Belgium belongs to the founding fathers of both organizations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, success indeed has many fathers. If I am not mistaken, the starting point for the non-permanent seat has been set up under the Van Rompuy administration. Many people have been working on it, mainly from the current government. I think you have played a very important role in this. Of the many fathers, I think you have made one of the hardest efforts, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u28	Mr Secretary of State, from 23 to 30 June you will enthusiastically go to Argentina and Uruguay to lead a Belgian economic mission. Argentina and Uruguay are growing markets with many opportunities that are actively engaged in further internationalisation of their businesses. What sectors will be put at the heart of this? Is there a specific bilateral focus during this trade mission? What possibilities do you see for our companies during this mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u29	The mission from 23 to 30 June to Argentina and Urugay takes place under the direction of Princess Astrid. It is a large trade mission with 134 businessmen from 94 companies. In this respect, the mission is a success in advance. It is the third economic mission to Argentina since 1995. Exploring the business opportunities and deepening trade relations with Argentina and Uruguay are the most important goals. Belgium accounts for 6.5% of European exports to Argentina for EUR 640 million. The main exports to Argentina in 2017 were chemical products, mineral products, machinery and appliances. On the import side, the Belgian share is 4.2 % with 345 million euros. Food products dominate imports, followed by chemical products and plant goods. To Uruguay, our country is the seventh largest European exporter with EUR 107 million, mainly mineral products, chemicals, machinery and appliances. With regard to imports, Belgium is only the eleventh at European level with EUR 18 million. The main import products in 2017 were plant products, animal products and base metals, despite the large presence of Belgian industrial groups and port groups in Uruguay and in particular in Punta del Este. So there's still a lot of work to be done. The 94 companies will participate in B2Bs, hold high-level conferences, attend seminars and official meetings, participate in network opportunities prepared by the organisers. 15 contracts and Memoranda of Understanding with the respective authorities will be signed. Princess Astrid, my colleagues and myself will have political contacts both in Argentina and in Uruguay at the highest level with President Macri in Argentina, President Vázquez in Uruguay and the respective Foreign Ministers, Home Affairs, Economy, Transport, Infrastructure and other members of governments and authorities. A series of sectoral forums in Buenos Aires and Montevideo will put our companies and our assets in the spotlight: innovation on smart cities, agrobiotech, a particularly important issue, the production of energy, biomass and biogas, ecoconstruction, ports and port infrastructure, the aerospace sector, the audiovisual sector, the pharmaceutical sector, the logistics sector, the nuclear sector and, later on, the MYRRHA project of the SCK. Together with my colleagues, I will also make our country an attractive investment destination for South American countries and organise an investment seminar in each of the two countries. An economic mission is and remains an excellent opportunity to highlight our assets. We will also maintain the important financial contacts with the Inter-American Development Bank. In addition to the above mentioned efforts for our exporting companies and the promotion of our country, there is also the role as special envoy for MYRRHA. In the context of the seminar on The impact of nuclear and aerobic technology on the society organised by Agora and the SCK, I will give an important presentation. I am also planning a visit to the CAREM site in Argentina at the invitation of the Secretary of State for Nuclear Energy, Mr Gadano. To finish, I'll give you the following. As I mentioned in my policy paper, the economic missions are an important and substantial tool for promoting our businesses. They are an essential part of our foreign trade policy, and to the great satisfaction of our participants and our trading partners in a deeper competitive environment, in which our main trading partners also sometimes turn out to be our biggest competitors. The proposed further diversification of the markets in the case of Argentina and Uruguay of our companies not only provides a firm fallback base to conquer a piece from our country, but also ensures the use of capital and more jobs in our own country. That was my explanation of the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u30	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers and wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, the Member States of the European Union unanimously agreed on Thursday to increase import duties on a range of American products such as jeans, bourbon and motorcycles, in response to the increased US levies on European steel and aluminium, which have been in force since the beginning of this month. Other historical partners of the US, such as Canada, have also announced countermeasures. Meanwhile, the trade war between the US and China is escalating. Following President Trump's approval of import duties on Chinese goods, which represent a trade value of $50 billion, China responded with countermeasures. Now President Trump would re-introduce import charges for over $200 billion in Chinese goods. Mr Secretary of State, what is Belgium's position? What is the position of the other historical partners of the US, such as Japan? What about our automotive sector, which is also under pressure from higher import tariffs? Our prosperity is very dependent on our economy. We all agree that there is a need for a balanced and progressive European trade policy. How do you see the future transatlantic trade relations and our alliance going?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u32	Mr Van Peteghem, I will reply as briefly as possible. I have also received a question from Mr Luykx on this subject. He has translated it into a written question, but I will nevertheless retain some elements of my answer. This is for clarification. Your colleague asked me about the contacts with the US Trade Minister, Wilbur Ross, whom I saw in 2017 and in 2018. I have consulted him and the administration on this very important dossier for our companies. These conversations went in the right direction for a long time. In the end, the President demanded that all countries that benefited from a temporary exception make an effort in one way or another to restrict their exports to the United States. The scale of the reduction in exports to the United States could and can be discussed, but not the principle, with the result known in the meantime. The approach was always quantitative, not so much in principle, although it was sometimes somewhat snowy in quantitative terms. As soon as it became clear that the United States would introduce an import charge on foreign steel and aluminium on the basis of Article 232 of the Trade Expansion Act, the European Commission and the Member States have worked together for a permanent exception. All bilateral and European contacts, including the contacts I myself had with Wilbur Ross and other representatives of the administration, were focused on this important objective. On 31 May the US President decided to set import tariffs of 25% and 10% respectively on steel and aluminium. On the same day, the EU announced countermeasures which it described as "swift, firm, proportionate and fully WTO-compatible." Specifically, it concerns the launch on 1 July of the dispute settlement procedure at the World Trade Organisation, countermeasures in the form of tariffs on a list of US exports which should normally be in force at the beginning of July, and protective measures against trade deflexion. The EU wants to study these measures to avoid redirecting products that are now less easily entering the US to Europe and flooding the market, such as Chinese steel. In itself, we had come a long way to meet the American economy and the Americans. To prevent cheap Chinese steel from being dumped on the European market was also one of my arguments during my maintenance to rely on some kind of goodwill. The modernisation of the World Trade Organisation also played an important role, which we also support with Belgium and the European Union. Individual companies retain the right to apply for individual exemptions for certain products. Many managers tell me that they are willing to do so to some extent. Of course, that is not an easy task, but it is a possibility that remains. The Commerce Department asks for a huge amount of statistical and other information to be filled in and the managers do not want to go so far as to share confidential information about their market processes. So it's a precarious balance. Our country stresses at EU level the need to speak with one voice, to act proportionately and to remain within the legal framework of the WTO. We want to continue talking to the US to avoid further escalation. So I am not talking about a trade war, but at the moment I am still talking about a tariff war. That's what it's all about in the end. It is not about the fact that certain products are denied access, on any side of the Atlantic. Both myself, the Belgian Embassy in Washington and the FPS Foreign Affairs are following this matter day by day. It should be avoided that the EU 28 acts in a spread order in the steel file. I should talk about EU 27, namely EU 28-1. This does not always make it easy to keep the unit in the steel file. The European response must be proportionate, as I said, and compatible with the WTO. That's what I've been talking about. Then I come to my personal vision. We are a very open economy, and over 80% of our gross domestic product comes from these exports. The United States plays an important role in this. I'm an anti-protectionist. Everyone who knows history and has read a piece of the introductions to the economy realizes that one simply cannot be protectionist anymore in this 21st century. I think it is important for the EU to use this momentum to diversify its trade relations by concluding as many multi- and bilateral free trade agreements as possible. This is also the major challenge for the Union, as it is for Belgium. What has happened between Canada and the European Union with Japan is a good example of this. Mercosur and Bolivia will soon follow. It is important for us to diversify our markets further. Although the United States is still our fifth trading partner, our companies need to diversify further, even outside the markets of our first five or six trading partners. So much for political-philosophical considerations. The protectionist attitude of the United States is not new in itself. There have been a lot of trade tensions since the Second World War. Some in this room will remember the spaghetti wars of the 80s. Also during the presidency of George Bush Sr. there were great tensions that eventually led to an agreement. You know, as I do, that during President Obama's second term of office, the map of protectionism was drawn intensively. The Obama administration and Mrs Clinton also regularly came up with a message that leaned more towards protectionism than resolutely towards the TTIP agreement in all its facets. So this attitude is bipartisan and has to do with the domestic political relations in the United States. We are not a country where politicians are domestic, but in the United States, of course, that is still the case. Raising US import tariffs is not a joke, of course. We will suffer the consequences. It is 25% for steel and 10% for aluminium. If the situation were to continue, it would cost between EUR 3.4 billion and EUR 4 billion in the medium term, which is significant. We can immediately assess the opposition of such an amount. It's a significant amount of money. Europe has therefore announced that there will be a number of countermeasures, such as the import tariffs on Kentucky Fried Chicken, Jack Daniels whiskey, jeans and Harley Davidson engines. However, I do not know whether these measures will impress us very much. So we have to work hard. Australia has received an exception for steel and aluminum, which was a peculiar thing. It was assumed that no one would be granted a permanent derogation. However, this has happened for Australia. Argentina, Brazil and South Korea were exempted from quotas after acceptance. These are quantitative restrictions, which are not so great, but have a great psychological interest in safeguarding the trading position. The agreements are always the subject of an American reinterpretation, emphasising the fluctuating aspect of trade relations. That is not very good, because people are looking for great security forever. What is the impact of imported cars on national security? This file can be completed more quickly than foreseen by law, 270 days after the announcement, but there is generally no doubt that there will be a tax on imported cars. President Trump has put forward a rate of 25%. The announcement for the parliamentary elections of November 2018 is being speculated in American trade circles. The rates on foreign cars and parts are a logical and perfiduous consequence of the steel and aluminium tariffs underlying the upward spiral. Indeed, these tariffs make car parts manufactured in the US more expensive and even less competitive with car parts from abroad. Fares on foreign cars and parts should now prevent even more purchases abroad, i.e. car manufacturers are pushed towards more expensive domestic purchases. So it's not just trouble and torment. It gives us the opportunity to diversify our trade policy. For example, Chinese, Mexican and Canadian countermeasures create additional opportunities for European exports to these markets. This would certainly apply to Canada, where imports into certain sectors traditionally came almost entirely from the US. I would like to emphasise that the US remains our main non-European trading partner for economic NATO, because if we can link the world's largest producer to the world's largest single market, this means a market of 1.2 or 1.3 consumers who can set the standards. I just wanted to make one small comment. In trade in the world, we play with a number of partners who have more or less the same standards. China is not one of them, because as far as trade policy is concerned, that is a huge disrupter of what we might call the normal market order.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u33	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your very comprehensive and comprehensive reply. I would like to ask one further question. You said just now that you talked to your American colleagues about the World Trade Organisation. There is one of the difficulties with the conflicts between Europe and the US. After all, the functioning of the World Trade Organisation is somewhat hampered by the failure to appoint a number of judges. In fact, that means that the World Trade Organisation can no longer make any statements. Is that something you also mentioned about the consultation with those American colleagues? If the World Trade Organisation were to work to the full, many of the problems we know today could be solved much more easily.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic928x.u34	I had a meeting just after the Sofia Summit of the European Heads of Government. At that summit, there was talk of European rhetoric, of rhetorical measures. During the meeting with my colleague, Mr Ross, I was confronted with the fact that there had actually been insufficient explanations and explanations in Sofia's decision-making. I returned that message to Europe. It is very important that the decision-making process within Europe is well explained and expressed. For example, I have emphasised this standing at the sitting. I have been able to explain that the United States of America and the European Union are absolute partners and that, in Sofia's decision-making, we had come a long way to meet the Americans' demand to modernise the WTO and adapt it to the market realities of the 21st century. The next thing is for the report. People were not aware of that at the time in Washington. It was an essential element in creating a goodwill and in keeping our trade relationship normal as far as possible. For example, there was insufficient information about the fact that we had the same approach to dumping cheap Chinese steel on the European market. At the top level they were not aware of this. So it is important for me that the lines remain open. In order for world trade to function properly, we must keep open channels of communication. I have therefore forwarded that report to Mrs Malmström and her services and to the Belgian Government, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
