ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u2	We must proceed to the admission and swearing-in of the alternate who is to sit in replacement of Ms Isabelle Poncelet, who resigned on September 13, 2018. We must proceed with the admission and swearing-in of the successor who is eligible to replace Mrs Isabelle Poncelet, who resigned on 13 September 2018. The alternate is Ms Anne-Catherine Goffinet, the first alternate in the electoral district of Luxembourg. The successor who will replace her is Mrs Anne-Catherine Goffinet, first successor to the Luxembourg constituency. Ms. Anne-Catherine Goffinet's credentials were validated in our June 19, 2014 session. Mrs Anne-Catherine Goffinet's credentials were declared valid at our meeting on 19 June 2014. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choice refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this member. I therefore propose that this Member be admitted. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I recall the terms of the oath: "I swear to observe the Constitution" "Ik zweer de Grondwet na te leven" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen '. I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I ask Mrs Anne-Catherine Goffinet to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mrs Anne-Catherine Goffinet to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u3	Anne-Catherine Goffinet will be part of the French linguistic group. Ms Anne-Catherine Goffinet will be part of the French language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u4	By letter of 5 September 2018, the Walloon Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 5 September 2018, the Walloon Parliament announced that it had constituted itself at today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u5	By letter of 6 September 2018, the Parliament of the French Community informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 6 September 2018, the Parliament of the French Community announces that it was constituted at today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u6	You have received a draft agenda for today's sitting. You have received a draft agenda for today's meeting. Are there any comments on this? (No) The agenda has therefore been adopted. Is there any comment on that? [[No]] Accordingly, the agenda was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u7	Mr President, Minister, about 60 days ago, after intensive negotiations, the government approved the employment deal. The comments on this were different. Labour economists were lyrically enthusiastic about the deal. Others were a little more pessimistic about it. The truth is always somewhere in the middle. There are a lot of good elements in this work deal. The question is, however, what is the practical implementation of it? We are now 60 days away, everyone has had a holiday and the working year has already started. The question arises as to what the actual timing will be for the implementation of the various measures. Many measures should be completed by the end of the year as they should enter into force on 1 January 2019. I am thinking, for example, of the SWT, which was discussed during the restructuring at Carrefour. The rules need to be slightly adapted by January. Two weeks ago, the Prime Minister consulted with the Group of Ten, where the working deal was also on the agenda. I have two specific questions. Minister, how do you see the precise implementation of the work deal and the exact timing? Can you make it clear that all these measures will be effective by the end of the year and that we can start with them? You've consulted with the social partners. Do you expect any trouble from that side? Were there any comments that might have led us to expect delays in implementation? I sincerely hope not, along with my group. For us, this is a crucial issue in order to get the budget in order, in order to increase employment and the level of employment in our country. If, thanks to these measures and the measures already taken by the government, we can achieve the same level of employment as, for example, the Netherlands, then we know very well that the gap in the budget will shrink like snow for the sun. So, Minister, a strong incentive to work on the implementation of the work deal over the next few weeks and to clarify the precise timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u8	Mr President, Mr Lachaert, thank you very much for this question. I can assure you that we have worked hard, including on the work deal, while you may have enjoyed a holiday. There are two shutters. The first was discussed in the consultation committee and includes 30 measures. An interfederal working group is meeting on this matter today. The second is the employment deal, approved by the government on 24 July. The employment deal includes twenty-eight measures, including the mobility budget and the start-up wage. I hope you are impressed by everything we have done in this area since 28 July. We have written to the social partners about the shutters in which they can and must play a role. On 12 September we met the trade unions and the employers separately, to give text and explanation and to ask for further steps to be taken. Yesterday, the Group of Ten met. If I am well informed, they will give a number of responses or advice on the employment deal next week. I also met the chairmen of the joint committees and the regional ministers, both Minister Muyters, Minister Gosuin and the Walloon Minister, to discuss measures such as the Community service. They have promised me that they will respond in writing to a number of measures. Meanwhile, a number of KBs are ready. You also know that a decision has already been taken on two of the twenty-eight measures. For example, the mobility budget lies ahead of the Council of State and hopefully it will come to this hemisphere fairly quickly. Last Friday we approved the RB for positive actions. We have also made a table of the twenty-eight measures to which the technical implementation has been added. I can transfer it to the secretariat so that all Members can follow how we deal with things. Finally, I am convinced that we can and will achieve these twenty-eight measures by the end of the year and that we can and will meet our commitments, such as the creation of 12 500 additional jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u9	Minister, I understand that you have met a lot of partners who are crucial in the implementation of the employment deal. Of course, you don't control everything yourself. There are a number of things that need to be implemented by the regions. At that level, there will also have to be a step forward in order to implement this deal together with the federal government. I also call on the social partners to shoulder their responsibilities. I hear they'll be transferring their advice over the course of next week. I sincerely hope that there will be no sticks stuck in the wheels here. According to the timing you're giving today, you want to land this story by the end of the year. I am also very pleased with the table you are going to give us with detailed information. I therefore hope that, in other areas, the reforms needed by this country in the socio-economic field to create more jobs and therefore more people will not be put back into work in order to safeguard our economy and our prosperity. Together with you we look forward with great interest to the table you will provide us with. In the coming weeks and months, you will be able to count on the full support of our group in this House to ensure that these measures become a reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u10	Mr Minister, it is almost a year to the day that Ryanair's situation raises a number of questions, both in terms of the protection of workers and consumers. On 14 September 2017, the European Court of Justice held that the concept of the base of assignment could be used by the worker to bring proceedings before the courts of his country. Commissioner Thyssen also reiterated last week that Ryanair should immediately apply national labour laws. For several months, strikes among airline personnel have been taking place in different countries, including Belgium. The next date announced is September 28. Today, the company's management shows a certain willingness to ease tensions from 2022, even 2020, as long as the unions lift their threat of strike. Furthermore, the European Commission refers the case back to the Member States: "It is not the European Union to sanction or control, but to the national authorities". I would like to know more about the aspect of worker protection, Mr Minister. Have you met with the management of Ryanair, the representatives of the pilots and cabin staff? The Belgian labour auditorate has taken over the case but, politically, we cannot remain insensitive to the situation. Have you met your relevant European counterparts? What position does it take? How do you intend to react? It concerns the protection of workers, but also of consumers, who are victims of the situation. Do you have any information about the impact of these strikes on travellers? In one year, more than 20,000 flights were cancelled and several hundred thousand passengers impacted. During this summer's strike movements, Ryanair refused to reimburse the passengers whose flight had been cancelled on the grounds of force majeure. A practice deemed unacceptable by Test Purchases, which commenced legal action on behalf of its injured members. Since then, have you had any contact with Test Purchases? If so, what is the return? What are the means by which Ryanair can be encouraged to comply with its obligations? Is the impact not limited to Belgium, is it envisaged to take measures at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u11	Mr Minister, Ryanair prides itself on being a no-nonsense company, as I have been able to read on its website. Ryanair's slogan is: "Silent in Flying'. Well, this quirkiness has recently been experienced by both staff and passengers. A short history makes that clear. All Ryanair employees have a contract under Irish law. Whether by chance or not, Irish social protection and remuneration law is not really a top priority. In 2011, some Belgian employees moved to the labour court in Bergen, which referred a question to the European Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling. In the meantime, the European Court has answered that question and stated that the debate on the law applicable or not in this case is left to the national courts. In other words, it is not excluded that, where appropriate, Belgian law may also apply to Belgian workers. In early 2018, Ryanair announced that it would nevertheless incorporate some elements of Belgian labour law and social law into the contracts of Belgian employees. Following a series of strikes during the past holiday months, Ryanair again showed its wayward face and sent a warning letter to the strikers, registering their strike days as a no show. In August, Ryanair refused to reimburse the affected passengers for flights cancelled by the recent strikes. In addition, you will no doubt remember the discussion about the hand baggage allowance. Recently it became known that a strike might take place on 28 September. On 19 September, yesterday, Ryanair suddenly declared itself ready to negotiate a collective agreement by 2020, where initially 2023 was moved forward. Commissioner Marianne Thyssen is knocking on the chest and says that this kite does not go on, because Belgian law must already be applied today. This position is evidently nuanced by her fellow Commissioner, Mr Bulc. The socialist and liberal trade unions seem to comply with the good will of Ryanair, while the Christian trade union maintains the strike commitment. Minister, when do you expect the ruling of the labour court in Bergen? Do you already have a view of a forthcoming Belgian collective agreement? What are the possible consequences of this? What is the impact of Mrs Thyssen's statement and how does it relate to the nuance of her colleague Mr Bulc? What measures were taken to counter the announced strike of 28 September?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u12	Mr President, Minister, in the Ryanair case, we have on the one hand a dishonest exploiter, Michael O'Leary, who refuses to apply national social legislation for the benefit of Irish law, of which it is known that he is not very social; on the other hand, a rather extraordinary social movement, organised at international level, with staff conducting strikes in several countries. There was one in July, in August and the next is scheduled for a week. Workers demand three fairly basic forms of respect: compliance with the social legislation of the country in which they work, unrestricted negotiation with the country's trade unions and the same working conditions for all, whether or not they are subcontractors. Ryanair's response is as surprising as it is worrying, since it allows it to comply with national legislation, but only from 2020 at the earliest - subcontractors will not be involved - and provided that any threat of strike is lifted which is not very legal. Yet, Minister, Ryanair is clearly breaking the rules. The European Court of Justice said that the Belgian courts had jurisdiction over labour disputes. Marianne Thyssen says Ryanair must respect the country's labour law. In its own words, this is not negotiable, because the countries of the European Union are not the jungle. She added, however, that it was the responsibility of countries to enforce their national law. What did Kris Peeters do so that it was not the jungle in Belgium? You politely asked Michael O'Leary to avoid climbing. Minister, the problem is not climbing. The problem is that a firm does not respect the law in our country and that the competent minister does not oblige it to do so. Why, since you were Minister of Employment, have you done nothing to force Ryanair to comply with Belgian legislation? A simple worker or trade unionist would receive a fine or go to prison, as in Antwerp. Apparently, when you're the boss of a multinational, you're not. What are you going to do from now on to force Ryanair to comply with Belgian legislation, without waiting for 2020 and without conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with you. Indeed, the social unrest at Ryanair has already lasted for several months. My patience has limits. On several occasions, I asked Ryanair about his questionable attitude with regard to workers' and consumers' rights. I will try in five minutes to say something about the protection of consumers, the right to strike and, of course, the application of Belgian labour law. As far as consumer protection is concerned, just two weeks ago I sent a letter to Ryanair's management asking it to waive the surcharge on disputed baggage for travellers who booked their flights prior to the entry into force of this surcharge on 1 September. I must honestly tell you that when I write a letter to Ryanair, I will receive an answer within two days. That doesn't happen for all the letters I send. That's very good news, isn't it? Ryanair informed me that it did not accept the additional additional additional cost for baggage. At the same time, I've called in Ryanair's watch. I also reminded Ryanair of its obligations vis-à-vis its customers in the event of cancellation of flights following announced strikes by its staff. Furthermore, I drew Ryanair's attention to the fact that, according to the Court of Justice of the European Union, a strike cannot, under any circumstances, be regarded as a case of force majeure. Again, responses were provided quickly. I have been informed that this will be followed up further. Secondly, as regards the right to strike, you also raised the incident with the no-show letters, in which Ryanair threatens the strike workers in no uncertain terms that they will suffer the consequences of participating in the strike in their further career. I have again written a letter to Ryanair pointing out to the company that such sanctions are contrary to the right to strike and here too I have received a reply rather quickly. On 1 August, Ryanair replied that no penalty other than the non-payment of the remuneration for that day would be applied. Moreover, on 3 August, the Labour Inspectorate sent another warning to Ryanair for a possible breach of the rules governing the right to strike. I assume that, in view of the second letter and its reply, Ryanair will comply with this. Thirdly, the problem of the application of Belgian labour law is highlighted. Some of my colleagues were probably still on holiday, which means that they are not aware of the efforts we have all made, but hopefully this will become clear. In the ongoing social conflict, the social mediator, in close consultation with my cabinet, convened the sectoral conciliation office on 18 July and 6 August. This resulted in a consultation on 11 September at the FOD WASO with the result of a draft collective agreement, which provides as an important element for a transition to Belgian labour law and an agenda for further social meetings. On 18 September, the day before yesterday, Ryanair announced that it does not want to complete the transition to Belgian labour law until March 2020. At the same time, consultations are under way on the establishment of a trade union delegation. What have I done here? On 10 August I wrote a letter to my colleagues from Work in the Netherlands, Germany, France, Spain, Ireland and Sweden to deal with the matter together. In fact, Ryanair plays with the different laws in the different countries. There has also recently been a contact with EU Commissioner Thyssen. As Mr Van Hees rightly points out, I hope I know her and you now too, because she is doing a wonderful job at European level. Legally, the case is more complex than some would like to see. If the work is organised from a particular country, the mandatory provisions of the labour law of that country must be applied at least, but the parties have the possibility to determine in the international framework the law applicable to the agreement. We have repeatedly made it very clear that we assume that Belgian labour law applies to several elements. I am not going to go into that now, otherwise I will exceed my five-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u14	You've already crossed it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u15	Already? It's a complex question. I'm rounding up. We can come back to that in committee. You can see that I write a lot of letters with, as far as Ryanair is concerned, positive effects so far. A new letter is being drawn up, in which I insist that the agreement with the trade unions be concluded as soon as possible and that Belgian labour law is not applied from 2020, but as soon as possible, tomorrow or at the latest in 2019. My social mediator is at his disposal to manage everything. I hope that all this is clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answers. Ryanair's workers are covered by national labour legislation and we must ensure that they can enjoy the same rights as all workers in Belgium. Consumer rights must also be respected, and I mean that you are paying attention to them. I imagine that action will be taken at different levels in the event of non-compliance with this right. I will keep an eye on the development of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u17	Of course, Minister, thank you very much for your reply and for your diligence in writing over the last few weeks and months. Luckily, you didn't book a flight at Ryanair. As a broad party of the people, we are concerned not only about the interests of the workers but also about passengers. An employer who, out of purely profit-making pursuit, risks leaving both in the cold must be brought to order. We have insisted on this. It is to your credit that you have responded to our call. We therefore fully support you in the dossier and even see an ally in you. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u18	That's new.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u19	That way, the current government will get through someday. However, I did not get an answer to my question as to what we should do with the strike of 28 September 2018, which is apparently only announced by the Christian trade union, while the liberal and socialist trade unions are not really in the story. It seems to me in the file that you should write a note to the ACV to convince that union and change its mind. Finally, and at the service of the employees and passengers, I would like to call a halt to the no-nonsenseality of Ryanair.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u20	Minister, as I understand it, every week you send a letter to Ryanair. I guess Ryanair has an automatic response system, and they say, "Yes, Minister." But obviously, it doesn't fix things on the ground. You're telling us that legally, it's more complex. If I understand correctly, what Mrs Marianne Thyssen says is wind. She said that it was non-negotiable, that it was the law of the country that took the measures that must be applied. Obviously, for her, things are clear. But when it comes to applying this in Belgium, it is more complicated legally. Personally, I think it is not complicated, but the will to take coercive measures is necessary. When someone does not respect the law in our country – and this is the case with Ryanair – we must take the sanctions to force that person, whatever he is, whatever his wealth, whatever his economic power, to respect the law, and, in this case, Belgian law. I hope you will in the coming weeks, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now on the subject of transmigration. We have agreed, and you have also been informed, that we will group together all the questions and Vice-President Jambon, Minister for Security and Home Affairs, will answer on behalf of the government. Minister of Justice Koen Geens and Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration Theo Francken will also be given the floor to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u22	Mr President, I almost didn't recognize you with your new look. I could tell you a joke about radicalisation, but that would be lame. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, it is a pity that the Prime Minister is not here today. We have heard him over the past few years about winter and summer hours, but we have not actually heard him on other important issues such as ARCO, the balance sheet of the tax shift and the problem of transmigration. However, every disadvantage has its advantage. This setting will ensure that you are here with three people, Mr Jambon, Mr Geens and Mr Francken. That's the beginning of every solution. Many people, at least we have been wondering over the last few days whether you are talking to each other. And then I don't think of twitter or television studios, but of talking around a table to work out solutions together. We see one minister pointing the finger at another. We hear the cry of mayors to be helped, but they are left to their own devices. Mr Francken, you once said that if you were mayor, you would solve it in two weeks. Well, I guess it's not that simple. However, you should not make a mess of things either: you should assist those mayors. Ladies and gentlemen, we note that Mr Francken's policy today ensures that families with children are locked up, while criminals are released without papers. Mr Francken, Mr Geens, Mr Jambon, when one sees that parking should be closed in a prosperous country like Belgium that should guarantee security, that families with children should be locked up and that criminals should be released, there is only one thing you should do: sit around the table. You must join forces, stop pointing your finger at each other and work on solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, let there be no mistake about this: this is not so much a migration crisis as a political crisis of ministers who do not want to work together and who are suffocating local authorities. Mr. Jambon, you are mayor yourself. What will you do to help the local authorities? What will you do to ensure that our country deals with this complex problem in a dignified, humane and safe manner? It is time to come up with solutions, after all the explanations of the past few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u23	"It's basically drug theft and trafficking. There are no criminals." This is what Mr Theo Francken said yesterday, smiling at the corner, when he gave interviews about the illegals he released and brought, for the most part, to Maximilian Park, in the heart of Brussels! Mr Jambon, you who are the Minister of the Interior, who is responsible for public order, do you find that funny too? Mr Geens, you who are the Minister of Justice, do you find that there is something to give interviews with a smile? This government - this whole government, I insist - has made the issue of migrants a window of communication, mainly for electoralist and populist purposes. What is shocking is that all the parties in this government have placed themselves behind one man, Mr. Franken. He is more known for his communication prowess, his sense of buzz and tweet, than for the effectiveness of his policy. Sending the transmigrants back to the heart of Brussels, some 30 of whom had a heavy criminal record, is the antithesis of an effective policy. It's even worse, Mr. Franken: it's a mistake! But this government does not move or reframe you or so little. And the minister is still here, with you as a member of the government. Where the fault is even more serious, it is when it doubles its intention to provoke a real crisis in Brussels. The government discharges its obligations and responsibilities in order to make the city of Brussels and its citizens bear the responsibilities that the federal government has had to manage for years. Brussels is not a Calais bis and does not want to become one. Brussels cannot be abandoned and manage alone a phenomenon that goes beyond the scope of its competences. This is, I repeat, fueled by a deliberate policy of non-management of this government. All Brussels requests remain dead letter. There are only words, only speeches. Car parks in Flanders are being emptied to take them also to Brussels, of course, but no help comes. I will ask two simple questions: when would the creation of a referral centre for transmigrants, which would, as you know, make it possible to have information for these migrants, to protect them from traffickers engaged in trafficking in human beings and to enable citizens in the areas occupied by these transmigrants to live with a little security and serenity? When have we been asking for it for more than five years - the decentralization of the Foreign Office in Flanders, Wallonia and not just Brussels? Stop making fun of the world and especially the Brussels people!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u24	Mr President, members of the government, we have heard quite a bit of criticism of Theo Francken in the past, because he took a lot of measures that went too far. He had to be restrained, to get the criticism today that he's doing nothing and that he can't win boxing matches with his hands tied behind his back. If any sensible alternative were put forward from the opposition, I would also pay some attention to that, but we have not yet heard the first word. I would therefore ask those who do take charge, the Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State, what they intend to do in the context of this crisis. Of course, it's about a government issue. Everyone will take responsibility for that. That is why I am addressing the Minister of Justice. I'm not a lawyer, but I put my ear to people, which, by the way, compensates for that first one. You, Minister, are both a lawyer and a listener. You combine both qualities. So, like me, you will certainly encounter people who ask themselves where the term 'illegal' comes from. Well, that term doesn't come from anywhere. There is a penal code that states that unordered entry into our territory is punishable. We have, moreover, unanimously adopted a law in this House which provides for a penalty of three months and repeatedly a penalty of one year. We note, however, that the public prosecutors do not act against this. That provision is a dead letter, although this Parliament has approved it. In the past there may have been reasons not to make this a priority, but in the meantime we are dealing with a problem that even the opposition says is serious. Against this background, I would like to ask you what your element is in the overall approach to the problem and whether it would not be useful to put an end to the patience of the public prosecutors. Minister, you responded this morning saying that a three-month sentence cannot lead to an arrest. That's right. Therefore, according to the legislation, a second sentence of one year may be pronounced, which may give rise to an arrest. If I'm not a lawyer, I'm an economist after all. An economist rarely says sensible things, but he knows that a second conviction can never follow unless there has been a first. As an economist, I am still familiar with the order of numbers. Minister, if we actually establish a form of violation of the law on a daily basis, would it not make sense to respond appropriately?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u25	"It's a big mess." Those are not my words, but those of the President of Open Vld. "It's hallucinating." Those aren't my words, they're the words of the president of the CD&V. But I can only agree with them. If you have to release 202 illegal immigrants, and not 60 as originally said, to make way for transmigrants, that is incomprehensible to people. If you need to release 32 people with a criminal record, and not 12, to make way for other transmigrants, that's incomprehensible. If you don't want a camp in the Maximilian park, but you're going to drop off the transmigrants yourself, that's incomprehensible. If mayors from Merksplas released illegals allow stante pede by the local police to drive again to Merksplas, who then has to hurry to make sure that she returns before the illegals who have just been removed, that is incomprehensible. This is not a policy. That's a carnival with merry-go-rounds. The result is that a criminal on the must-wanted list is deported without penalty. Children are locked up together with their parents, released and then locked up again. One is illegally released to make way for the other. My colleague just said it here. It's not about open borders or anything. It's about bad governance and panic football. I hear the Prime Minister is demanding a solution by tomorrow. I also hear that a circulation plan will be presented. Who makes up such a word as "circulation plan" when it comes to these issues? (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u26	It could be that the N-VA made it up, because it's gonna make it big. My question is: what concrete measures are on the table to put an end to these absurd situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u27	Mr President, Ministers, Mr Secretary of State, everyone who is familiar with the subject, and all your predecessors are sure, know that the chain on migration is as weak as the weakest link. What's a very difficult link? The expulsion policy. This is a very complex problem, for which there are no simple solutions. We all know that a certain category of migrants is not, or is difficult to identify, because they cannot be identified, because the countries of origin do not cooperate, and so there are other good reasons. Mr Secretary of State, I think we all recognize this. You'll probably answer in a moment to acknowledge that. But recognizing this is, of course, the starting point for a fair communication policy. My group has always supported you in this difficult department, but I must stress once again that your communication over the last few weeks leaves a number of painful points to be desired. Si on me laisse faire, basically: "If I were mayor of Brussels, I would solve that in fifteen days." That is not fair communication to the citizen. There is therefore a ping-pong game where the ball is simply kicked into the other camp: the mayors put you under pressure with their parking lots, you drop transmigrants from Steenokkerzeel back into the Maximilian park and now also colleague None is involved by your colleague De Roover. You say that you do not have enough capacity in the closed centres and that you want the prison capacity finally to be addressed. The Minister will reply to that in a moment. I do not think that the proposal has a chance, Mr De Roover, not because you are not a lawyer, but because it is unbearable. What do I want to tell you, Mr Secretary of State and Ministers? When you go to the Council of Ministers tomorrow, we will support you on a number of questions. You're asking for more capacity. However, you know as well as I do, whether it is five hundred, six hundred, eight hundred or one thousand places, in 2019, 2020 or 2021, that the problem will not be fully resolved. But we support you in that, because you had a master plan a few years ago and you have been delayed in implementing that master plan. I'll tell you more. You have now made a decision to release 200 migrants, 200 people with a criminal past. You've made that decision under pressure from your own communication: transmigrants, we're gonna see what we're gonna see... this has led to a situation where people with a criminal history, with a criminal record, are released to take their place. We will support you in your performance of the capacity. I have a second suggestion for you, regarding misuse of procedures. You communicate a lot about lawyers taking advantage of that. You have a point there for a lot. The coalition agreement provides for a simplification of these procedures. What's stopping you? Lawyers, of course, use and abuse proceedings as long as they continue to exist. There are proceedings before the Council of Foreigners' Disputes, there are also proceedings in the civil court. Where do you stand in practical terms with the simplification of this legal gag? This, of course, opens the door to abuse of procedures, and I think that goes against a basic sense of justice. That's two questions, two suggestions. Mr President, in my reply I will ask for some time for the international framework, because I believe that a solution needs to be found in the area of European law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, throughout Europe, and hence in our country, we are faced with transmigration. Those who say in today's debate that the relevant ministers are finally sitting together, that they can talk and do something, naturally also ignore the efforts and resources we have made to respond to the problems facing each country, and also our country. I am thinking of increasing capacity. I am thinking of adapting procedures. I'm also thinking of more resources. I heard it this morning saying that the Justice Department is watching without a job. Those who claim that also ignore the judicial reality and ignore the many judicial investigations, they ignore the dozens of convictions for human trafficking and trafficking in human beings. Colleagues, that is the priority of police and justice: tackling and breaking the business model of smugglers and traffickers. When we were faced with greater problems last year, this government decided to increase the capacity of the closed centres. That's what we're doing. However, Mr Dewael is right. We are lagging behind, in particular a delay of about 100 places. Had we not had that delay, we would have had to release a hundred fewer people. That is also the reality that we must face. Ladies and gentlemen, we must face up to the problems without panic-mongering. We must also see that migratory flows have fallen over the last two years. However, this has not prevented too many incidents. There are too many incidents in the highway parkings and elsewhere in our country. I am thinking of Brussels and the coast. We must tackle these problems. There are no simple solutions to these complex problems. We won't solve them in two weeks. Difficult, however, must also be possible. This requires concrete and feasible measures. This requires measures that have effective effects on the ground. Once they have been decided, they must also be executed. Ladies and gentlemen, we must set the right priorities. The right priority is for a person who has no right of residence in our country, with respect for him or her and also with respect for the rules of law, to be expelled. That's the priority. That is the first priority in this area. Mr President, I will conclude. Colleagues, I know that expulsion policy is the Achilles heel of migration policy. That was the case during the previous legislatures, during the present legislature, and I predict that it will be so during the next legislatures. This requires cooperation rather than referring to problems. This requires, as the Minister of Justice rightly pointed out this morning, an approach at the mouth and at the source, and thus an approach on both sides. That requires coordination. That is why I have the following questions to the relevant ministers. I paraphrase the Prime Minister, whose appeal I fully support: what concrete measures are you going to take? Colleagues, let there be no misunderstanding. If there is a demand for additional capacity because of the additional needs, then our group is in favour. However, this does not prevent the delay of agreed places from being overtaken. However, this also requires other concrete and feasible measures. What kind of planning is there? What concrete measures are there for short-term realisations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u29	Mr Jambon, Mr Francken, today, in the face of growing criticism, your majority partners – including the Prime Minister who finally dares to criticize you – are moving away. You are now announcing the creation of a plan. After years of outrageous communication flirting with xenophobia, cynicism and surfing on human dishope, but especially six months from the end of the legislature, what can be contained in this plan that you announce to us at great noise? [[After freeing criminals to make room, as my colleague Karin Lalieux pointed out earlier, after you were unable to remove them, after the disastrous management of the Maximilian park that you left in the hands of local authorities, NGOs and citizens, after your obsession with the transmigrants you accuse of not applying for asylum with us but towards whom you do not establish any link of trust – no modification of the Dublin procedure, on the contrary, you establish collaborations with bloody dictatorships – after the dismantling of places in the Fedasil network when all the signals are red, after your announcement to set up an administrative centre at 127bis without any measures being taken to adapt the premises, after having refused to set up a referral centre called for by the field for years and after – not the least – having put children in prison, gentlemen, what can this plan contain?]] Can it be anything more than a communication, empty of content whose sole objective is to hide both your inefficiency and your inhumanity?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the many questions, it is clear that the problem we are facing here does not leave anyone untouched and causes a great deal of commotion. I can only tell you that the relevant ministers in the government regularly concert about concrete plans, make decisions and implement them. Last week I presented a nine-point programme in the nuclear cabinet, some of which could be implemented immediately. A number of other measures still need to be discussed. I will come back to that in a moment. It has already been said by a number of interpleans: it is clear that the problem as a whole can be solved not only by talking about the problem in the Maximilian park - not overnight or at 14 days time. Moreover, the whole of Europe is confronted with it. Today, as we speak, the European Heads of Government are looking into this. The structural solution, namely closing the European borders for illegal migration, will also have to come from there. That is the basis of a solution. With all the other measures, we are doing nothing more than tackling problems created by the failure to close the European borders for illegal migration. As I said, last week we proposed a nine-point programme in the nuclear cabinet. A number of measures have already been implemented, a number of measures still require consultation with other bodies and a number of measures will be more concrete in the government consultation tomorrow. There are three objectives. The three objectives of the proposed measures are as follows. First, to tackle human trafficking networks. That's the key to the problem. Secondly, support the local police for which this problem represents an overload of work. Finally, a third objective is to dissuade asylum seekers from getting to the United Kingdom through our country, which is their intention. I will briefly go over a number of points in the nine-point programme. Colleagues will immediately go into more detail on a number of points. First and foremost, there will be more and better coordinated police actions. The local police took initiatives and the federal police, both the highway police and the railway police, took action, but they were not coordinated. Now, the governors have accepted the assignment to better combine these matters. To give you an idea, in September there are 12 actions planned in the different provinces. Next, the National Administrative Centre was opened last Thursday in Steenokkerzeel. All migrants in transit arrested will be taken there to be processed by the Federal Police, the Judicial Police and the Office of Foreigners. The third element, which is less of our competence, but which we are still discussing, is the improved security of motorway parkings. Mr Weyts, with whom I sat around the table this morning, has a whole programme on this subject. I understand the closure of highway parkings by the mayors in the logic of the municipal elections, but that does not fit in with the logic of taking responsibility together to tackle the problem. For example, Westkapelle's parking lot, which should normally open next week, is the most secure car park that can be imagined. Defence is still in the process of installing the latest installations there today, and there will be continuous private surveillance. Closing that parking lot in those circumstances is quite irresponsible. The fourth element concerns Zeebrugge. Migrants must be convinced that going through Zeebrugge to the UK is not feasible. The Crisis Centre has drawn up a protection plan for Zeebrugge. The services have been coordinated and we currently have a concrete security plan. That brings me to the concert with the United Kingdom. The Secretary of State and I visited the United Kingdom Minister of the Interior last week. It agrees to participate in partnership in the security and protection of Zeebrugge. With the plan now agreed with the domestic partners, we will sit down with the United Kingdom to determine who bears the burden. The United Kingdom is therefore prepared to participate in this. As far as Brussels is concerned, it is easy to say that we bring the migrants arrested in the parking lot in Flanders. They come from Brussels and then move to these locations. We're taking them to the Foreign Office to convince them to apply for asylum. For the moment, I am working in consultation with the mayor of Brussels because I am convinced that we must deal with the problem together: the local police, the local authorities, the federal police and myself. The local and federal police services have developed an action plan, which we must implement. Together, we will succeed, not by opposing each other. In a moment, the Secretary of State will address the distress campaign and the capacity of the closed centres. It is a complex problem. Simple solutions are not possible here. It needs to be addressed at international level. We also need to work together at national level, local and federal authorities, to deal with the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u31	We are faced with a problem that requires cooperation at national and international level. Collaboration means, indeed, Mr De Roover, that we listen to each other and for that I try not to smile, Mrs Lalieux we have got big ears. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, in the government there is very good cooperation in relation to convicted migrants, i.e. persons without a residence permit.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We are now proposing that cooperation be continued, so those who have not yet been convicted, further on. I believe that we have made considerable progress with the current government on this issue. I am convinced that most people who end up in a closed asylum centre and who have been convicted have largely served their time in prison and are transferred four to six months before the end of their prison period, so that DVV could more easily repatriate them. There is the interdepartmental cell for trafficking in human beings and smuggling in which several departments are represented, under the chairmanship of the Justice Department, which is dedicated to the consultation with the public prosecutors. At the parquet, the federal prosecutor is responsible for international cooperation. For example, in Eurojust we have a task force with the United Kingdom, France and the Netherlands on human trafficking. The federal court is also responsible for interfederal problems, for example on the axes of the E40, in order to show you that we work as closely as possible in our country. With regard to the specific problem of the transmigrants and the plans which the government intends to carry out in this area, the transfer of people to Steenokkerzeel does not mean that there will be no official report at local level and that the competent parquet hall will not ensure at local level that the person is assessed as a perpetrator or a victim. The perpetrators remain in Bruges, Wetteren or Ghent; at least they do not go to Brussels, but are selected on the spot and undergo their criminal trail. There's a lot to be expected from the reading of cell phones. That is already perfectly possible at the moment; we are not inventing anything, because it is already regulated in the Code of Criminal Procedure. On the circumstances in which the reading of mobile phones is possible, I asked for the advice of the College of Attorneys General. They will issue an opinion which is important for three criteria. First of all, will we put victims and perpetrators on the same footing? In other words, will all the victims' cell phones be read out? Mr De Roover, unlike the economy, justice is not science, it is an art. So we are trying to figure out how things can work. So what is the religion? Secondly, it is also important that the College of Attorneys-General makes a distinction according to whether or not the persons concerned have their mobile phone read out voluntarily. If this is not done voluntarily, the cell phone must be seized, in accordance with Article 35 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which only the prosecutor and not the judicial police can decide. Thirdly, there will be a question of capacity, but we can resolve this in consultation. In any case, the reading of mobile phones is expected, so that trafficking in human beings can be traced even more easily. Allow me to explain for a moment how the prosecution is currently proceeding, to which Mr Verherstraeten has already referred. In 2017, we started 425 prosecutions on human trafficking. In 2013, there were 288. The number of files dropped dramatically. In addition, we are increasing these efforts. I'm gonna go into criminal law. It is true that in our foreign law a sentence of three months is registered for those without a residence permit on the territory. It is also true that this sentence is rarely applied because the persons concerned cannot be taken into custody; crimes with sentences of less than one year do not lead to a provisional detention. Mr De Roover, I would like criminal law to be different, but the recidivism that can be punished for up to one year is not enough to take someone who is recidivising into custody.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u32	Then change the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u33	I've changed many laws, Mr Degroote. From time to time you tell me that I'm changing too many. As far as the substance of the case is concerned, a recidivist is referred to as a recidivist by the bottom judge, not by the council chamber, not by the investigating judge. If you agree, perhaps you can also explain that to Mr De Roover. Anyway, we can't take these people into custody. However, I would like to say that the majority has adopted an important law in the field of ascension in ports. We have an active policy of persecution in this area in West Flanders, because the penalty is one year. Those who are caught climbing into ports, we are therefore taking custody. Another question I do not want to have today's debate on is whether it would be useful to take the people that are being discussed here into custody. Once they have been locked up and served their sentence, I think we should release them again. In our rule of law, there is such a thing as freedom. For the time being, there is a great deal of European case law and a great deal of case law from our Constitutional Court. May I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that at the time I changed the law and tried to tell the judges that they could not give an anklet to people without a residence permit, nor when they were in custody or when they were convicted, because it is difficult to give an anklet to someone who has no address, the Constitutional Court has cancelled the relevant provision for human rights. May I also remind you that we are not much further away in this area today? May I also remind you that a judgment of 6 December 2011 of the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg provides that, on return, we should always opt for administrative sanctions as far as possible? So if you want to change the law, Mr Degroote, you will have to take that judgment of 6 December 2011 into account, so that your law would pass the test of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard a word today, Mr De Roover, that we differ on the law, does not pose me so many problems that did not appeal to me, Mr De Roover. That's why we stayed unemployed. I didn't appreciate that. Firstly, we work very well together and, secondly, I think that a rule of law has its rights. Security is important, freedom is important. Anyone who opts for security in all circumstances does not deserve freedom. I said it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I will keep it a bit shorter and I will deal with those points that have not yet been raised. Many points have already been mentioned. Firstly, it is important to say that it remains an absolute priority to expel criminals who do not have a right of residence. We get very good figures: 378 in 2012, 1 622 last year and again this year excellent figures. August was a very good month and also September will be. The expulsion of criminals remains an absolute priority. We will continue to do so in the coming months and years. The situation is changing, of course. We evolved into a situation in which the phenomena and problems of transmigration grew. More and more we heard local areas complain and ask to do something, to act. Transmigrants are being apprehended now. They are ordered to leave the territory and must be released immediately. An hour later, they're back in the police zone, at the bus or train stop. That had to stop. We've been watching this. We have considered that the local police should be supported in the administrative handling of the problem. This administrative handling is very long and time-consuming for a local area which often has only one or two intervention teams available, especially on weekends and evenings. That is why we have established the Centre for screening illegal immigrants. It's been operational in Steenokkerzeel since last week. Secondly, at least we want to ensure that such people do not get out after an hour. There's no point, of course. That is pure frustration for the people, for the local police and for the mayors, who are wondering what that is. It had to be different and so we set up that centre. People arriving through the centre are now being locked up in a closed centre for at least a few days and are not immediately ordered to leave the territory. That was absolutely the ambition and that is why we have done so. We had to clear places for that, in the short term, that happened. We've cleared places in Bruges. We have cleared our seats in 127a. As a result, a number of people with orders to leave the territory have been evicted from the centres. We had a new priority. There are now two priority categories. Criminals remain absolutely a priority. We will also break all the records this year. Secondly, transit migration has now become a priority, because we clearly need to send a signal to smugglers, to the people that they should not come through Belgium, that there is no longer any possibility here. I would like to add two more things. There were questions about the delay I would have experienced in the master plan for the closed centers. It is true that there is a limited delay. Normally we should be 50 places further, which should open on 1 June. So it's not about 90 or 100 places, like I used to be here. That's not correct. There would also be 40 places open on January 1, 2019. That timing is not going to be met according to the estimates of the Buildings Regie. There is a rational explanation for that. It has to do with the tender and registration, where not everything went as planned. It's kind of technical. Mr Verherstraeten, by the way, you have been Secretary of State for the Government of the Buildings. You know it doesn't always work out the way people want it to. That's the way it is. So there will be a slight delay, but by the summer of next year we will have 90 seats. However, ladies and gentlemen, those 90 places will not be enough. We need more. That is why tomorrow I will come up with a concrete plan to get additional capacity for a closed centre operational in the very short term in order to deal with this phenomenon even better and more efficiently. Finally, there was also a question about the misuse of procedures. The question was what I have already done about it, since it is in the coalition agreement. We have already done a great deal. The law has been amended. The law on the manifestly unlawful appeal has been voted. It applies. If the RVV used to say that there was a procedural abuse, he had to organise a second hearing day. Now you can do it all at once. In one hearing, he may rule on the substance of the case and at the same time impose a fine on the lawyer concerned. The RVV now has these instruments. This Chamber voted this law last year. Secondly, Mr Dewael, we have voted in favour of a law in which there will be lengthy procedures. In fact, if a new 9bis application is submitted, just in order to extend the stay, it will be swallowed up by the Department of Foreign Affairs. The previous application will be annulled and only the latter will be taken into account. The same applies to the 9th procedures. This ensures that for the first time in history there are no waiting lists in the field of regularization 9bis. We have had a delay of 20 to 30 000 files, but it has been completely eliminated, inter alia, by this uplifting story. Thirdly, the pro-Deo system, which costs a lot of money, has been reformed together with Mr Geens. In addition, pro-Deo attorneys are specialized in foreign law for certain procedures that they initiate less points, or even none at all. We also see that that has an effect. Steps have been taken forward. In the case of closed housing units, I made extensive comments yesterday in the Chamber. If asylum is applied for in the name of children, as is established internationally and in accordance with European law, this is not an abuse of procedure. Then there is indeed the possibility of appeal. That means waiting ten days to appeal, after which the RVV has to decide on it, organise a hearing day, and so on. That's how they get there in 28 days. We will discuss this in the government tomorrow. I think this is the most feasible action plan. I haven't heard any alternatives either. It's a difficult problem, but we're really working on it. Everything is now becoming operational. The detachment campaign is also online. That's very good, too. The Prime Minister is in Vienna right now to talk about the European story. The interventions on this matter were quite justified. We need to better protect the external border of Schengen against illegal migration, otherwise this will remain a topic in this Chamber for many years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u35	Mr President, I would like to thank both ministers and the Secretary of State for their answers. There is something I look at with big eyes and listen to with big ears: that is when Mr Francken and Mr Jambon say that it is not that simple. If there is any simplism in this debate now, it is with the N-VA, and often with the Secretary of State himself. No one says it's simple, but I would like to invite the N-VA to maintain that consistently and finally opt for a different corporate identity. The fact that Minister Geens here has to explain the abc of the rule of law to Mr De Roover merely underlines that we really have a problem there. Mr Francken, no one says that you have an easy task, but many people would like a Secretary of State to be involved in the policy. In fact, I very much agree with certain colleagues, including the majority, who say that the situation we are facing is the result of the policy of the Secretary of State, which is primarily ideologically driven, driven by communication rather than aimed at solving the problem. You think tweeting is more important than the needs of our mayors. That is what we have to make today after four years of Theo Francken. You promised a migration code. There isn't yet. What is it? A campaign book by Theo Francken, presented next week. Of course, it's good that politicians write books. That is inspiring, Mr Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u36	You may do that, but you must above all... Mr Francken, more important than your tweets, more important than your lectures, than your campaign is your policy as Secretary of State. If you focus on this, our country can deal with these problems. I'm 100 percent convinced of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u37	Mr Jambon, yes, the question is complex. That is what we have been saying for the past four years. And then, you have a secretary of state who embodies simplism, populism, electorism, buzz, tweeting and total inefficiency. I regret here that neither Mr Geens nor yourself, Mr Jambon, have condemned the actions of the Secretary of State. He's freed criminals. I didn't hear you condemn that. Do you share the policy of your Secretary of State? Do you agree that criminals are brought back to the heart of Brussels? Is that your policy? Is that your consultation? Is that your collaboration? It's not ours, anyway! You know that the mayor of the city of Brussels participates in all your meetings. But what he's asking for is actions. What we are asking is not to empty Flanders and bring all these migrants back to Maximilian Park. That's what you're doing, you just said it! They're brought back on weekends or after 5:00 p.m. Where do you think they're going, Mr. Jambon? Maximilian Park! They can't ring at the Foreign Office, where you're hosting a 24-hour reception. You know that the majority of them will stay in the park, because they will not seek asylum. What we are asking for is a referral centre for migrants in transit, as it exists in all European cities. I didn't hear you about that. You won't find a solution otherwise. The operations of your police in Kruibeke, Jabbeke, Brussels, all your operations are in vain, since in any case, these people disappear very quickly in nature. We are asking for efficiency. We are asking no more words, no more tweets, no more buzz, but a center of orientation so that finally, Maximilian Park is returned to the citizens. You forget that there is also a population around the park. Two thousand people live there. But of course, it doesn't matter to you!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u38	Mr President, Minister Geens, you call law art. I can tell you that economy is very often flying. But that is a subject that we may be able to develop further in the next debate. A number of speakers rightly referred here to international law. That is, of course, at the heart of the solution. Our group is convinced that a number of modernisations of certain international rules of law are more than pressing. It was said here that a proposal I would have made this morning would be incomplete. Just so we're clear, I didn't make a proposal, I just wish the law would be applied. That's not a suggestion. And it's not unbearable either. That is even at the heart of the rule of law. The word " rule of law" is regularly used here. Applying the law is at the heart of the rule of law. And those laws have come into being here. I would also like to point out that when that law came into being, the explanatory statement is clear in that it was deliberately chosen for three months, as the first sentence, because it was then possible to proceed with detention from three months onwards. In the meantime, of course, we have seen a certain amount of laxism, which can only be done from one year on. Within the logic which the Minister has developed here and which I want to follow in part, it is actually a plea for the adjustment of those three months, within the logic of that time, to one year. In this way we can act again in the spirit of the original legislator. This is, of course, about the fact that the citizens, as well as the policemen, have to persecute the same people every day and send them back to the streets with a note, do not understand why something that is being restrained by criminal law remains de facto impunity. For the sake of clarity, I did not say that justice in its entirety is unemployed. Let us get rid of this misunderstanding, should it have arisen. The work on human trafficking and the like is extremely important, and I wish the services a great deal of success in that regard. Finally, in this debate and on this subject, the opposition has finally degraded itself to irrelevantness. Mr Calvo, I had expected a start of suggestion, of possible ideas of solution, but I was too optimistic in my expectations of your speech. It is interesting, however, that we are seeing an evolution among those who do want to think seriously about this issue. There is room to do things that until recently were seemingly impossible. I hope that we in all the majority groups will find the cooperation that is necessary to tackle this particularly difficult problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u39	Gentlemen Ministers and Secretary of State, thank you for the answer. But you reap what you sow. As Mr Dewael has just said, you have said for years that you will solve all the problems quickly and easily, and you had the political courage to do so. Today, however, I hear here for more than half an hour explaining how complex it all is. Just so we're clear, I'm happy with that growing insight. Congratulations! Minister Jambon has presented nine proposals which will be discussed tomorrow at the Council of Ministers. If I am well informed, these proposals were already there last week, but then the Prime Minister said they were not sufficient, not concrete and not effective. The Minister was allowed to do his homework again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u40	A factual correction is in place here for a proper debate. So this is a factual correction, not a reply. The nine proposals were discussed last week in the nuclear cabinet. We ourselves proposed that two proposals be submitted to the government this week with more concrete implementations. You said that nine proposals would be presented to the government tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u41	No, I said "last week."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u42	That is not the case. We ourselves proposed that two elements should be further developed tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u43	Mr De Roover, I think you are a little arrogant. You have told us for years that we cannot do anything right and that we have nothing to offer. Now you are asking us for solutions, which you will not listen to. I do have a solution to one of the aspects. During the discussions of Secretary of State Francken's policy letters from 2014 onwards, we noted that, and he himself indicated this in an interview that was one of the biggest challenges and even the biggest challenge for his policy, the writing of a new migration book. After all, there is a lot of regulation, including regulations that contradict each other. You know that a transparent migration manual is also democratic. It is easy for everyone to understand and explain to everyone. All policy letters raised this theme in committee. Mr Secretary of State, you have committed yourself to doing so. I note today that there are working groups in progress, albeit very limited and not yet working widely. You need to find a basis for that manual. You only have six months left. So I'm afraid the migration book won't be there. What's gonna happen? That is a book that you write, which is not a problem in itself, but in which all the blame is cast on Europe. Meanwhile, you can crawl behind the curtain. Nothing was achieved. It is quite clear that we need a broad vision of migration policy, not only on asylum or return policy, but also on economic migration and on other ways of migrating. That's the drill. That is the long-term challenge. You'll be paid for that. I suggest you just get on with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u44	First of all, Mr Secretary of State, I have taken note of the fact that you have actually been lagging behind in the implementation of the master plan. You've specified how many places we're talking about. I have announced that my political groups will listen to all the constructive proposals at the Council of Ministers tomorrow in order to resolve the backlog. I'm not even ruling out any additional resources. The problem of capacity is real. However, we must be aware that even with 500 or 1 000 additional places, the problem of the category which does not get expelled will not be solved. Secondly, on the abuse of procedures, you mention a number of points. Nevertheless, I would like to reiterate the fact that certain decisions can be appealed against, both at the civil court and at the Council for Foreign Affairs. Moreover, certain statements by both bodies sometimes go against each other. They don't concord. You should also tackle this problem. It is good to point out the role of the lawyers, but as long as the procedures are in place... if one puts the cat by the milk, she will of course drink. Thirdly, I would like to highlight the European, international aspect. I agree with what the Minister of the Interior said. Four to five months ago, we all confessed to our European creed. We said that this had to be resolved at the source, in North Africa. I am not going to go into that now, but we are now dealing with a specific category of migrants. Most migrants want to stay in the country where they are. This is not the case here. I would like to draw your attention once again to the responsibility of the UK. We must negotiate on this. I refer to what has been done in France in connection with Dunkirk and Calais. You all know that these problems are shifting and moving. I am not saying that the problem of transmigration in France has been solved, but the British have made a significant contribution to investing in the security and transit of those ports. If we now have effects in Zeebrugge and Ostend, we must call on the British to show that same solidarity. I hear the Prime Minister's working on that right now. Whatever is possible for the French must also be possible for the Belgians.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u45	Mr President, I heard from the ministers, and in particular from the Minister for the Interior, that one of the priorities and objectives is to tackle the smugglers of human beings. That is good and should be the priority of police and justice. That priority should not be elsewhere. I also hear the local police will be supported. It's about more than time, because the local police commissioners have been yelling for that for a long time. However, I must say, Mr Vice-President, that I consider it inappropriate for mayors to be accused of election fever, as if ministers and Members of Parliament, we, therefore, were immune to it. During the holidays we heard mayors from various parties, colleagues, something that some people forget. Mayors, of any party, are responsible for security in their territory. We cannot deny that there have been very painful security risks and incidents in recent weeks. Instead of preaching a mayor here, I suggest you sit around the table and examine what was promised, what was carried out and whether this is enough to guarantee security. We must not hide the fact that we often differ between the majority and the opposition in relation to these difficult problems. The majority also sometimes differ in accents. There's nothing wrong with that, that's democracy. But on one issue, we are in total agreement with the majority, in particular, that this problem is extremely complex. And a complex matter deserves communication and nuance, with respect and without caricatures. I would ask all the ministers responsible and present to give carte blanche tomorrow, at the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister, who rightly calls, so that he has every opportunity to find international support for a European policy. This will be important to find effective solutions at source and mouth.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to see that, six months after the end of the legislature, you have discovered the hot water, since you are announcing here that, in order to solve the problem, you must fight the traffickers, secure the parking lots among others and strengthen the local police. Mr Jambon, we know that, throughout the country, local police are in a hurry to come in to support the federal government and you are here to tell us the opposite. A little serious, please! In short, this plan is only an empty communication of content. Ladies and gentlemen, for the past five years, everyone knows that asylum policy embodies the moral bankruptcy of this government, which is endorsed by the whole majority. We have now learned, from Mr Jambon's own mouth, that what was supposed to be the result of the Prime Minister's reshaping is in fact only the continuation of the work. So we're not even in the frame anymore. Today, at all levels, your policy has sow chaos. It's to believe that your only goal is to prepare the conditions for future crises with the sole aim of continuing your media surfing. Mr Jambon, as you said, we are in the election campaign and we wonder who benefits from the crime. What is clear is that Belgian citizens, Flemish voters deserve better. They deserve better than you, your cynicism and your far right hints. They deserve better than those who prefer stigmatisation than cooperation, than those who prefer to praise Salvini rather than negotiate and work with Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u47	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, imagine that one day a man in a net suit will be standing at your door, flanked by two agents, who are strict but politely saying that he must tell you that you must leave your home with regret. The judge ruled that the land on which you reside was unlawfully acquired hundreds of years ago. The land and the associated house is now assigned to people with the same ethnic background as the then injured party. You will not be compensated, you may leave the premises immediately and these agents will accompany you. This scenario sounds like an unlikely nightmare, but soon it will be reality in South Africa if President Ramaphosa continues his plans to drive the farmers away from their country without any compensation. Last week, the South African press informed us that these plans were supported by the Belgian Government. I even read that this government would have promised EUR 30 million of support to support those controversial land reform processes there. Minister, you would have even described this radical expropriation policy as the best way without compensation. We have seen this best way in the past, in Mugabe's Zimbabwe, wherever that has happened. From Africa's grain barn, this country evolved into a chaotic area of famine, leading to violence against the peasants. In South Africa, that will be extra violence, because the African farming community is already dealing daily with this horrific massacre, the wave of violent tortures that I have often questioned you about. Is it true, Minister, that this government supports these plans? Is it true that this government is willing to make our taxpayers unwittingly pay for that land theft?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u48	Mrs Pas, I would first of all like to thank you for your interest in my mission in four different African countries. It's the first time I've heard of your interest in that. My mission concerned four countries: Benin, South Africa, Angola and Congo-Brazzaville. As far as the planned land reform in South Africa is concerned, I have said something effectively during my visit to Pretoria, but you must read it correctly. Belga's message about this is correct, so it is also easy to read it correctly. I have not made a financial commitment, but I have only reiterated that Belgium has been investing in projects since 1995 to increase its involvement in land reform. It's those projects I referred to in Pretoria. I did not support unilateral solutions. On the contrary, I have called for a balanced solution and dialogue with all parties. I remember from my numerous contacts that the subject is very sensitive. It is precisely for this reason that consensual solutions need to be sought. I asked not to use force and, once again, to have a real dialogue between the different partners. I repeat, however, that I have not committed myself to the Belgian Government. I have only repeated what has been possible for many years, since 1995, with the development cooperation of Belgium in South Africa.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u49	You say, Minister, that the coverage of the South African press was not correct, and they do not differ much from our press on a regular basis. A mass land theft and a new apartheid are the horrific prospects facing South Africa. You're way too lax in that. You say that you have not committed yourself and that you do not support the land reform process as such. I hope the government doesn't support it. It certainly won't be in my name. I also hope that you will finally knock on the table on the next visit, because I have questioned you a great many times about this situation, and that has always been without consequence. I hope something finally comes of it. I would ask the N-VA colleagues to keep an eye on that. Yesterday, at the meeting of Minister Jambon's Committee on the Interior, I was asked to finally have language legislation applied in response to the fact that he is not doing anything about it, because that is not in the coalition agreement. I think that you should knock on the table, because the support of the crapulous ANC regime that participates in land theft is not included in the coalition agreement either and cannot do so in our name at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u50	Minister, I have been following this issue for a number of years, because I think it is important that the Belgian Muslim community should be able to reunite with this place of worship and that the link with Saudi Arabia should be dismantled. After the OCAM report and the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, the government decided to break this convention with Saudi Arabia. Saudi officials had made very constructive comments on how they would actually cooperate with the Belgian Government. But I have the impression that we're being rolled into flour and that we're far from the point of cooperation. The Saudi officials had said that they would not oppose the breach of the convention, but, in reality, they tried to cancel the breach by bringing an action before the Council of State. They have just been dismissed because the Council of State has found itself incompetent. They will therefore continue their proceedings before the ordinary courts. They had said that they would be transparent on their accounts and had rushed back, following the commission of inquiry, the accounts for 2015 but nothing for 2016 and 2017. After checking with the National Bank and the Registry of the Brussels Commercial Court, there is no account. We're back in opacity. I have an internal account of the Great Mosque, which confirms that the World Islamic League continues to be its main sponsor. Finally, there are courses in Arabic. The April 2018 OCAM report shows that extremist manuals calling for hatred, calling for murder, are being used in these formations! As far as I'm concerned, these courses are repeated with the same textbooks! Minister, you and we are being rolled in flour by the Saudis concerning this Great Mosque. This is a matter of particular concern because it concerns our security, our living together, our social cohesion. Minister, I ask you what you are going to do to ensure that the recommendations of the committee of inquiry are finally implemented. On the other hand, I mean that the price that would be charged by the Saudis for the work carried out in the Great Mosque would be very high? I'd like some information from you on this. I would like to be reassured that you will implement the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u51	Mr Dallemagne, I am not going to repeat everything you have said about the actions taken by the government to implement the recommendations of the committee of inquiry and the conclusions of the reports provided, in particular, by the OCAM. All diplomatic contacts have been made. I have received on several occasions my Saudi counterpart, who has publicly confirmed the willingness to hand over the buildings of the Great Mosque to the Belgian government with a view to choosing another destination and who has undertaken to work on the transparency of financial flows. On both sides, I can confirm that we continue to work with Saudi Arabia to move in that direction. Our new ambassador in Riyadh – who is, moreover, the first woman to hold this diplomatic office in this country – will continue the work in this direction. The debate is also continuing in Brussels. The Minister of the Régie des Bâtiments has implemented the conclusions. Following proceedings before the Council of State, the Council of State declared itself incompetent. I hope that we will complete the procedures and be able to choose a new assignment for the Great Mosque. This is the clear and clear intent of the federal government. You know that we talked several times about a debate with the Muslim cult executive to see what kind of new relationship we could forge. Furthermore, I can confirm to you that, on financial flows – and not only with Saudi Arabia, but with all the countries of the region – we are trying to move either towards new legislation that would allow, even in the countries of origin, to guarantee true transparency or, at least, to conclude bilateral agreements. We are repeatedly told that, in order to obtain funding to a foreign State, the latter must give its consent. Failing this, the funding shall be terminated. As soon as we become aware of specific funding – because one thing is to hear about it, another is to have the information – we will ask for a stop. The Government's intention is to respect and implement the findings of the commission of inquiry without hesitation. As far as possible courses and manuals that could be used are concerned, you know that this is not directly within my competence. Having said that, I will not fail to draw the attention of my colleagues in charge of these questions once again to the comments you have made.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u52	Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, thank you. I hear your reassuring words. I just want to warn you. Obviously, you have in front of you a government that says one thing and does the opposite. Indeed, it is putting everything in place to prevent our recommendations from the Committee of Inquiry and the Belgian Government's decisions. Moreover, as we know here and elsewhere, he is very determined to continue his financing of the Salafist currents, which are undermining our cohesion and instrumentalizing the Muslim community in Belgium. By not filing the accounts in 2015, 2016 and 2017, this ASBL could be dissolved. She doesn't respect the law. It contravenes Belgian law. This is a problem that we had pointed out in our committee of inquiry. This continues in the same way. We can dance on our heads, we can be alarmed, we can have reports from the OCAM, a parliamentary committee of inquiry, Belgian laws that are obviously flouted for Saudi Arabia, it is not important! She continues as in the past and makes a lot of fun of the statements you're making here in the House. In any case, it continues its project, which is very worrying, I think, for our security and for our social cohesion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u53	Minister, what I have been saying since the beginning of the legislature about the numerus clausus is finally an unexpected echo, which I am delighted to hear. The numerus clausus is an absurdity that is less and less defensible. It is on purpose that I use the same term as the French President, Mr Macron, who announced this Tuesday the abolition of the numerus clausus in France at the beginning of 2020. The term "absurdness" seems to me to describe the situation well. Of course it is absurd to distribute INAMI numbers to foreign graduates who come to practice in Belgium, while our own young people are denied the possibility of following the path they have chosen. Some even go abroad to study medicine. It is even more absurd to maintain such a system in times of shortage. The debate is mainly polluted by Community considerations at home, which is even more absurd than in France. The last absurdity, Madam Minister, is the day you set the allocation of INAMI quotas on the basis of the number of students enrolled in schools in each community. As if it were related to public health needs! Madam Minister, while France is going to give up the numerus clausus, do you not think that it is time to recognize that this system is completely out of date with us as well? Is it not finally time to take an objective look at the situation throughout the country, to listen to experts who denounce the risks of shortages and to take account of needs on the ground rather than setting blind quotas?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u54	Madam Secretary, not so long ago the government crowded victory, because the problem of RIZIV numbers was solved. 20 years after the Flemings started an admission test for Medicine, the French Community would also organise one. My colleague from the majority summarized this very nicely: hallelujah! Now we're a few months later. I have to admit, that admissions test is here. But apparently it was a piece of cake. 'Cause what turns out to be? 1 138 students have passed. But there are only 505 RIZIV numbers available. This means that there will be twice as many students starting training if there are RIZIV numbers. I have the impression, Madam Secretary, that this hallelujah should become a mea culpa. Yes, I fully support you when you say that the French Community has a huge responsibility for this. You're absolutely right about that. The question is of course: where is that pact des Belges, where is that loyal fédérale? We, Flemings, only make concessions and what do we get out of it? We get French-speaking disloyalty on our plate. We, Flemings, will apply the rules again, because we do not want to see social security derailed financially. But the French-speaking people do not seem to care much about that. What is it, Madam Secretary? Minister Marcourt is laughing at you and the federal government. He even claims you're in bad faith. He likes the exam, he says, and the number of graduates, that's a problem for Mrs. De Block. I'd like your response to that now, ma'am. What will you do?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u55	Minister, your reaction to the non-compliance with the quota for French-speaking physicians and dentists was very harsh. The ping-pong you've done with Minister Marcourt is once again dismaying. Patients and future doctors deserve better. Your reaction is all the more challenging because the quotas you have set are useless. You want to limit the medical supply, but your system has a huge breach, because if you impose strict quotas on us, you open the door to doctors and dentists trained abroad who arrive, every year, in considerable proportions. For 2015 alone, there were more INAMI numbers distributed to foreigners than to young Francophones! That's absurd! The quotas you impose on Belgians make no sense. The need to limit medical supply is increasingly being questioned. But if you remain convinced, then also impose quotas on foreigners! I introduced a bill to that effect more than two years ago. You have not undertaken anything and your majority has rejected this proposal. Do you still feel that a limitation of the medical supply is necessary? Do you measure the reality of 120 Walloon communes where the shortage of general practitioners is objectified? Do you also measure the shortage in several specializations? Will you finally follow my proposal and introduce a quota for foreign doctors to stop penalizing our young people unjustly and absurdly? If you do not, only one measure is necessary: the complete abolition of the quotas imposed on Belgians.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u56	Madam Secretary, after the previous speaker, I have to conclude that we really live in two worlds. After all, my discourse will be a completely different discourse. It will be a discourse of total disbelief. When I first heard the news through Le Soir last week and then through several other channels, I really fell off my chair. I didn't think it was possible. The first thoughts that occurred to me were of disbelief and even anger over so much irresponsibility. Do I need to remind you that we went through a complete process together, which resulted in good medical planning in our country? We now know that 1 138 students will start the course of Medicine, while in 2024 there will be only 505 places, for which a number will be awarded to practice the profession. Madam Secretary, we did have an agreement here, which consisted of two parts. First of all, an efficient filter was required with the entrance exam. This entrance exam has been organised in Flanders for 20 years. That filter came in. But there was a second condition, one that meant that the filter had to work effectively. We had also attached a condition to that. We were willing, even though the RIZIV numbers had already been used up for the French-speaking students, to show our good heart and to give the students of 2018, 2019 and 2020 another RIZIV number to allow them to enter the profession. These young people have been studying for six years. The condition was that the filter would work efficiently. That's the deal. Madam Secretary, we must now see that we and you are being laughed at. In fact, according to what I have read, your colleague has suggested that you are of evil will. However, I am now addressing very specifically those colleagues who belong to the French-speaking community government. Colleagues, what you are doing today is playing with dreams, ambitions and the future of young people. That's really not your responsibility. Madam Secretary, have you taken an initiative yet? What will you do now that we know that the filter has not worked? Will you take action and not give the graduating students a RIZIV number in June 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u57	The argument that there would be a global shortage of doctors is totally unfounded. I call for more caution when some talk about shortages and call for the quota to be phased out. A system of quotaing is crucial to ensure a good quality from training to doctor and to maintain expertise during the professional career. The overall quota of trained doctors has also been steadily increased over the years. I give figures: 757 in 2011 and 1 445 in the years 2023 to 2026. That's a doubling of the number of doctors. It acts as if we train just as many of them every year. In its opinion of 2017, the Planning Committee, the third opinion, I invite you to read it, not a shortage, but a number of doctors. It is not that there are not enough doctors, but there are imbalances between medical specialties, between sectors of activity within the same specialty and between provinces and even boroughs. Since the sixth state reform, the Communities have been responsible for subquotas, as well as for geographical distribution. Indeed, the federal government remains competent only to determine the overall number of physicians who will have access to an internship place to obtain a medical specialty. At the federal level, we are not inactive. In the coming days, a scientific study will be initiated, at my request, on the parameters to be used to define an optimal density of professionals to meet the care needs of the Belgian population. All efforts are therefore made to strive for an optimal medical supply. This is also covered by legislation. Yes, the Communities and Community ministers must assume their responsibilities to ensure proper distribution and access to medical supplies, but they are also obliged to respect the quotas set. In fact, the current entry into the French Community amounts to twice the proposed quota, i.e. 505 for the promotional year 2024. That raises serious questions. The quotas will have to be respected. The Act provides for quota attestations, which will be granted by the Public Health Office on the basis of the quotas. Without a quota attestation, the doctor cannot be further trained. As Mrs Muylle has said, we have already had to settle for the students who were misled by a poor policy of Minister Marcort and who entered the studies without the hope of being able to practice their profession. The granting of the additional certificates was conditioned, as Mrs Muylle pointed out. That condition is maintained. I do not want us to end up again in the situation I found when I took office in 2024. Hopefully, Minister Marcort will see the light and assume his responsibility towards the students, their parents and their sponsors, and thus towards society, who will have to contribute to the costs of all these students. I will put this issue on the agenda of the Inter-Ministerial Conference and you can assume that there will be a serious discussion on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u58	Madam Minister, you said that the problem was due to the too many Francophone students who passed their entrance exam. The bar has been set too low to be able to eliminate the Walloon and Brussels candidates. Nearly 1,200 candidates have passed this year, while 600 INAMI certificates will be available at the end of their six years of study. I note that you refuse to recognize that the issue of 600 certificates is insufficient for the needs of Walloons and Brusselsers. I also note that you prefer doctors who have studied abroad in Walloons and Brussels. Finally, I note that the MR was silent in all languages on this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u59	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. Yes, Mr Muylle, I admit that Belgium is a country of two worlds. Madam Secretary, you continue to believe that Minister Marcourt will do something, and I respect that. But Minister Marcort has lied and deceived the Flemings a thousand times, and he is not alone. I don't know if you read Le Soir during the summer. The chairman of the MR, Mr Chastel, also said in Le Soir that the agreement was actually a French-speaking victory and that the Flemings did not win anything. The way things look today, he's right. French-speaking Belgium does not have to reduce the surplus of 3 000, but only from 1 531 RIZIV numbers and is given the time to do so until 2038. That payment plan will not be paid by the French speakers. It will again be the Flemings, who will be presented the invoice on their plate. No, the problem is not solved. Madam Minister, I sincerely hope that you will be able to resolve it, but I have serious doubts about it. The file will be moved back to the next government. Yeah, the Fleming's been tricked again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u60	Minister, I have asked you very specific questions. You didn't have a word to finally impose quotas on doctors and dentists trained abroad. You continue to want to impose very strict quotas on our young people trained in Belgium, even though data have been collected, especially in the Walloon Region. You say that there is no shortage, that it doesn't matter. During the debate that you will have at the inter-ministerial conference, I invite you to also examine the data collected in the Walloon Region. When 120 municipalities experience shortages, it is too simple to say that there is a concern between the different training courses and the different specializations. You continue, Madam Minister, to favour doctors and dentists trained abroad by penalizing our young people. I come back with the bill that I introduced here several years ago. I invite you to take it. Otherwise, the choice of this government and this majority will remain, over and over again, that of a system that discriminates backwards for our Belgians, which favours foreigners. This is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u61	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I sincerely hope that you will be able to teach your colleagues some common sense, because I have my doubts about that. It is believed that you will not be harsh and that in June next year, just after the parliamentary elections, you will not dare not assign the RIZIV numbers. It is hoped that the majority will sweep the sponge over it in 2024 and add the 600 doctors. In addition, next year's exam is also available, and then we can add it in 2025. That is what people are hoping for, but that is playing with the future of young people. I would also ask you to apply the second part of the agreement we have concluded. No matter how hard it is, it's the only lesson one will understand. When there are no more RIZIV-numbers, there are no more to hand out in June next year. I hope you'll stick to that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u62	Mr President, Minister, first of all I would like to fully endorse Mr Muylle's last sentence. My question is on a different subject. The credibility of health care has not been so good in the past week, especially for its structures. It started at the beginning of the week, when the Court of Auditors issued the latest audit on the funding and control mechanisms of the sickness funds. The conclusions are actually really disconcerting. This is a report of 200 pages, the first part of which deals with the parameters used for the EUR 1 billion of financial resources that the sickness funds receive annually for their operation. In the report, the Court of Auditors makes it quite clear, moreover completely similar to the 1987 report, that these parameters do not provide the appropriate funding at all. In 1987 there was even over-financing. Now, thirty years later, the Court of Auditors has to confirm once again that those findings are correct. That wasn't the most remarkable thing. After all, the Court of Auditors cannot claim to be sure that it is about overfinancing. The Court of Auditors cannot know this, because even the Court of Auditors does not know exactly what the sickness funds are doing with their means of operation. Why don't we let that verdict go through? Even the Court of Auditors does not know exactly what the sickness funds are doing with the EUR 1 billion operating resources allocated to them! The Court of Auditors doesn't know that because the health insurance funds don't want us to know. There is no transparency. The latest audit that came out this week was about the control of the health insurance funds. This also showed that there is no transparency. The checks cannot be carried out to the full because the sickness funds do not give access to their data. Moreover, the sickness funds are legally obliged to carry out internal checks, but when RIZIV asked the sickness funds to inform them of how these internal checks were carried out, there was no transparency. Madam Secretary, it's not about small business. An audit was also published on expenditure in medical care, a much larger money pool to control sickness funds and a historically increased response mechanism. The Court of Auditors says it doesn't work, so there's no response. That's just what we started the week with. Mr President, I would like to add that this was followed by the communication of the Medical Evaluation and Control Service. The Service had taken a small sample, namely in 585 files. This showed that more than EUR 5 million of fraud had been deliberately committed in the care sector. The health insurance funds should normally check that. However, the sickness funds did not pass the data on to the DGEC.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u63	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u64	Yeah, I know that. Mrs. Van Peel, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u65	Mr Laaouej, the columns are coming into view, so I know that you find this somewhat annoying, but I will finish my question. Madam Secretary, have you heard from the sickness funds? As far as I know, the sickness funds have never been quieter than this week. What will you actually do about these two cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u66	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I was a little surprised by the size of the question asked by Mrs Van Peel because the question as such did not allow the idea that we were going to talk about the issue of mutualities and, above all, the audit report carried out by the Court of Auditors concerning the control of mutualities by the Office for the Control of Mutualities and by the INAMI services. I encourage all colleagues to read this report from the Court of Auditors. In any case, this is an extremely important element. I would also like to add that this control was carried out on the basis of a resolution that we all voted on 22 October 2015. It is therefore in response to a request from Parliament. What do we see in this audit? It is that there are four extremely important shortcomings. Firstly, there is clearly, if I have understood correctly, a lack of transparency. There is a lack of clear standards and respect for mutualities. There is also the finding that the INAMI and the Office for the Control of Mutualities have too little information for an efficient control of these mutualities. The last element is that the effect of several controls has been or is clearly limited. How do you want to have effective control from the moment we do not have the tools that allow it? This is obviously extremely delicate because there is a problem of transparency. When we know that the administrative costs are just over one billion for the organisation of these five unions, in any case in 2018, it is extremely challenging. How is this amount actually used? Is it not appropriate to have full transparency with regard to the use of these amounts? Madam Minister, I imagine that you have a very clear answer to give us in relation to that because I think it is your responsibility to do what is necessary to have full transparency on this issue. I will therefore pay close attention to the answer you will give.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u67	It is important that, on the basis of the contribution of the citizens, every euro is well spent in the financing of the healthcare sector and that it effectively goes to the care of the patient. That's why the audits were requested from the Court of Auditors. As a government, the Medical Evaluation and Control Service presented its annual report last Tuesday. During the last few months I have given my audit services additional tools, Mrs van Peel, for example the legal possibility of extrapolating data. Hence the calculations that have been made. Also with the flux certificate my services can in a detailed way request data from the sickness funds for their investigations. This makes it possible to obtain the necessary information. I also note that in the 'enforcement' plan, which we have also made a follow-up to for the period 2018-2020, in the 'data exchange and data management' section, all data from the sickness funds will be disclosed. If not, there will indeed be repercussions. In the section 'fraud' and 'effective care', we focus mainly on medical imaging, clinical biology and the use of biosimular medicines. So it's being worked hard. I also think that the sickness funds have a great responsibility in the lack of information provided to the Court of Auditors and that will certainly be discussed with them. Like you, I haven't heard them either. They dug themselves in exactly. Mr Thiéry, my reaction to this audit is set out in Annex 5 of the Court of Auditors' report entitled "Letter from the Minister for Social Affairs and Public Health". This letter is very detailed. You will see that I am talking about actions 24, 25, 26 as well as measures such as the "new attest flow". There are also detailed data on medical benefits from insurers and IDES; this is the flow of data on incapacity for work because there too, it is not clear. Like previous audits, these will be reanalyzed and then used to implement the Pact's equity commitments with insurers. We made a pact with them. But they don't carry out what we ask of them. Then I also think that politics should remind them that this is happening to our money, and that this is no longer acceptable. I shall be happy to pass that on to them through this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u68	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I think your last statement was certainly a very important one. For the record, I know you've done your best and do your best. The health insurance pact was certainly a good step. You also asked for analytical accounting, but the unwillingness is so great. So I'm curious to see if a lot of them will actually end up. Moreover, I also think that we should dare to go a little further. We must also dare to ask ourselves what role the sickness funds still have to play. Do they have to pass notes? Should they have the counsellors who have to carry out some of the controls, or can we not say clearly that they should be there for advice and guidance? Let us then make the funding all over again starting from a white sheet, rather than building on parameters that were already refuted thirty years ago. As far as Mr Marcort is concerned, I cannot help it either. If he doesn't give in, there's always another solution. We could agree that we'll just split the health care for the next governance agreement. He may continue to pursue his mischief, but he will have to pay for it himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u69	Madam Minister, I see that you were in a hurry to leave, but you will still have to hear my reply. I thank you, of course, for your comments. I had read the record of your speech in the Court of Auditors' report. You had made commitments – and I am very attentive to them – to ensure that all transparency was made in this matter. However, I will go a little further. I hope, therefore, that we in the Committee on Social Affairs will have the opportunity to discuss this issue very thoroughly and to see to what extent Members would not have a say in trying to solve this particularly alarming problem of transparency which affects these five Unions. It is possible that the latter may have different situations, but we will know from this parliamentary debate that I am asking for.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u70	Mr President, Minister, energy is becoming priceless for many Flemings. Energy is becoming priceless for more and more people in our society. A fifth of the Flemings flirt with the poverty line in the field of electricity. This week the press predicted that from this year onwards we will all have to pay EUR 90 to 100 more per year for electricity. That makes the situation even worse. I don't know if you know, but over the last ten years, prices have gone up: 114% more, a doubling of prices in Flanders. People can't pay their electricity bill anymore. A doubling of the price at ten years means 50 euros per month more that one has to pull out of his pockets. This is difficult when you earn only EUR 1 200, 1 300 or 1 400 per month. You deserve much more than that, Minister, but you must know that this is affecting people. In Belgium VAT has to be paid on electricity. There are several VAT rates in Belgium. There is the standard rate of 21% on products, including champagne and caviar, but excluding the basic products to which 6% applies. The VAT rate for water, for example, that we need, is 6 %. It is therefore unacceptable that electricity should be paid at 21% VAT in Belgium, as much as for champagne and caviar, whereas electricity is a basic product. After all, how can one live without electricity? It can't be. According to the State, a VAT rate of 6% on electricity would not be fiscally feasible and would require compensation. Let us see how much the electricity producers earn. ENGIE Electrabel made 1.4 billion euros of electricity for all Flemings in 2017. Mr Minister, my question is quite clear. If the VAT rate on electricity in Luxembourg, France and Great Britain is 6%, why can't it be done in Belgium? Explain that to the Flemish people.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u71	Mr Hedebouw, you are talking about the evolution of energy prices. I assume you are aware that this is not my first domain or my second. According to recent reports, there is indeed a clear increase in electricity prices, which has nothing to do with VAT. This increase has to do with what is happening in international markets, with CO2 certificates and with a few other things, but certainly not with VAT. Indeed, there has been a reduction in the VAT rate from 21% to 6% in the past. This reduction was introduced by the previous government at the end of 2013, and was intended to be a temporary measure, which would expire at the end of 2015. Together with some other interventions in the index basket, this measure was taken to prevent an excess of the central index. Several economists then called that an incognito index jump. In itself, given certain circumstances, there is nothing wrong with that. By the way, this government has done the same. But at least we have had the courage to name the measure as an index jump and to include accompanying measures. Despite the increase in electricity prices, all analyses, both by the National Bank, of the Federal Planning Office and international analyses, show that purchasing power is increasing. In 2018, purchasing power for a typical family increased by 1.8 %. This is a real increase, even after tax increases. Purchasing power increased by 6% throughout the legislature. Besides, there's the job creation. Never before have there been so many people at work. All these factors mean that there is a real increase in purchasing power today. Finally, in the European context, to which you referred at the end of your question, there are four of the 28 EU countries which will soon be 27 who will apply a reduced rate. It is therefore the exception rather than the rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u72	Mr President, I note that there is not much applause on the benches of the N-VA. I understand we're having a hard time following our own minister. Minister, you didn't even answer my question, which was very simple. I told you that electricity bills are going to increase from 90 to 100 euros this year. This is a special situation. In Belgium, we clearly have two rates of VAT. A rate of 21% for all products, including caviar and champagne, and a rate for basic products. It's good that it was invented precisely so that there would be a rate for products that people can't do without. For example, there is a 6% VAT rate on water. I asked you a very clear question: do you not think that electricity is a commodity and should be subject to a VAT rate of 6%? It's still a simple question. You tell me that it has already been taken into account in the incognito index jump. Go explain the incognito index jump to someone who has to pay another 50 euros a month to be able to pay his electricity bill. Minister, the question is very simple. A VAT rate of 6% has been set up in Belgium because some products are too important than for sugar to be added. One of the paradoxes is that the more electricity costs, the more money goes into your crates. That's the problem. The PTB conducted a campaign and collected 200,000 signatures to obtain this 6% VAT rate. We will continue this fight because it is socially right, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u73	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have been hearing the same song for months: we cannot close the nuclear power stations, because we have to keep control of the invoice, which we have to keep low, and otherwise we will get into the security of supply problems. Madam Secretary, your policy and your strategy are just failing on those two elements. Prices have already risen to over EUR 100 in recent years and will rise, as the Minister has just said. In addition, we will have a security of supply problem with the winter on the doorstep. Madam Minister, we have told you a thousand times: nuclear energy is energy from the past; nuclear energy is not reliable, as has been very clearly demonstrated in recent years, and it is very dangerous. However, the government and you will continue to support nuclear energy, Madam Secretary. This also increases the price of electricity, weird but true. You have a crushing responsibility for that. Let's take a brief look at the policy. Firstly, you have extended the life of nuclear power stations. Now they fall out one by one, there is a shortage and prices rise. Secondly, there is still uncertainty about the closure of nuclear power stations. A party in the government, not to mention Mr De Wever, recently stated that nuclear power stations will not be closed down, not even in 2024. This means that the alternatives on the market are not given a chance, that the market does not work and that the alternatives are not there and certainly will not be there in time. This creates a shortage and increases prices. Finally, you also recently need to reduce the strategic reserve so that supplies can be secured. Madam Minister, your nuclear power stations are not working, and you do not have a strategic reserve, which reduces the amount of energy available, which means that prices are rising again. Minister Van Overtveldt raised VAT. If that had been a temporary measure, he should not have adopted a new law to raise VAT again. It was absolutely not a temporary measure. However, the VAT on electricity was, quite rightly, reduced because it is a basic product. Therefore, that VAT should be 6% and not 21%. Madam Minister, how do you feel about Mr De Wever's statements that nuclear power stations will not be closed down? How are you doing with your energy pact? With that statement in mind, how will you finally bring the Energy Pact to a successful conclusion? Apparently, one partner wants to keep the power stations open. What will you do about security of supply? With the winter in front of the door, there is a real problem. Will you now finally implement the measure taken by the Socialists together with two of your coalition partners in the past, namely the reduction of VAT to 6%, so that the prices of electricity, with the winter ahead, do not pan out?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u74	Mrs Temmerman, your question presents and asks for one thing and its opposite, as usual. First of all, I would like to remind you that it is happy in this country that the power plants are properly maintained and scrupulously. In addition, the shutdowns of these plants have been planned. The only data we do not know at the moment, if we want to be precise and honest, is the outcome in the time of maintenance for one or the other of these plants. Secondly, we are experiencing a prelude to what will happen in 2022, 2023, 2025 in the context of the exit of nuclear power which we wanted through the Energy Pact supported by a majority in Parliament. It is obvious that as soon as nuclear power plants are brought into the mix, prices fall. This is what happened during the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, since these plants are amortized. As soon as they come out of the production of electrical energy, the prices automatically increase. Prices are also rising because of the ETS (Emission Trading Scheme) market, which has increased its standards, and because of the rising price of coal. The production of electricity by coal in the Netherlands, which is coming through interconnection in our country, means that the price of electricity has increased. We need electricity and we have to get it where it is produced. We must be consistent. From the moment when we want to get out of nuclear power, when we are afraid of nuclear power and when we are making an energy pact, we must take the necessary measures. That's what we did. A bill will soon arrive in Parliament, and I have already introduced it to Commissioner Vestager. This bill concerns a capacity compensation mechanism that will allow the construction of gas-fired power plants in our territory. Of course, these will be new facilities, which will cost the consumer and increase his bill. The energy transition, I have never hidden it, will cost the consumer. With regard to the strategic reserve, from the moment we are giving the impetus through the Energy Pact for gas-fired power plants to return to the market, the power of these gas-fired power plants will provide the added power we need – a supplement verified by Elia on a day-to-day basis. Elia tells me that we no longer need a strategic reserve. This is important for the consumer, because a strategic reserve is a non-market, a reserved perimeter of shutdown gas plants that costs the consumer. I therefore do not see why we should complain today that these plants which have returned to the market are no longer going to cost the consumer! That is what the current situation means.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u75	Madam Minister, as always, you deny reality and, as always, you do not answer the questions. Two of the seven plants are still operating and yet you continue to say that it was a good decision to extend the life of the nuclear power plants. That's unbelievable. What's worse is, who pays for that? That is the ordinary consumer. (Protests from Minister Marghem) But you're in the government together, aren't you? You don't think you need to answer that. Madam Secretary, it is not a European problem. It is because of your failing electricity and energy policy that there is a great energy poverty in our country and it is the ordinary consumer who will pay it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u76	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the site of the Abbey of La Cambre in Brussels is in danger. This magnificent site, a veritable green lung in the heart of the capital, connects the ponds of Ixelles to the wood of the Cambre and is composed of several very old buildings, dating back centuries, of very high heritage value. They are surrounded by beautiful gardens. The whole is classified to the heritage of the Brussels Region. Moreover, our fellow citizens come from the four corners of Brussels and even Belgium to take advantage of this very exceptional place, to spend time together, to live moments of conviviality, but also to enjoy the infrastructures and buildings, such as the school of the Cambre or other premises used by Scout troops. As you know, Minister, part of these buildings is also occupied by the National Geographical Institute (IGN) on which you have the supervision through the Department of Defense. As you announced, the IGN will move, in the first half of 2019, to the buildings of the Royal Military School in Brussels, with its 190 workers. As a result, you have confirmed that the space in the heart of the Abbey of La Cambre, where the IGN is now located, will be the subject of a sales process that will begin or has already done so, without any other form of precision. Minister, we are particularly concerned about this resale process. Indeed, for us, it is truly unthinkable that such a jewel of our heritage can be the subject of a project tomorrow, whether it be speculation or real estate investment, without any consultation with all public actors. Here are my questions in this regard. What is the status of the process of selling the land and the spaces occupied by the IGN today? What's the calendar? Has this sales process been the subject of consultation with the other public actors involved? I am thinking in particular of the Brussels Region, the municipality of Ixelles, the municipality of Brussels-ville. All public actors must be involved. Finally, the press announced this summer that some candidates wishing to buy the plot had already made themselves known. Is that true? What types of candidates have emerged so far? In which industry are they active?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u77	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, at present, the Defence actually owns about two thirds of the land in the Abbey of La Cambre. The other owners are the Brussels-Capital Region for the park and the French Community for the arts school. The church which is in the part of the Defense is given in concession to the church factory. The IGN will move to the Renaissance campus in mid-2019. In accordance with the sale procedure, Defence is preparing a file to transfer the domain to the FPS Finance Acquisition Committee. FPS Finance determines the value of the land and is responsible for the sale. In the meantime, the Defence requested an estimate of the value of the property. We are aware of some candidates. The French Community, among others, is interested. I think you have pretty close connections. It would therefore be interesting to look at this side a little.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u78	Minister, thank you for this extremely short answer. I also asked you about the state of play of the consultation process. It is unthinkable to give or sell such a jewel of our heritage without consulting the Region, the municipalities or other public institutions. It's fundamental. We must be able to imagine what will be set up tomorrow in this field, whether it be a school, a museum, etc. We really need to co-build this project in the heart of the abbey of La Cambre. It's fundamental and it's our demand. That other public actors – you mentioned the French Community, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation – are interested, is a good thing. But it must be done in concert. Our fear is that actors who have other intentions (promotion, real estate speculation, etc.) take over this land. It seems to make you smile, Minister. But, sincerely, it is a heritage gem and a green lung of our capital. I really hope that the public actors will be concerted to carry out a real project co-built together for the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u79	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u80	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u81	Vincent Scourneau, Benoît Friart, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Emmanuel Burton, Gilles Foret, Isabelle Galant, Stéphanie Thoron, David Clarinval, Olivier Chastel.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u82	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3174/3) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3174/3) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u83	Colleagues, the present motion for a resolution on BE-Alert concerns a system for mass reporting to the population, in order to report and optimise the disappearance of minors. The main petitioner underlined that the authors of the motion for a resolution wanted BE-Alert, the mass reporting system for the population, to also be used in cases of worrying disappearances of minors. Reference was made to a system that exists in France, called alert enlèvement, where the population is widely informed when a child has been abducted. This system has proven its robustness and soundness on several occasions. The French system is based on the AMBER Alert system, which comes from the United States. In the French system, warning messages can be distributed through all kinds of channels and in crucial places. Child Focus was contacted, which provided a comprehensive opinion. The proposal for a resolution also seeks to ask the government to extend the scope of Article 106/1 of the Act of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications, in consultation with Child Focus, the Missing Persons Cell and the Magistrate. In the discussion Mrs Monica De Coninck showed understanding, but at the same time she warned against frequent use of the tool. It is currently used only for very serious cases. The public is aware of this. It doesn't seem right to have that tool, which was created to notify in case of major disasters, coincide with the coverage of worrying disappearances. Mr Thiébaut supported the proposal's objective, but wondered how they would achieve it. Mrs Heeren shared Mrs De Coninck's concern. The system is designed to be used in the most exceptional situations. That concept must be monitored at all times. Mrs Poncelet pointed out that the motion for a resolution is interesting, but raises two important questions. BE-Alert works by text messages, in other words text messages. In the event of disappearance, however, only photographs of disappeared persons have real added value. She wondered what technical means could be considered to address this problem. On the other hand, it seemed necessary to use BE-Alert only in the disappearance of children. Mr Van Hecke noted that the proposal for a resolution referred to the French system. There are five conditions for reporting, including the fact that it must be about the disappearance of a minor. This shows that it cannot or should not be the intention to use the tool for disappearances from psychiatric institutions or residential care centres. In addition, the speaker agreed with the observation that BE-Alert is working on the basis of text messages. Will it be technically possible to send a picture of the missing child? This could be a decisive added value of the message. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu pointed out that the motion for a resolution made clear that, in consultation with Child Focus, with the Missing Persons Cell and with the Magistrate, the operational use of the alarm system would be determined. Mr Brecht Vermeulen said that any effort leading to the resolution of worrying disappearances of minors deserves full support. The proposal for a resolution also refers to the measures in France and the United States. There may be other best practices to be found. BE-Alert owes his success to his announcement by the local authorities to their residents. Their support will help to maximise coverage. It is true that the system is currently sending only text messages. However, technology does not stand still. Consequently, it is not unthinkable that, over time, mms of messages, i.e. with photos, can also be sent. It is also a motion for a resolution. This does not contain detailed or ready-to-use answers, but should in this case require the government to take the necessary technical measures to deal with the problems identified. The legislative initiative explicitly refers only to minors. So it's not about psychiatric patients or seniors. In addition, it is explicitly requested that the government develop the measure in cooperation with Child Focus and the Magistrate. According to the principal applicant, it is particularly important to ask whether we want to allow more information to be used in the case of the disappearance of a child. According to him, everyone will agree and everyone will agree that information should be disseminated as soon as possible in order to find a missing child. Although there is consensus on the starting point, a number of legal and technical issues certainly still need to be examined. The authors of this proposal therefore ask the government to examine this matter. The government can rely on and be inspired by foreign experiments that have been successfully completed. For the rest, nothing can prevent BE-Alert from referring, as in France, to websites with photos and information that make it possible to identify minors. The sooner the information is shared, the greater the chance of finding the child. In addition, the applicant reiterates that in the early stages of the debate, contact was made with Child Focus, which was very pleased with the initiative for this proposal of resolution. The motion for a resolution was adopted in committee with 16 votes in favour and one abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is obviously a great honour to present to you, on behalf of my group, the first resolution of this new parliamentary meeting. This is an important and sensitive resolution because it concerns missing children. As the rapporteur pointed out in his detailed work, it was the procedures set up abroad that attracted attention, particularly in the United States, in the early 1990s, when a disappearance had upset Texas. It was Amber Hagerman's disappearance. Immediately, some wanted to disseminate information very widely in order to find the child. Among the means and procedures used, an emergency alert system made it possible to disseminate widely information about the missing person in order to raise awareness of possible witnesses who could have reported important information. This has made it possible to find children. The system is powered since it is a wireless system, a wireless emergency alert system, close to the SMS method, which has been developed. Several countries paying attention to these procedures have obviously copied these systems, with Canada in mind and France with its Alert Abduction system, which deploys broad means to disseminate cross-sectional information in cases of child disappearances. Last year, our attention was drawn to the success of this French system. Indeed, the missing child last year was found quickly. It is a very wide and relevant device that you will surely have noticed by browsing the motorways or consulting their media since it mobilizes news agencies, televisions, radios, the road network, etc. We found that something had existed in Belgium since 1998, at the initiative of Child Focus, which mainly targets minors and runaways. Nevertheless, a Child Alert platform has been set up to alert, but under more restrictive conditions, the population when a child disappears. Six conditions must be met in order to operate this platform: the disappearance must concern a minor of age; it must be a minor of age in danger of death; the child is in Belgian territory; there must be sufficient information concerning his or her identity; a magistrate - this type of action must be carried out under the authority of the judiciary - considers that the measures must be taken; the triggering of such action cannot, of course, cause any additional risk to the child. In short, these are conditions that we understand very well and which must be scrupulously respected. Since this system was set up and activated, the results have indeed been up to date. We are fortunate to have a technological but also legal breakthrough on this subject, on this fact to prevent in a broad way, particularly through BE-Alert. The legal system allows us to think about it in detail. The Chamber recently adopted article 106/1 of the Act of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications, which contributes to the implementation of the mass notification system of the population named Alert-SMS. Clearly, you will understand, it is the BE-Alert system that everyone knows today and that was tested very little time ago, with great efficiency. The spirit, ladies and gentlemen, you understand, is to take advantage of this new technology. The authors of this resolution therefore propose, through the above article, that this new technology could be used in the context of disappearances of minors. The resolution is quite simple. It is structured through four requests to the Government: to broaden the scope of Article 106/1 of the Act of 13 June 2005; to define, in consultation with Child Focus, the Missing Persons Unit and the judiciary, the conditions for the use of the system in cases of disappearance of children; to maintain the assistance provided by the Belgian State to Child Focus and to make this new tool available to the citizen in a completely free way; and to consider cooperation agreements with the border countries of Belgium in order to improve the performance of this system in cases of abduction in border areas. I imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that you will all be sensitive to this motion for a resolution which can of course only serve the interests of justice and enable a missing child to be found quickly. Indeed, if one wants to save the missing child, it is obviously time that plays in his favor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, BE-Alert is an umbrella name for an alert platform consisting of several channels, namely voice messages, text messages and e-mail, based on citizens' registrations and an alert message channel based on presence in a given zone. So it's not just about texting, as we first thought. It's about a whole of different channels. So we were wrong about the discussion in committee. At the beginning of April there were about 314 500 citizens registered on BE-Alert. Now there would be about 420 000. However, they are not well distributed. Many municipalities in Brussels and Wallonia are not participating or are not yet participating. More than 70% of registered citizens live in the Flemish Region. So there is still some work to be done to roll out the system throughout the Belgian territory. The crisis centre shall ensure coordination and support. BE-Alert's original vision was that it should be able to warn the population of serious threats of danger or of disasters. The policy-makers of the crisis centre and some colleagues rightly pointed out in committee that the extension of the objective should not result in the original function becoming ineffective or ineffective. That is why there was an understandable reluctance on the part of a number of colleagues. There are a number of pluses, of course, otherwise we would not have approved the proposal in committee. We refer to international examples, where the system, although in a different way, works well. The American House of Representatives adopted a resolution on this issue in October 2000, after which Amber Alert was introduced. Canada then followed in 2002, Australia in 2005 and also 20 European countries, including France, to which both the proposed resolution and the explanatory memorandum referred. The specific aspect of the text is that we are asking for an alarming disappearance of a child to be reported via the BE-Alert channel. For us, this means that we must be able to use all the useful instruments to combat worrying disappearances. Our group, of course, supported the motion for a resolution because we want to solve worrying disappearances of minors as quickly as possible. The text was adopted by a very broad majority: 16 votes in favour and 1 abstention. However, we are aware that a number of things still need to be worked out technically. These aspects have not yet been fully clarified in the text. We discussed the approach of the author, Mr Scourneau, who asked that the government should be able to develop them further. We support that, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u86	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u87	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u88	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Laaouej and Mr Piedboeuf and Mrs Smaers, rapporteurs, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u89	Mr. Speaker, ladies and gentlemen, Mr.Minister, this bill is in the image of your government: it serves justice and attacks litigants to compensate for tax cuts in favour of the richest. Rarely, if ever, a government has done so much to limit access to justice. A first attempt to increase censored registry fees, the moderator ticket for pro deo, VAT on this same moderator ticket, a contribution to the fund for legal aid, the abolition of justices of peace, the removal of multiple remedies... Is the cup full? Apparently not, since the government has decided to come back to the charge to increase the fees, worth it. It has been said and repeated: asserting his rights before a court is as much an individual fundamental right as an essential condition for the existence of a democratic society. When we weaken the rights of litigants, it is our entire democracy that suffers the consequences. The principle of equality is only a meaningless concept if every citizen is not able to assert his or her rights before a judge. However, Minister, in going so far as to double registry fees, the government is imposing an unacceptable and unbearable new barrier between the citizen and the judge. Once again, this majority is moving forward without listening to sirens and warnings. The Conseil d'État and the Conseil supérieur de la Justice, usually rather prudent institutions, did not go there by four paths, since for them too, the increase in the costs of justice is not justifiable. This government should, however, learn to listen. At the beginning of the summer, the Constitutional Court added its grain of salt to the debate by rejecting the principle of the user ticket for access to the pro deo by a stinging judgment. She strongly recalled that the right of access to the judge is not an abstract and meaningless thing. The reading of the judgment is particularly interesting. The Court denounces the lie that was the premise of the "moderator ticket" law: the poor would abuse legal remedies. This is completely unacceptable. I have heard several times the Minister of Justice say in committee that we must be responsible. To be responsible is to "respond to". In this case, it is the poor who must be responsible, since the rich will be able to continue to have access to good lawyers to defend themselves in court. It is precisely this motivation of the bill that we are dealing with today, since the government is precisely trying to deter the justiciable – and not just any – from appealing. It is the poor as well as part of the middle class that will be even more excluded from a right that will, on the other hand, remain entirely accessible to the wealthy. As a result, the MR-N-VA majority is sinking into its logic of two-speed justice. The amendments it has tabled do not change anything at all to the issue of access to justice. To claim that all criticisms are answered by charging the costs of justice by the party who has lost his trial is, no more or less, a process of mystification. Such a speech does not stand up to the test of fact or to the test of law, for before bringing legal action, ministers, every justiciable obviously evaluates the risk of what he will have to pay. As long as justice and judges are independent, there will be no guarantee of the outcome of a trial. As a result, when the government increases registry fees, it further increases the reasons for not asserting its rights. This simple fact constitutes a legal reality confirmed by the highest courts. Contrary to what the Minister of Justice in committee claimed, in order to assess the right of access to the judge, all costs relating to the procedure must be taken into account, whether they are involved before or after the trial. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we are beginning to forget the laws of this government that have been annulled by the Constitutional Court because they violate the rights of litigants. Disrespect for citizens and institutions must stop. You will not be surprised, therefore, that my group will vote against this bill, which is unfair and violates fundamental rights. Indeed, preventing access to the judge is tantamount to resigning and accepting the law of the strongest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u90	Mr President, Minister, it is yet another sad day for access to justice for all. The Council of State and the Supreme Court of Justice, two not to be underestimated bodies, criticized the initial draft as follows. The Supreme Court of Justice said: "It is acceptable that a reasonable contribution should be requested from the seeker. However, the contribution requested at present is already reasonable, and the reasons for an additional increase are unacceptable. The increase does not make the contribution even more reasonable. The objectives of achieving the budgetary objectives and dissuading the profession are difficult to reconcile. They affect the principle of access to justice without being a valid justification for it." The Council of State said: "Such an increase in role rights means limiting the right of access to justice." With the new amendments you have retained the same high amounts, but only the moment of collection changed to the end of the procedure. That would solve the problem. However, nothing is less true. We continue to have the following reservations. First, the amount of the amount. It is clear, however, that it is the amount of sums which, according to the Supreme Court of Justice and the Council of State, is a problem for the right of access to justice, but not for the moment of collection. So, the initially very justified criticism of the Council of State and of the Supreme Court of Justice remains, also with what is now before us. If this law is passed today, we can wait until we can go to the Constitutional Court. Furthermore, Minister, you cannot deny that the level is limiting the right of access to justice. On the one hand, on page 9 of the original draft, you state that the increase in role rights, even in conjunction with VAT on lawyers' fees and contributions to the second-line assistance fund, does not constitute a real obstacle to access to justice. On the other hand, on page 19 of the regulatory impact analysis, you point out that the draft has a negative impact on the fight against poverty and on equal opportunities and that the increase in role rights is detrimental to access to justice by the less wealthy. I have a second thought about moving the moment of collection to the end of the procedure. Apart from the fact that moving the moment of collection is not the problem, this relocation in itself raises new problems. Whether those higher rights should be paid at the beginning or at the end of the case does not matter much. In any case, the increase means that people will think twice before they will ever go to court, because in the procedure they never know in advance whether they will win or lose. Furthermore, the courts of appeal are not at all a requesting party to this system. The opening chamber in appeal will just turn square. It will be a blur of things that are registered in the role, but will be put on hold, with endless discussions and a very large administrative burden. Now it's simple: a case only comes to play once the role rights are paid. These role rights are paid because people benefit from legal aid or, if they do not enjoy them, the costs are advanced by the lawyer, who will then charge them to his client. Changing the time of collection also raises a problem for the people who are eligible for legal aid today. In order to initiate proceedings, they must first present today an application for legal aid, which is sometimes dealt with with with urgency. Only when granted can they initiate proceedings free of charge. It will now be possible to apply for legal aid only at the end of the procedure. However, if one is faced with a final judgment in which one is unsuccessful, to whom should one address to apply for legal aid? At that time, legal aid can no longer be applied for at first instance, because that procedure is completely exhausted. They will then appeal, and in the opening chamber they will be told that the appeal will be suspended because the role rights at first instance have not been paid. They will then again request legal aid for this, but the Court of Appeal does not have the power to grant legal aid for the proceedings at first instance. Those people fall between two chairs. Moreover, the actual objective of the present draft, in particular the budgetary decision to save EUR 20 million, will not be achieved. The change in the timing of collection actually makes it possible to apply the tactics of collecting the penalty fines, namely to recover the amount after a negative decision has been taken. The willingness to pay is already low. Previous reports from the Court of Auditors have shown that only 50% of the penalty fines are effectively collected. From what used to be a certain source of income, you have now made an uncertain source of income. The amendments have certainly not improved the original proposal, on which I was very critical last year, quite the contrary. We stand by our view that the increase in role rights really cannot be achieved. Once again, the costs of justice are passed on to the weakest in our society. It is a very sad day for justice for everyone in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u91	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have often discussed the text before us in the Finance Committee and also in plenary. Even though the text has come a very long way, it is and remains a very serious problem. I can only endorse the list of problems of access to justice as a result of the text by previous speakers. It is really incomprehensible that the government, the majority, despite all the opinions of the Council of State and the Supreme Court of Justice, should be stubborn and put to the vote. Moreover, the text did not improve during the examination, quite the contrary. Mr Minister, you thought that by transferring the collection of registry fees to the end of a procedure or case in progress, the problem of access to justice would be solved. However, that is absolutely not the case. I don't know how long it's been since you had another client before you who asked you for advice to start a procedure. I am not talking about multinationals, because they have enough money to sue, but about the man or woman who has a family problem or a rental problem. Such clients ask what the odds are and how much a process can cost. The lawyer will then have to explain what it will mean, if the client wins the case, but above all what costs there will be for him if he loses the case, such as the lawyer's fee with VAT, legal fees, role rights and any costs for expertise. It is on the basis of that information that the seeker weighs whether or not he or she will initiate a procedure. Whether the right to roll, which is sometimes increased by 50%, should be paid at the beginning or at the end of the journey, makes no difference to many of those seeking justice. After all, they make their accounts. When a case concerns a value of EUR 500 but can cost EUR 1 000, the judge may decide not to take the risk. It is a pity that, despite all the opinions and clear warnings from the Council of State, the majority continues to uphold a fundamental fundamental right of access to justice. It is unfortunate that, despite the fact that the Constitutional Court also destroyed another government proposal before the summer, it is continuing to do so just because of the violation of Article 23 of the Constitution on the right of access to justice. Minister, you are really challenging the Constitutional Court. How many times has the Constitutional Court destroyed provisions of your potpourri laws? You actually challenge it and ask it to do it again. You challenge the court. Why do you do that? I really didn't expect that from you. I thought you would read and take into account the opinions of the Council of State and the judgments of the Constitutional Court. Nevertheless, you continue stubbornly. Minister, I fear that the majority will do what it will do and that the last word will therefore be in the Constitutional Court. There is not only the principle aspect. You and your colleague have worked out something new, namely that it is no longer necessary to pay at the Registry, but at the end of the journey. The FPS Finance has an important role to play in this. The FPS Finance will have to go after the judge to collect the payments due. Minister, what are the FPS Justice collection rates for the collection of penalty fines? Is that 1 %? Was there not in September 2018 the speech of the Advocate General in Antwerp, former cabinet member of one of your predecessors, who put forward a sad percentage? However, everything will now have to be recovered by this route. Your intention is to raise 20 million euros more. However, the result will be that you will bring in millions and tens of millions of euro less, that incredibly many FPS Finance officials will have to deal with these collections and constantly have to engage in dialogue and communication with the clerks, to inform them that they have been paid and that they may be called upon to do so or to ask them to wait a little longer because they have not yet been paid. You don't already have any surplus officials in the FPS Treasury. You also want to burden them with that. That means an administrative disaster for the FPS Finance and for the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u92	Ministers, if one day we take stock of the majority – and we will necessarily do so on a series of matters – then justice and what you have asked of the litigants throughout these five years will certainly be a subject to be taken as an example. It will have to be shown to the public and to the exegetes to explain the sometimes incomprehensible stubbornness that is yours. This is an extraordinary situation. Since the beginning of the discussions on this text, you have been told that you will "break your face". Everyone said this: the Council of State, the Supreme Council of Justice, the opposition in the Finance and Justice Committees. You continued to say that you were certain of yourself, that you were going to go on and that you were going to go on. The law dates back to 2015. We are at the end of 2018. You wanted to carry out a great and great budgetary operation, to bring money into the state coffers, and not even to finance the justice system that needed it, but to replenish the general budget of the state. Three years later, we're still waiting for the first sounding and tripping species that will fall into your tape. I think you'll wait a long time, because the way you tell us things will lead us straight into the wall. Stefaan Van Hecke just mentioned it. He "thinked that" but I am quite certain: you will still have an appeal to the Constitutional Court and we will meet again, we or others, to discuss this text again. What did you actually want? You wanted to introduce registry fees that are established and calculated on the basis of the size of the dispute, as if, by means of a mathematical assessment, a magistrate would spend more time discussing a file of 10 million than on a neighbourhood disorder. It's deceiving yourself! If an invoice is drawn up for 10 million euros and is undisputed, it does not take a very long time to decide the dispute in case of non-payment. A problem related to a neighbourhood disorder may take much longer. Despite all the advice you received, despite all the flashing signals on your way, you persevered and, today, you had to review your copy. You tried to see her again for the first time, but you didn't have to convince her. Today, you want to try to avoid what the Constitutional Court tells you. The objective pursued with the proposed text has not been achieved. In any case, there is no proportionality, in particular because you are claiming these costs at the start of the procedure. Before he comes to court, you require the taxpayer to pay the amount of the registry fee based on the size of the dispute. There, you are reviewed by the Constitutional Court and, today, as a prestidigitator, you are emerging from your hat a new theory: rather than asking for the payment of registry fees at the beginning of the procedure, it will be asked at the end. It will be put in the costs of justice, in the costs of procedure. Thus, this will not be a complete barrier to access to justice. We don't have to pay right now. It's only after. On the limit, I would say it's more hypocritical because we wait until the debates are over to send the bill. In itself, it is not very interesting or wise. On the other hand, you have not fundamentally changed the text that has only one single purpose. It's about increasing registry fees to get money into the state budget. You set aside the fundamental objective – perhaps not the one that the Minister of Finance has in mind but that the Minister of Justice should have in mind – that of access to justice. I remind this rostrum – this is not the first time and it will probably not be the last – that this is a constitutional right that must be guaranteed. We cannot therefore put undue brakes on it, particularly on the financial side. Mr. Minister of Justice, should I remind you that this increase that you are proposing again in the level of registry fees is in addition to a whole series of inflations in the costs of justice (the repeatability of legal fees, procedural allowances, VAT on fees, the financing of legal aid and, no doubt, tomorrow also the fund for victims of intentional acts of violence)? Each time, we are told that these are small amounts, that they are not a big effort. It is not a big effort, but when we add up, it is an ever-increasing overhead and an obstacle to this access to justice that we should instead advocate. Behind all this, you also have a purely statistical interest which is to make people think before they bring their dispute before a magistrate because, at the end of the procedure, they risk finding themselves with a heavy financial burden. Ministers, that is not how we will restore confidence to the citizens in the institution of justice. It is not like this either that we will allow justice to function better. On the contrary, this government has been pursuing a fiscal and financial vision for almost five years. It is to despair, it becomes pathetic. You will have understood that the cdH group will certainly not follow you in this new adventure, o so unconsidered.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u93	Mr. Speaker, my colleagues from the opposition parties have pointed out very well what also justifies ours in this bill. Mr Minister, you have decided to favour a primarily budgetary approach to access to justice. The Constitutional Court had not failed to recall that, in determining, inter alia, the amount of rights of appointment, it was necessary to take into account the full financial burden of initiating judicial proceedings and to consider whether it had become an obstacle to access to justice. Since the current government has taken on its responsibilities, it must be recognized that access to justice has been hampered by several measures that ultimately - because you may be driven by this idea that litigants would seize courts and tribunals too quickly - to give them the signal that recourse to justice must be discouraged. It should be recalled, even if it is a question of the application of European measures, that a VAT of 21 % has been imposed on the fees of lawyers and other providers of justice, but that you have also taken the initiative of substantially increasing the rights of placing on the job - as your draft law confirms -, of increasing the procedural allowance, if any, due, or of imposing a moderator's ticket to contribute to the Fund of aid under the second line. By the way, this last measure has also been censored by the Constitutional Court. In short, there is no doubt that you and your government are weakening access to justice and what it must mean for a person who has no opportunity to finance a proceeding, because he is only an ordinary citizen who cannot seek sound legal advice and must rely on justice to uphold his rights and interests. Undoubtedly, this citizen is weakened with regard to access to justice. Is it worth reminding you that you are advocating in this bill to increase the amount of pay-in-the-role fees? For the justice of the peace and the police court, these rights increase from 40 to 50 euros; from 100 to 165 euros before the court of first instance and the commercial court; from 210 to 400 euros before the court of appeal - this is part of your philosophy of dissuadeing the use of the appeal while the full exercise of a right to justice obviously includes the degree of appeal - and from 375 to 650 euros before the Court of Cassation. All of this, from a purely budgetary point of view. It is not by chance that your bill was discussed in the Finance Committee rather than in the Justice Committee, which would have been more traditional in the conduct of our parliamentary debates in the light of the issues underlying the increase in these rights of appointment. In this debate, there are two competing views: that of a government and its majority who intend to restrict the right to justice and that of those who want to preserve the conditions for access to justice on a balanced basis, without undue financial obstacles. We made our choice. We are not in your side, but in that of those who still believe that access to justice is the foundation of the citizen's confidence in the institutions of a state. The more this trust is restricted, the more reason is given to those who believe that the state does not ultimately protect them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u94	The Minister of Finance, the Minister of Justice, can be said of your bill as one more brick in the construction of class justice. By increasing registry fees, the government further reduces access to justice. For large companies or the most wealthy people, this will not be an obstacle to legal proceedings, but for the ordinary citizen, it weighs all the more as it is added to the other legal costs (lawyer fees, procedural allowances, bailiff's fees, etc.).). I will not go back to the amounts just mentioned by Mr Maingain, but note that on appeal, for example, the right of registry virtually doubles. A person who has to file successive appeals has his or her bill increased. Registry fees at different levels of justice are added. In addition, reduced tariffs are abolished. Where the government is really strong, it's when it says it's to fight over-consumption. It's known! I, in my neighborhood, when the neighbors get bored, when the bowling alley is closed, they say, "What are we going to do? If we were to sue the old lady at the top of the street, it might be fun." No, seriously, ministers, in fact, the opposite is true. It is the opposite of an over-consumption that we are witnessing, as the justice platform for all deplores, which states, I quote: "These insignificant amounts to the federal budget are real obstacles for the exchanges of many potential litigants". This project will have a negative impact on the fight against poverty. It will have a negative impact on equal opportunities and social cohesion. I'm not saying it. You, the minister, write it in the impact assessment accompanying each bill: "Fight against poverty. What impact? No impact. Positive impact. Negative impact". You check "negative impact". You have to recognize him. So we have a government that is taking a step that will officially increase poverty. Congratulations! And this increase is in addition to a number of other measures that, in recent years, have already reduced access to justice. I am thinking of the 15% increase in registry fees that had already taken place in 2012, the introduction of VAT on lawyers' fees, the repeatability of lawyers' fees and fees, and the funding fund for legal aid. Perhaps tomorrow it will be necessary to pay a ceiling fee in order to be tried in a courtroom where the ceiling has not collapsed, as happened recently at the Brussels courthouse. In short, for ordinary people, justice is increasingly expensive, but at the same time, paradoxically, it is a justice with less and less resources and less staff, a more and more slow justice, a justice in ruins; to the point that the government feels obliged to create, alongside the justice for the ploucs, a luxury court for multinationals, the Brussels International Business Court. Class justice has never been so much a reality in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u95	Thank you, Mr. Van Hees. Mrs Pas has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u96	Minister, I just heard Mr Van Hecke say: 'I hate to say it, but this is not a good law', at least if I quote him correctly. Well, I hate to say it, but I have to agree with Mr Van Hecke. We will even approve his amendments to this bill. Like many of the measures you have taken, Minister, the increase in role rights is simply a way of serving up the cash. It amounts to a tax increase. Even people on the ground say that this measure will not stop anyone from bringing proceedings. So we too will certainly vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u97	Mr President, it is, of course, always easy to speak in slogans. It is not right to say that justice is slower than ever. The backlog is much smaller in most courts and tribunals than in the last legislature. And output became more important than input. It is true that we do not encourage the call too much. I think everyone thought it was a good thing to say that the appeal, in civil matters, was no longer suspensive. Here, we are implementing the government agreement. This point was included in the government agreement. Mr Brotcorne, the pathetic makes a beautiful symphony, but it is not our type to leave unfinished agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u98	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u99	Using simplisms, Mr. Brotcorne, is very easy! Let me talk! The Constitutional Court has cancelled because we have adapted the right of registry to the amount requested. The government hoped that, in this way, it could be said that the rich paid more than the poor. It is true that the amounts increase, but if you compare with the foreigner you will see that the comparison is in our favor. The point of this law – and I believe that the bars are unanimous on this – is that the perception will be made at the end of the procedure. The opposition claims that, in this way, we are killing the budget. You show that what you say is not only pathetic, but also empathetic. Thank you! Moreover, labour and tax law will no longer be subject to the right of registry, whereas the law has been annulled. It deserves to be recalled. Finally, much has been said about VAT. The Minister of Finance decided, in the end and rightly so, that the zero rate would apply to pro deo. It's not that bad! In addition, the value of the point is 75 euros. I haven't heard many lawyers complain about it. I'd ask you to have a little more nuanced view. We are implementing the government agreement, the bible of any government. What we are proposing is very reasonable. I hope that this will not be cancelled in a second phase. I hope we win. I think it's a good law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u100	Mr. Chairman, Minister, once again, you are trying to get us to swallow snakes. Your justifications are more than surprising. You say that there is no problem with access to justice as the value of the point has increased to 75 euros. However, this has nothing to do with the increase in registry fees. We agree. It is a choice of fiscal policy. It is a tax at the entrance, simply on the backs of the poorest. You claim that the amount was increased to make the rich pay. It doesn't matter if the rich pay. It is a tax on the backs of the middle class and the poorest that limits access to justice. You can laugh, Minister! But I'm not saying it, it's the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u101	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u102	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u103	Mr President, I appreciate the dynamism of the Minister of Justice in responding to our comments on this issue. I did not hear the Minister of Finance, when we are in the middle of a purely fiscal and fiscal issue. The Minister of Justice comes to defend an increase in rights that will restrict access to justice, and from which he will not even profit since these sums will go into the funds of the general budget of the State. They will not even be assigned to his department, and it is he who comes to defend the measure, not the Minister of Finance!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u104	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u105	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2569/15) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2569/15) The draft law has 29 articles. The bill has 29 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u106	Annex V.Part • 32 years old Stefaan Van Hecke cs (2569/16) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u107	Held: the vote on the amendment and Article 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u108	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 and 3 to 29.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u109	******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u110	On 21 July, Cecile Boeraeve-Derycke, a former member of the Chamber of Representatives, died in Poperinge, at the age of 90. Cecile Derycke was a member of the CVP-Kamer in the arrondissement of Ypres from April 1977 to December 1978 and from November 1981 to December 1987. From 1977 to 2000 she was a city council member in Poperinge. In the name of the Chamber of Representatives, I have offered my sincere condolences to her son and his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u111	Jean Barzin, a former member of the House of Representatives, died on 13 September in Namur, at the age of 71. Jean Barzin sat in the Chamber on the benches of the PRL for the district of Namur from November 1981 to October 1985, and from May 1995 to June 1999. He was also a member of the Senate from December 1987 to April 1995. From 1976 to 1999, Jean Barzin was a communal councillor in Namur. On behalf of the House of Representatives, I presented my sincere condolences to his daughter, our former colleague Anne Barzin, and to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u112	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 5 July 2018, a call for candidates for the mandate of councillor to the French Chamber of the Court of Auditors was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 19 July 2018. In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 5 July 2018, an appeal to the candidates was published in the Belgian Moniteur of 19 July 2018 for the mandate of adviser to the French Chamber of the Court of Auditors. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr Alain Bolly, Registrar of the Court of Auditors; - Ms Danielle Caron, Investment Manager at Finance.Brussels; - Mr Elie Doyez, Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mrs Fabienne Görrler, First Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Dominique Guide, auditor at the Court of Auditors seconded as an expert to the policy cell of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs; - Mr Olivier Hubert, Deputy Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Laurent Jans, First Auditor at the Council of State; - Mr Christophe Leguier, first accountant of the P Committee; - Mr Cédric Libert, Deputy Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Pol Louis, First Auditor-Director at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Harry Poznantek, First Auditor-Director at the Court of Auditors; - Ms Pascale Stenne, First Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mrs Florence Thys, Inspector for Finance (in the French Community); - Mr Eric Vansteenkiste, auditor at the Court of Auditors. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr Alain Bolly, Registrar of the Court of Auditors; - Ms Danielle Caron, Investment Manager at Finance.Brussels; - Mr Elie Doyez, Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Ms Fabienne Görrler, first auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Dominique Guide, Auditor at the Court of Auditors, seconded as an expert to the strategic unit of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs; - Mr Olivier Hubert, Deputy Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr. Laurent Jans, first auditor at the Council of State; - Mr. Christophe Legulier, Senior Accountant of the P Committee; - Mr Cédric Libert, Deputy Auditor of the Court of Auditors; - Mr Pol Louis, first auditor-director at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Harry Poznantek, first auditor-director at the Court of Auditors; - Mrs Pascale Stenne, first auditor-reviser at the Court of Auditors; - Ms. Florence Thys, Inspector of Finance (with the French Community); - Mr Eric Vansteenkiste, auditor at the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 September 2018, the curriculum vitae of candidates will be delivered to the political groups. The candidates will be heard by the Rekenhof sub-committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 September 2018, the curriculum vitae of the candidates will be forwarded to the political groups. The Sub-Committee on the Court of Auditors will hold a hearing with the candidates. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u113	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 28 June 2018, a fourth call to candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 19 July 2018 for the mandate of second alternate of the French-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services. In accordance with the decision of the June 28, 2018 plenary session, a fourth call for candidates was published in the Moniteur belge of July 19, 2018 for the term of second alternate member of the French-speaking member of the Standing Committee for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. The following application was submitted: - Mr Michel Croquet, Adviser to the Cabinet of the Minister for Mobility The following application was submitted: - Mr Michel Croquet, adviser to the office of the Minister of Mobility In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 September 2018, Mr Michel Croquet's curriculum vitae will be delivered to the political groups and will be heard by the committee responsible for accompanying the P Committee and the I Committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 September 2018, Mr Michel Croquet's curriculum vitae will be forwarded to the political groups and the Committee P and Committee R's follow-up committee will hold its hearing. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u114	The Law of 30 July 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 5 September 2018. In accordance with Article 71 (1) of the aforementioned Act, an independent supervisory authority is established within the Chamber, called the Police Information Control Body. It is the legal successor of the current Supervisory Body to the police information established by Article 36ter, Paragraph 1, paragraph 1, of the Law of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy with regard to the processing of personal data. The Law of 30 July 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data was published in the Belgian Monitor of 5 September 2018. In accordance with article 71, paragraph 1, of the above-mentioned Act, an independent supervisory authority is established in the Chamber, known as the Police Information Review Body. It succeeds the current Police Information Supervisory Body, established by the first paragraph of Article 36ter § 1 of the Law of 8 December 1992 on the Protection of Privacy in Respect of the Processing of Personal Data. In accordance with Article 231 (1) of the new law, the Supervisory Body is now composed of three full-time members. In addition to the chairman, who is a magistrate, the Supervisory Body consists of a magistrate of the Public Prosecutor's Office and an expert. They shall be appointed by the Chamber for a term of six years, renewable once. The Audit Body is also composed of a Research Service, consisting of three working members who also perform their duties full-time, including two members of the police services and one expert. In accordance with Article 231(1) of the new Act, the Supervisory Body will henceforth be composed of three effective members who will serve on a full-time basis. In addition to the President, who is a magistrate, the Supervisory Authority consists of a judge of the Public Prosecutor's Office and an expert. They are appointed by the House for a term of six years, renewable once. The Monitoring Body is also composed of an Investigation Unit, which consists of three effective members who also perform their duties on a full-time basis, including two members of the Police Service and one expert. However, Article 285 (3) and (4) of the new law provides for transitional provisions for the current members of the Supervisory Body: - the chairman of the current Supervisory Body shall remain automatically appointed as chairman of the new Supervisory Body; - the member of the Privacy Commission (now Data Protection Authority) is automatically appointed as a member of the new Supervisory Body from the Public Prosecutor's Office; - the current Dutch-speaking expert-jurisdictionary is automatically appointed as a member (expert) of the new Supervisory Body; - the two current members of the police services are appointed as members of the Investigation Service (in their capacity as members of the police forces); - the current French-speaking non-lawyer is appointed as a member of the Research Department (in his capacity as an expert). However, Article 285(3) and (4) of the new Act provides for transitional measures for the current members of the Supervisory Body: - the Chairman of the current Supervisory Body shall be appointed as President of the Supervisory Body; - the member of the Privacy Commission (currently the Data Protection Authority) is automatically appointed as a member of the new Supervisory Body from the Public Prosecutor's Office; - the current Dutch-speaking legal expert is automatically appointed as a member (expert) of the new Supervisory Body; - the two current members of the Police Service are appointed as members of the Investigation Service (as members of the Police Service); - the current non-French-speaking legal expert is appointed as a member of the Investigation Service (as an expert). Since Article 285 (1) of the new Act provides that the mandates of the current members of the Supervisory Body run until 1 September 2021, the Chamber should not provisionally appoint the members of the new Supervisory Body. In view of the modified composition of the Audit Body, the procedures under way for the appointment of a French-speaking female member of the local police force and a Dutch-speaking male member of the local police are without object. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 September 2018, I propose that these procedures be discontinued. Since Article 285(1) of the new Act provides that the terms of office of the current members of the Supervisory Body shall run until 1 September 2021, the Chamber shall not provisionally proceed with the appointment of the members of the new Supervisory Body. In view of the amended composition of the Supervisory Body, the procedures under way for the appointment of a female French-speaking member of the local police force and a male Dutch-speaking member of the local police force are not applicable. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 September 2018, I propose to put an end to these procedures. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u115	Article 21 of the Basic Law of 12 January 2005 on the prison system and the legal status of the detainees, replaced by the Law of 25 December 2016, provides for the establishment of a Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Office in the Chamber of Representatives. Article 21 of the Law on Principles of 12 January 2005 concerning the Prison Administration and the Legal Status of Prisoners, replaced by the Law of 25 December 2016, stipulates that a Central Prison Supervision Board shall be established in the House of Representatives. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 24 (1) of the same law, the Central Council shall consist of twelve effective (6 N + 6 F) and twelve alternates (6 N + 6 F) appointed by the Chamber of Representatives by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 24, § 1, of the aforementioned Law, the Central Council shall consist of twelve effective members (6 F + 6 N) and twelve alternate members (6 F + 6 N), who shall be appointed by the House of Representatives by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast. Members shall be appointed for a term of five years on the basis of their expertise or experience in the tasks entrusted to the Central Council. Members shall be appointed for a period of five years on the basis of their competence and experience in relation to the tasks entrusted to the Central Council. The Central Council shall have among its effective and alternate members at least: - two Dutch speakers and two French speakers who hold a Master's degree in Law, including at least one Dutch-speaking and one French-speaking magistrate of the seat; - one Dutch-speaking doctor and one French-speaking doctor. The Central Council shall include among its actual members and its alternate members at least: - two French-speaking and two Dutch-speaking nationals who hold a Master's degree in law, including at least one French-speaking and one Dutch-speaking magistrate; - a French-speaking doctor and a Dutch-speaking doctor. The Chamber of Representatives should appoint an office among the effective members, consisting of two Dutch-speaking and two French-speaking members, of which at least one member holds a diploma in law per language role. Those members shall perform their duties full-time. The House of Representatives must appoint from among the actual members an office, composed of two French-speaking members and two Dutch-speaking members, of which at least one member per linguistic role holds a law degree. These members shall serve on a full-time basis. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 September 2018, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 September 2018, I propose that you publish a call for candidates for the Belgian Monitor. Are you sure you don't mind? It is thus decided. No observation? That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u116	At the request of the committee, I propose the legislative proposal (Mr Werner Janssen and Mrs Rita Gantois) amending the Act of 28 July 1981 approving the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora and its Annexes, drawn up at Washington on 3 March 1973, and amending the Convention, adopted at Bonn on 22 June 1979 and the Royal Decree of 9 April 2003 on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora by regulating trade therein, No. 3202/1, refer to the Committee on Health, the Environment and Social Renewal. At the request of the committee, I propose that you refer to the Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society the bill (Mr Werner Janssen and Mrs Rita Gantois) amending the Act of 28 July 1981 approving the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora and the Annexes, done at Washington on 3 March 1973, as well as the Amendment to the Convention, adopted at Bonn on 22 June 1979 and the Royal Decree of 9 April 2003 on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora by controlling their trade, No 3202/1. This bill was sent to the Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the national scientific and cultural institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture on 28 June 2018. This bill was referred on 28 June 2018 to the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u117	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the following draft laws: The government requested urgency pursuant to rule 51 of the Rules when introducing the following bills: 1. Draft law laying down various health provisions, No. 3226/1. 1. Draft law on various provisions in the field of health, No. 3226/1. I suggest you listen to the government and its motivation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u118	Mr President, the question of urgency is justified as follows. The draft law contains several provisions which must be introduced in the short term and which also have budgetary implications. The adaptation of Article 77 of the Health Insurance Act will speed up the handling of cases of fraud in health care and will therefore have a positive impact on public finances. The regulation on quality promotion for care providers needs to be developed urgently for the physiotherapists. At present, an arrangement has been made for 2017 through the national agreement between the physiotherapists and the insurance institutions. For the year 2018, part of the partial budgetary objective was reserved for this system. This measure was taken in implementation of the national agreement 2018-2019. The change in the reference years for determining the income of insured persons entitled to the maximum invoice is of great importance for insured persons. The proposed amendment of the law will take account of the income of the second rather than the third year preceding. Insured persons whose income is falling due to illness or unemployment have an interest in this. This change was announced for the year 2018. Harmonisation of the social status of care providers is particularly important for providers who wish to pursue their profession beyond the statutory retirement age. Following the amendment of the pension legislation of 1 January 2016, they can no longer constitute an extralegal pension. As part of the tariff security guarantee for insured persons, it is important for health-care providers to accept agreements and agreements. In exchange for tariff security, they should be able to obtain social status through other benefits. The requirement to prescribe electronically has already been postulated several times, from January 1, 2018 to June 1, 2018, and now until the date to be determined by the King. As soon as the law is published, the King may set the date of entry into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u119	Mr President, I thank the Secretary of State for his excellent intervention, which is quite complete and intended to justify the urgency. I would just like to point out to him that the debate on the subject was opened last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u120	Mr President, I know that the majority will support and support this urgent request. However, I would like to supplement Mr Frédéric's speech. Indeed, we received the texts Friday night, 600 pages! We agreed to discuss it on Tuesday. We have asked, since many amendments have been tabled, that the votes take place next Tuesday. We meet at 8:30 a.m. so that this can be done and the minister can go to New York. Coming to ask for urgency today is still a little limited! I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this text, in principle, has been ready since July. We received it last Friday to work on it next Tuesday. Another project by Mrs De Block is already scheduled for 2 October. We still do not have the text, but it is also, in principle, ready since July. Mr President, I would ask you to speak to this cabinet, but also to others, so that they can table the texts and all the documents necessary in time for a text to be put on the site and read by parliamentarians before the committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u121	Indeed, Mrs Gerkens, I will turn to the government to support your request. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u122	There are four more requests for urgency. 2. Draft law amending the Law of 1 August 1985 on tax and other provisions relating to aid to victims of terrorism, No. 3258/1. 2. Draft law amending the Act of 1 August 1985 on tax and other measures to assist victims of terrorism, No. 3258/1. 3. Draft law amending the Law of 1 August 1985 on tax and other provisions relating to the powers of the Commission for Financial Assistance to Victims of Deliberate Violence and to Accidental Saviors on the Victims of Terrorism, No. 3259/1. 3. Draft law amending the Act of 1 August 1985 on fiscal and other measures, concerning the powers of the Commission for Financial Assistance to Victims of Intentional Acts of Violence and Occasional Rescue for Victims of Terrorism, No. 3259/1. 4. Draft law amending the Law of 1 August 1985 on tax and other provisions relating to occasional rescuers and victims of so-called cold cases, No. 3260/1. 4. Draft law amending the Act of 1 August 1985 on tax and other measures with regard to casual rescuers and victims in unsolved cases, No. 3260/1. 5. Draft law amending the Law of 1 August 1985 on tax and other provisions relating to the powers of the Commission for Financial Assistance to Victims of Deliberate Violence and to occasional rescuers concerning assistance to victims of so-called cold cases and determining its investigative powers, No. 361/1. 5. Draft law amending the Act of 1 August 1985 on fiscal and other measures, concerning the powers of the commission for financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence and occasional rescuers with regard to assistance to victims in unsolved cases and specifying its powers of investigation, No. 3261/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u123	Mr President, we call for the four draft laws on victims of terrorism and cold cases to be dealt with urgently in Parliament. The Government calls for urgency, on the one hand, on the basis of its desire to grant the status of national solidarity to victims/non-residents of terrorism as soon as possible, and on the other hand to allow the new accelerated procedure for dealing with the pending terrorist files of all victims to enter into force as soon as possible by the Commission for Aid to Victims. The needs of the victims are real and the victims' associations are right to insist. It is also appropriate for the victims of the so-called cold cases to have the new possibility of additional compensation put into effect as soon as possible. Talks with some of these victims show that after all these years they are often still faced with important costs. In addition, for the sake of the substance of the four draft laws, the government proposes to grant them all the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u124	Mr Secretary of State, does this concern the four projects? So, we're making a global vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u125	If possible, yes! But if you ask, we can treat them on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u126	Mr President, we are not going to ask the Secretary of State, to be annoyed with the same motivation each time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u127	I mean, good! The Secretary of State provided motivation for the four projects. So I propose to have a single vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u128	Mr President, my question is also inspired by Mr Frédéric's excellent speech. I would like to point out, however, that the Committee on Justice has begun to examine these four texts and has scheduled hearings. So we are moving faster than the government train, but we still accept the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u129	All right. So, one vote for the four projects. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u130	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u131	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court unanimously adopted the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Consequently, the House unanimously adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Mrs Patricia Ceysens also voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u132	Vote on Amendment No 32 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs to Article 2.(2569/16) Vote on Amendment No 32 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs on article 2.(2569/16) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[55]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u133	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 78 Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-20-54-plenair-ip244x.u134	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Wednesday 26 September 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Wednesday, September 26, 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 26 September 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, 26 September 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
