ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u1	Welcome to the Defence Committee for the second part of the hearings on the file on the replacement of the F-16 aircraft. We have a hearing today with representatives and former representatives of the Defense Department. My name is Lieutenant General Van de Voorde, Major General Vansina, Major General Roelandts, Major General Ocula and Colonel Mariën welcome here. As at the previous hearing, I would like to ask them to introduce themselves first and explain exactly what they are doing in the defence sector. Anyone who wishes to comment on this can of course do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u2	Madam President, I will be brief. To organize the auditions, we had initially hesitated between Tuesday and Wednesday. As a plenary session will be held this afternoon, it will be quite uncomfortable for small groups. It would therefore have been more hoffelijk (courteous) to organise the hearings yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u3	Mr Hedebouw, I understand your point. The National Defense Commission always meets on Wednesdays, and I wanted to keep it that way. Last week it was not possible because of technical problems, but they were resolved and so the committee meeting this week falls on Wednesday. Wednesday is the day the committee members reserve for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the committee, good morning. Before I introduce myself, I would like to thank two ladies in the Chamber. First of all, I would like to thank you, Madam President, for calling in the early days of the dossier to keep calm and avoid lynching. I would also like to thank Mrs Depraetere for inviting me to come and answer for me here in Parliament rather quickly. That was really reassuring for my family, who could say that everything would become clear when I went to Parliament. Allow me briefly to explain my career to show you where I can add value to the debate. Most of my career has taken place in the aircraft modernisations. 1988 to 2012 I have devoted myself to a whole series of aircraft modernisation programmes, which have been brought to a successful conclusion thanks to good cooperation with various actors at different stages. By these different stages I mean: design, definition, specifications, contract, contract execution and preparation of the organisation for commissioning. In February 2012, I decided to leave the aircraft world to others and took over the management of the infrastructure, buildings, ICT and telecoms of Defence. The only activity I took with me in the aircraft domain was my participation in the Steering Committee F-16, where I continued to defend Belgium's interests as a prime member. That Steering Committee meets twice a year, sometimes one day, sometimes one and a half days. As you said, Madam President, I have been General Major since 1 July 2017. I don't practice any professional activity. About the period 1 July 2017 to March 2018 you don't have to ask me anything, because I really can't answer it. On the other hand, as my peace has been somewhat disturbed since 22 March, you can of course ask questions about certain aspects of the dossier, which I have been able to follow since then and so far through the press. I'll answer that within my options.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u5	Madam President, I am Frederik Vansina, the commander of the Belgian Air Component.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u6	Madam President, I am Major General Luc Roelandts, head of the Public Procurement Division at the Material Resources General Directorate (DG MR).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am Claude Van de Voorde, and I have been Chief of Military Intelligence for a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am Colonel Geert Mariën, I am currently employed in Melsbroek, as the second commander of the 15th Wing Air Transport. From August 2014 to August 2017, I was employed at the F-16 SPO in Dayton, Ohio.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u9	Madam President, I would like to apologize briefly for this afternoon. I, too, was uncomfortablely surprised that the hearing was organized on Wednesday. I'm chairman of the Kazachgate Committee. I must therefore be present in plenary all afternoon, where the report of the Kazachgate Committee is discussed. In a second round I will ask General Vansina questions, but in a first round I would like to concentrate my questions on General Van de Voorde. General Van de Voorde, my attention mainly goes to the period from 2014, when you were head of the cabinet. Before I ask my questions, I have two preliminary questions from the period in which you were not yet the head of the cabinet. The first question is an open question. Have you ever expressed a preference for an airplane either in public or internally within the military and the air force? Could I ask you to answer that question yes or no? After all, the answer is decisive for my other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u10	No, I've never had a preference.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u11	You've never had a preference. General Van de Voorde, may I ask you the following? I will read you the text from an email dated 26 April 2013 in which you will give a debriefing to the army top, to all those involved in the air force and all those involved in the replacement. "What's the alternative if it doesn't turn F-35? The Gripples, the F-16, the Rafale and so on, is that what we want? Oh, come on. For me, a new F-16 can be added to the list." General Van de Voorde, that e-mail shows very clearly that in 2013 your choice and preference goes to the F-35. Do you or do you not confirm that you wrote that e-mail?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u12	The e-mail doesn't ring a bell. However, if you state that the mail was written, I assume it was also written. We should go back to the context of 2013 in which nothing had actually started and where we had not yet done the tour of the potential candidates. At that time we had the idea, with our knowledge, that we would need a fifth-generation aircraft in order to maintain the hunting capacity in the long term for a very long period of time. In that context, the F-35 was probably the candidate at the time, with the elements we had. Afterwards, because I was interested in the alternatives in the period 2013-2014, it became clear that there were other candidates. I also mention why not and I didn't even know of the possibility to view a new F-16. So I threw that back on the table myself. Everything was still open to me because at that time we knew very few elements of the file. We weren't even in the prospecting phase yet, there was nothing. That was my opinion at the time, with the elements I had.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u13	Mr Van der Maelen, would you like to ask your questions? I'd like to group the questions. You can tell me who you're asking the questions to.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u14	Madam President, I have a whole series of questions. In response to what the general says, I'm sorry, but that's not how I read the text. In my opinion, the text as it stands can only be interpreted in such a way that it is the F-35 that one wants. Then there is a list of planes that one does not want, you even add the new F-16. As far as I am concerned, therefore, it is clear that this text says that you have a preference. I'm moving on. Colonel Van Pee said here last week that people had already started thinking about this in 2013 and 2014, he even mentioned prospecting. If you wish, I can literally show that in the report. My question is whether you or a subordinate of yours participated in those prospecting activities during that period?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u15	No, the official prospecting phase did not begin until 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u16	I read to you what Colonel Van Pee literally said here last week: "The prospecting activities were done on an ad hoc basis, both by people from the Air Component's staff," if I am not mistaken, you were then head of the Air Component "as by people from MR Sys A, the equipment manager'. So Colonel Van Pee said here last week that there were already ad hoc prospecting activities in 2013 and 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u17	I wouldn't call that prospecting, I would just call that looking at what's on the market. That's not an official prospecting phase in the file on the replacement of the F-16. That was to see, among those interested, the people who were working on it or felt involved in it, what there might have been on the market. That's all it was. There was also no active exchange with possible manufacturers or whatever.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u18	The conclusion of the ad hoc prospection was therefore that it had to be the F-35. I'm gonna go to another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u19	Mr van der Maelen, then I'm going to have the others discussed, and then I'm going to let everyone answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u20	Yeah, but they're all questions for...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u21	This is one-on-one continuous.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u22	They're all questions for Lieutenant General Van de Voorde. Why can't I ask my questions, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u23	You may certainly ask your questions, but I would like you to ask your questions, the others too, and then the panel will answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u24	That's good. Is it true, Lieutenant General Van de Voorde, that you participated in a Steering Committee in June 2013? Can you confirm whether there has been talk of the option of extending the lifetime of the F-16? If so, did you share that information in the army and later in your office as Head of the Cabinet also inform the Minister that that option was discussed at that Steering Committee? You can't answer directly from the president anymore. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u25	I will bring together a number of questions, as we did last time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u26	I would not like Lieutenant General Van de Voorde to come into conflict with you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u27	You will certainly be discussed, Lieutenant General Van de Voorde, absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u28	I'll continue with my questions. Now I come to you in the period when you are head of the minister's office. Under your responsibility, a note has been written, of which we have a version from March 2015. According to our information, the person responsible is Mr Flamant and the pen was held by one of his staff, Mr Pieter-Jan Parrein, whose degree I forgot. I will read you a number of passages from that note, Lieutenant General Van de Voorde. As head of the cabinet, you are responsible for what the minister's staff are presenting. I'm reading you a series of quotes: however, questions can be asked about the use of the current F-16 dynamometers for nuclear detachment. These aircraft do not offer the appropriate properties to really be a strategic vector that can drop nuclear bombs without being seen by an opponent. This can only be done through fifth generation fighter planes. Second quote: "As all current assignments of the fourth generation of F-16s can be carried out by a fifth generation aircraft and this latter type also allows additional operations and strengthens Belgian nuclear capacity, the option is to continue the current level of ambition via a fifth generation aircraft. Third quote: "A fifth generation aircraft, which is at the start of its development and designed for decades of further development. Fourth quote: "The purchase of a fifth generation aircraft also offers additional opportunities for a close partnership with strategic partner country The Netherlands for the joint support service. Last quote: "Despite the current limited position due to the non-boarding of a previous government in the development of this aircraft. Those five quotes all point in the same direction. My question to you is whether you agree with me that there is only one aircraft that meets the conditions outlined in those quotes and that this is the F-35? I would remind you that in 2013, according to my interpretation, you already had a preference for the F-35. You're gonna be head of the cabinet. A note is produced in the cabinet from which it can only be conclusively inferred that the F-35 is the choice of the authors of that note. That note was written under your responsibility as head of your cabinet. I come to the second note, the note of 9 November 2015. There are few points on which I agree with my colleague Peter De Roover, but I agree with him on this point. He said on 23 March that this is a crucial note. According to him that was the base note on which the government, later, decided to opt for the purchase of new fighter planes. I would remind colleagues, but you did not attend that meeting, which last week answered Colonel Van Pee's question as to who wrote the note of 9 November 2015. Colonel Van Pee replied, I quote: "That was the cabinet of the Minister of Defence. You're the head of the cabinet responsible for that note. I have a number of questions with regard to that note. We were able to read that note because the Minister gave up confidentiality. Why did that note have to be confidential? Why did only a limited wreath allow people to read? I assume that my fellow Members of the majority parties of this committee had no knowledge of the existence of that note. If that note had been delivered to the Defence Committee at the time, we would have had the debate in 2015, which we are now having. Could you also explain more about the creation? Are there certain persons, certain organisations that have contributed to the writing of that note? Who held the pen for that? Which cabinet members assisted you in that? Did Simon Put work on that note? Did Pieter-Jan Parrein cooperate on that note? Did Renaud Flamant cooperate in this? In short, did those who participated in the March note cooperate in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u29	Madam Minister, Mr Van der Maelen just mentioned me. He mentioned three or five quotes. Are they from the memo of 15 November 2015, which was submitted to the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u30	No, they come from the March 2015 note.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u31	Hence your interpretation of the one moment we agreed. We do not agree, for the sake of clarity, which, by the way, is very reassuring for me. You are insinuating that I would have mentioned the internal working paper of March as crucial. For the record, that is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u32	Colleague, that's a misunderstanding. I did not say that you spoke in relation to the March 2015 note on 23 March 2015. No, I said, you will be able to read it in the report, that with regard to the note of 9 November 2015, which Colonel Van Pee said was written by the cabinet, you and I agree that this is a crucial, fundamental note, because you said that on that basis the government decided to opt for the option of purchasing new aircraft. I now come to the content of the note of 9 November 2015. For the benefit of Mr De Roover, I would like to say that on page 12 of that note there is talk about the technical lifespan extension. On page 12 it is said that the cost is estimated at EUR 14 million per aircraft. That's a huge amount of money. According to the figures we know now, it is not once, twice or three times, but several times more expensive than the technical lifetime extension of the American F-16s, which are of a C/D version. The differences between the US prices and the prices in that note are really huge. Mr General, on the basis of what official documents was the cost of the technical lifetime extension estimated in that note at EUR 14 million per aircraft? I will then come to page 13 of the note of 9 November 2015, Mr De Roover, which deals with the cost of the operational lifetime extension. In the IKW note of 9 November, these are estimated at EUR 23.8 million. That's what the note says.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u33	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u34	Is it 22.8? Veli Yüksel corrects me. I'm willing to accept that. Then I made a typo. I had 23.8 written on my document. That amount is justified by a laundry list of upgrades and modernisations to be carried out. What does the information we've been getting show? Half of that list was already planned in 2015 or even in progress or is now not needed at all. That very long laundry list had to justify an amount of EUR 22.8 million. If we compare these 22.8 million euros with the figures given by Lockheed in 2014 to Portugal, which, like us, have F-16/Block-15, the difference is huge. The IKW note covers 22.8 million and Portugal 5 million per aircraft, although it added that a total of 60 million US dollars was needed for all engineering costs, testing and evaluation. So we can say that in the IKW note, the cost of the operational lifetime extension has been estimated at least three times too high. For the operational lifetime extension, I would like to know on the basis of which official documents that price was fixed. As far as we are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, as a supervisory body on government decisions, would it not be appropriate that there should be a completely independent review of these figures? Then I come to what Colonel Gates said here last week about operational modernisation. He literally said that this would cost billions of dollars in the billions. This ruling contradicts Lockheed's price calculation and the real amounts contained in Congress and Pentagon's official U.S. documents. Maybe it can't be answered today, but I'd like to get the answer later: can anyone confirm to us whether Colonel Gates' statement that the operational life extension would cost billions, is covered or validated by the Pentagon? My conclusion with regard to the IKW note is clear: all expenses that could allow the longer flight of our F-16s were systematically greatly exaggerated. For the sake of time use, I did not quote from the note, but when reading the note, it is noted that all the operational capabilities of our F-16s are systematically minimized after lifespan extension. That's my conclusion. My final question is for General Van de Voorde. Can you tell us what you did in the United States on March 20, 2018, along with Colonel Peter Letten? What was the objective of your visit? You're head of military security now, and you're going on a mission with Colonel Letten? No? Then I'll get the answer later, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u35	Madam President, my first set of questions is addressed to Lieutenant General Van de Voorde, who was Head of the Cabinet until June 2017 and who was previously Chief of the Air Force. Lieutenant General Van de Voorde, my first questions focus on your presence at the meeting of the Steering Committee of the group of European F-16 users in 2013. We could learn that from the documents that were given to us for inspection. It concerns the Steering Committee of June 2013. You then belonged to the Belgian delegation, together with Major General Ocula and Major General Roelandts, both here. At that 2013 Steering Committee, the lifetime extension of the F-16s was put forward as an option. The reports of this Steering Committee, Madam President, are not classified. This means that I would like to ask the question immediately to ask for those reports. If necessary for inspection, but I would like to see the reports of all those meetings of the Steering Committee. Lieutenant General Van de Voorde, first of all, why did you never ask Lockheed Martin to investigate the possibility of extending our fleet's lifespan? The models for this extension of life are in place. Later, in 2016 and 2017, we learned about the Belgian fleet. Why hasn't that ever happened before? We could have saved a lot of time, especially when the exploration phase, the market investigation into the possible replacement of the F-16s, took place. During your period as Head of the Cabinet, did you inform the Minister about a possible extension of life, on which the information was available at least since 2013 within the Steering Committee? Actually earlier, because there is a 2009 US Air Force study that, where it concerns the F-16s, immediately announced the methodology that there could indeed be a soft SLEP or a hard SLEP life extension. In short, the theory of life expectancy has actually been known since 2009. Then came the meetings of the Steering Committee, where you were present, and only afterwards came the studies of Lockheed Martin of 2016 and 2017. Thus, it has been known for a very long time that this extension of life was possible. Why didn't you ask Lockheed Martin a long time ago for an investigation into the lifetime extension of our F-16 fleet? During your term as Head of the Cabinet, did you inform Minister Vandeput of this possible extension of life? Second, as Head of the Cabinet, you were involved in the drafting of the IKW document of 9 November 2015. Colleague De oover, 9 November 2015 is an important moment, the date of an important note to replace the F-16s and not the lifetime extension. On the basis of that note, the lifetime extension of the table was swept. On what basis was that lifetime extension wiped off the table? 2015 is after 2013 and also after 2009. On 29 June 2016, the Minister in Parliament stated that there were no studies on the lifetime extension of our F-16s. This is clearly incorrect since the IKW document dates back to 2015. In that document, that extension of life was swept off the table after, I suppose, an investigation into that option. Then why did the Minister state in Parliament on 29 June, and you were head of the cabinet, that there were no studies on the lifetime extension of the F-16s? In addition, the note of Lockheed Martin of 26 April 2017 is the first conscious note that became known from the Defense Department because the colonel in question had not succeeded in convincing his own hierarchy internally of the importance of that note. You know that the first note of Lockheed Martin dated 26 April 2017. Then you were the head of the cabinet, not a few months later, but still on April 26, 2017. In that first note, the equivalent flight hours for our F-16 fleet were already calculated. The DOD was aware of that. This is also apparent from the mail traffic that has already been widely published in the media. Were you aware of the existence of that note? Do you think that, given the parliamentary questions that were put at the time, this document was important enough to get to the Minister? Major General Vansina, I'd like to ask you a few questions. Were you involved in the preparation of the IKW document of 9 November 2015? Do you believe that this document is thoroughly upholstered and objective? Then I come to my questions about your contacts with Lockheed Martin in 2016 or 2017, about the possible lifetime extension of our F-16s. I'd like to ask you to explain those contacts. The audit confirmed that you've been in touch. The audit confirmed that. On page 18, it's on the conclusions. As head of the Lcht component, you contacted Lockheed Martin to indicate that the Belgian government had already made that decision by the end of 2015, not to extend its lifespan but to buy new fighter planes. You've been in contact with Lockheed Martin. Why did you do that? Afterwards, Lockheed Martin, in mail traffic, also known to be a Belgian Air Chief, stated that the Belgian Air Chief is upset, was concerned by the possible slope of a lifespan extension. To what extent do you think it is correct that you have played such a role pro replacement of the F-16 devices? You actually proved Lockheed Martin, who himself provided information on the lifespan extension, according to the audit's conclusions. You said you were troubled by that possible slope. You did not want to pay too much attention to this, since the political decision had already been taken. That's what the audit conclusions say. So I want to ask you why you did that. Were you aware of the disagreement between Lieutenant Colonel Decrop and Colonel Letten about the feasibility of a lifetime extension? In conclusion, do you believe that the document, Lockheed Martin's note on the life-hour extension of our fleet, was not a theoretical exercise, it was specifically about our fleet, important enough to get to the minister? What was the specific reason for you not to pass the document on to the Chief of Defence or to the Secretary of Defense? We learned from last week's hearing that these notes were known within the Defense Department and that despite repeated requests from a number of people, they never got to the Chef efension or to the Minister himself, except quite late in the process, following the light contact with the Cabinet on February 6, 2018 by one of the people among you, Colonel Letten. I would also like to present to you the strange reasoning of the Chief of Staff Compernol and ask you whether you agree with me. If a political decision was taken in 2015 and there have been clear new elements since then, do you think that you should not have brought these new elements to the highest political level? A political decision can only work and be optimal if new elements emerge. I come to one final question for you. The internal audit showed that the member of the N-VA group pointed out to you at the beginning of February that there was more behind a parliamentary question that was asked about possible studies on the extension of life, a parliamentary question of February 2018. If you were informed of this by a member of the N-VA group, why did you not ensure that the Minister answered that parliamentary question truthfully by confirming that there were effective studies available? This is reflected in an analysis of the table attached to the internal audit. The internal investigation within the Defense Department has shown that there has been contact between you and N-VA's political party employee. Nevertheless, the Minister gave the wrong answer in Parliament. Finally, I have a few questions for Major General Roelandts and Major General Ocula. You're both in the mail traffic of Lieutenant Colonel Decrop. On 10 May 2017, Lieutenant Colonel Decrop e-mails Van Pee and Letten, but also to you both, with the message that Lockheed Martin's studies could affect the life span and that that information should reach the Chief of Defense and the Minister. Then why didn't you make sure that that information actually got to the Chief of Defense and to the Secretary of State? After all, you are part of the hierarchy within the Defense Department, in which you hold an important position. You didn't get that question for the first time, because Lieutenant Colonel Decrop has raised it several times internally for about a year and a half and tried to get information on Lockheed Martin's studies into the Defense Department and into the Secretary of State. You have reached that question, but why didn't you follow it up? Major General Roelandts and Major General Ocula, you were very often present on the Steering Committees. Major General Roelandts, you participated in it since 2012 and until November 2017. Why was the Minister never informed about the possible extension of life? Why is this track that was very often dealt with in the Steering Committee, never spread? Why was this piste never considered a serious slope? My final question to you, Major General Roelandts, is about the discussion here in Parliament about the ongoing operational upgrade of our F-16 fleet. Colleagues, last year the Council of Ministers itself decided to keep our F-16s operational until the target date of 2030. It is very strange that this was ignored in the parliamentary debate, as that decision was taken by the government, with the 2030 horizon. The upgrade of our F-16s in avionics, radar systems, interoperability for our international military operations is good. It's running until 2030. Major General Roelandts, it may be a bit of a strange question, but I would ask you to confirm that decision of the government, so that it is clear that that decision was taken effectively by the government. That's important because about the other component of the possible life extension, the body, Lockheed Martin at the hearing, I want to stress this, there has been a lot of confusion about it in the media... has never denied that the life extension of the body by six years is possible. What they have said is that going beyond those six years is problematic, because then one has to turn an F-16 device until it breaks up and so on. This is particularly costly and people do not want to do it. About the conversion of current flight hours, a normal sum of 8 000, to equivalent flight hours, Lockheed Martin said that it is perfectly possible that 9 500 hours of flying time, Belgian flight hours, as it were, can be achieved. This would mean an extension of six years. They were more cautious in that respect than in their studies only two months ago, that's right, but they never said they couldn't. That's important. 'Cause the puzzle pieces are right. The operational lifetime extension of six or even seven years until 2030 is guaranteed by the government's decision, and the extension of the life of the body is still perfectly possible. That's what Lockheed Martin still says, certainly very clearly in the studies and actually in the hearing. They have said that the data we have so far indicate this, but it may also be that it is different. That's how they put it. This still leads to the conclusion that the balance will go to a possible extension of life. To be sure, more research is needed, but the extension of the life of the body is still very likely. They made that prognosis in a February study this year. I still think it's important to counter that confusion of speech here again. This is the situation. There is therefore no reason to turn that page and now to decide, with the majority of Members of this House, that this six-year extension is not possible. This is the current state of affairs so far. So far my questions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at the previous hearing there was good news and bad news for the two camps: the camp that says that we can still fly the aircraft and the camp that says that the barrel is finished. I would have liked to present the following to the panel. I have made two columns for those two camps and I have tried to synthesize the arguments. I would have liked to have heard your comments on this because it is often technical matters that I would like to double-check if I may. In the camp that says that an extension is not possible, I have written down the following arguments. The first argument goes against Colonel Decrop's case that we will save EUR 150 million a year by extending it. Six times this would amount to EUR 900 million. Then Colonel Harold Van Pee said this is bullshit. I'm going to save everyone the calculation, but he says that the 900 million euros are wrong because we have to compare apples with apples. Indeed, staff costs and infrastructure costs must also be taken into account. In his view, therefore, there will be no more of the EUR 900 million if this is taken into account. I would have liked to have heard your comments on that argument. The second positive argument for those who believe that we cannot extend the lifespan is that the hearings have clearly shown that the long-term extension will not be possible. This extension is expensive and technically not possible because we are with Block-15 aircraft and the Americans with Block-50 aircraft. Our bodies are lighter built which makes the extension impossible. So forget about doing that. I understood that Mr De Vriendt and other people of the opposition agreed that a clear testimony was given regarding the long-term extension and that it was dead and buried. We have said this publicly, but I would like to know what you think about that. I come to the following argument from those who say that we should not extend. We would then find ourselves on a smaller path. The long-term extension may not be right, but it may be possible to extend it by six years. This requires the installation of trackers and, as has been said here, they must follow for three to four years. The question then is in which direction the severity factor goes. We have put these on 0.8 and 0.65 respectively in various studies. Depending on the situation, it may also suddenly exceed 1. So what are we doing? It would then be said to Parliament that we will wait and track for two more years, but in the end the whole tracking operation will show that we are above 1 and at even less than 8 000 hours in equivalent hours. Those who do not extend also say that we are doing the best we can now, because in six years time there will be no more competition like now. For example, one might think to save, but eventually end up in an environment where there is only one manufacturer left, leading to monopoly prices for aircraft. We would lose the poor thing that we would have won now in those six years along the way, because the only remaining manufacturer can charge monopoly prices. That is another important argument that has emerged in the discussion. What the extenders' camp says about the trackers contradicts the note we received on the last Friday of Easter leave. That note stated that the aircraft must be tracked throughout their lifespan. Otherwise, there's no point. Or one should track at least 90 % of the entire lifetime. That's in writing in that note. For the people who say there can be extended, there was good news in a hearing, because Colonel Jeff Gates of the USAF came here to say that two or three years is enough and that it wasn't about the whole lifespan. I would have liked to have had your comments on this too. A second argument in favour of that thesis is that it costs relatively little to go to equivalent flight hours. We had been told that this would cost a lot, but in the short-lived extension of six years it appeared that this would cost about EUR 10 million, which is still a lot of money, but is still a relatively small amount in this dossier. Can you confirm that from your experience or insights? A third argument in favour of a lifetime extension is what I call the vicious circle of the trackers. I asked if there were trackers on all the planes, to which Colonel Letten replied negatively, because the life of the F-16 would not be extended. Since we would not extend the lifespan of the F-16s and the intention was simply to see if our aircraft could reach the cape of 8 000 hours of flight time, we did not need trackers on all aircraft. So it is actually a discussion about the chicken and the egg: if one believed in the extension, one would have put trackers on all planes. What do you think of that argument? I have one final question. Would it make sense to place trackers on all aircraft, perhaps not as part of a lifetime extension, but at least to ensure that an aircraft does not suddenly fall out of the sky at 7 000 hours of flight time? If the trackers do their job properly and give a proper prediction about any extension, then one can also reverse the reasoning: would it not be wise to place such a tracker on each plane, so that we know what the severity factor is of each plane and thus prevent an aircraft with less than 8 000 hours of flight suddenly falling out of the sky? Does it make sense to do that? Why didn't that happen in the past? Was that for purely budgetary reasons or were there other reasons?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u37	Madam President, I have a series of questions for Lieutenant General Van de Voorde and for Major General Vansina. I shall begin with a general question for Lieutenant General Van de Voorde. Who managed in the cabinet the file of the replacement of the F-16 As head of the cabinet, you have the final responsibility in the cabinet. May I assume, then, that you should or should be aware of everything in this file? Second, Lockheed Martin's two studies of April 2017 and February 2018 were subsequently completed and updated. The study of April 2017 is still in your period as head of the cabinet. Should that study have reached you? Maybe I'll ask the question differently. Were you aware of that study, considering what I just said? A third question concerns the November 2015 information note for the working group and the government. Who made that note? Who's the author of that? I asked the people of the ACAP team last week. After all, I assumed that this was the work of the ACAP team. They said this wasn't their job. They have provided input there, but the note itself was not of their own accord. I want you to clarify that. Who made that note? Who's the author of that? When reading that note, it is noted that it is said that the various options under consideration need to be further examined. A feasibility study should be carried out for the four slopes. It appears that those feasibility studies were not carried out. Why didn't that happen? Members have just referred to the figures. When I look at those figures, in the light of what we have heard over the past few years from Lockheed Martin, among others, who talk about a possible lifetime extension on the basis of $1 billion, the question is what these figures are based on. Are those figures based on documents used in the past by Lockheed Martin or other countries that have made a similar exercise? I refer to the Netherlands and other countries that have F-16s. How objective and reliable are these figures? There is no conclusion in that note, which is very striking. That note examines four slopes, but it does not say that a lifetime extension is impossible or impossible to achieve. Only figures are provided and it is mainly concluded that this should be further investigated. That's what I understand. Unfortunately, that has not happened, but I am curious to hear your response. Then, of course, one can ask the general question. This is the document on which the government has based itself to make that political decision. Mr Van de Voorde, was the government misled with this document? Has the government made a decision on the basis of an incomplete file? I come to my fourth question. The audit concludes that there are regular contacts between the Chief of Staff, i.e. the CHOD, and the Department of Defense. It is said that DG MR and Cabinet MOD hold biweekly consultations on large investment files. I assume that this dossier also belongs to that category. Then my question is whether it is to be assumed that the cabinet and you were aware of all the information relating to this file, and therefore also of the study of Lockheed Martin in April 2017? If you were not aware of this, was your colleague and right-hand man, the Deputy Head of Cabinet of the Minister, also aware of this? This is a very important file for the Department of Defense. The audit showed that that information was not forwarded. Can we assume that, in such an important dossier, the Head of Cabinet and the Deputy Head of Office of the Minister will be excluded from the important flow of information? I have one final detail question. FIA has investigated mailboxes from key players in this file. It has been found that FIA did not examine your mailbox over that period, as did Mr Vandeput's Deputy Head of Cabinet. Do you think that's a good thing? One could also reverse the reasoning. If nothing was wrong, they would have looked at your mailbox as well, because that would have been in your favor. I come to my questions to General Vansina. The audit makes it very clear that at some point you had contact with Lockheed Martin about the famous study. It also states that you were not happy that a study was brought out. The study was requested by the Defense Department itself. Why weren't you so happy about that? Why did you say this couldn't come out if we now know that that information was completely irrelevant to the Defense Department in relation to this file? Why should it not be publicized? I come to my second question. All over this file, flight hours are a crucial fact. It is then about how one can collect correct and reliable data, with the recorders that one places on the devices. The question then is how much of the information should be available so that a conclusion can be drawn on a possible extension of life. There are different versions of this. Some say that 90% of the information should be available, others say that it should be for the entire lifetime of the devices and others say that it can also be with the data for a limited period, two to four years. Mr. Vansina, you are the head of the Air Force. How come that data wasn't kept from the very beginning for all our fleet's aircraft? If equipment was purchased for this purpose, we could know on the basis of concrete, reliable information how long our aircraft can hang in the air. I believe that this is essential. General Debaene said this was from before his time and that he couldn't make any statements about it. Perhaps you could give us some more information on why that didn't happen? How do you look at the two studies and the explanation by Lockheed Martin last week in the committee about actual flying hours and equivalent flying hours? It was also said at that time that collecting data about flight hours and the resilience of the devices can be done in other ways, not just on the basis of those recorders. How do you look at that? A fourth question concerns the ACAP team, the team working on the file on the replacement of the F-16. Did you have any contact with that? Was that planned? After all, the ACAP team needed input at a certain point in time to prepare the file properly. Were contacts planned and can you explain this? Finally, it is said here that a lifetime extension of the F-16 was excluded or should be excluded from the air force, because it had already made a choice for an aircraft, namely the F-35. Can you demonstrate on the basis of concrete information that this was not the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u38	Madam President, I would like to turn to the questions put by Mr Van der Maelen, first and foremost to Lieutenant General Van de Voorde. Meanwhile, several people have already referred to the November 2015 IKW note, which actually prepared the decision and thus appears to be a very important document. There are a number of peculiarities in that document. I would like to sum up some of them, and I would like to make it clear that it would be useful for the document to be examined, possibly by an independent body, so that we know what is in it, what is correct, and what is lacking in it in order to achieve proper decision-making. On page 2, it is stated that the United States Air Force will no longer be able to provide support for our F-16 picnics after 2034, while flying with 841 F-16 picnics until 2048, as part of an extension program that was already launched in 2011. It may be important that these data are always kept in mind. There was already effective knowledge of those renewal programmes back then. It was also known that there are other F-16 users who will use these devices after 2034. I also refer to last week's hearing. Colonel Gates of the United States Air Force replied to my question that our country will receive that support after 2034. I quote him literally: "Absolutely, the United States will continue to support you." Secondly, I ask a purely informative question, but I do want to know the answer. The IKW note mentions our 54 F-16s each time, but never the five spares. Let's make the sum. That's about 8 percent of the total fleet. This makes a reasonable difference to calculate the remaining potential of flight hours. My question is: why weren't those five spares included? I come to another point. It is striking that in the calculation of the new appliances, the loss rate is shown differently than in other notes. Or else put, with the word sometimes mentioned in other notes: the attraction. I do not know if you have read it correctly, ladies and gentlemen, but the attrition used in this note is ten times higher than the actual attrition of the last 15 years. I am wondering how in that note about projection one gets an attraction ten times higher than the attraction of the past 15 years? My colleague's observation that some things are overrated, or undervalued, at the disadvantage of the F-16s is in my opinion appropriate here. My next question is a repeat of other colleagues' questions. Why was the IKW note never referenced to the equivalent flying hours option? This was already mentioned in a 2009 note, as Mr De Vriendt said. One final remark: why is it systematically omitted for almost half of the F-16 fleet, Block-10/15, (...) users? These include Egypt, Israel, Indonesia and Thailand. The market for this type is indeed larger than the note suggests. Therefore, the maintenance costs are probably also much lower than indicated. Then I have a first question for General Roelandts. I refer to last week's hearing, where General Debaene explained that there is a strict separation in the Defence Staff between, on the one hand, the material managers, such as the fleet managers of the F-16, and, on the other hand, the purchasing officers of the Marchés Publics division, of which you are the chief. General Debaene literally said, "Il y a un mur clair et net." According to the general, the reason for the strict separation was the lessons that Defense had learned from previous large purchase files where things apparently didn't go well. This should, inter alia, prevent those who define the specifications of the materials from having too close contact with potential suppliers. Is there such a strict separation between the material technicians and the material managers, as indicated earlier, for the current ACAP team, which manages and manages the F-16's replacement programmes? Then I have a second question for General Roelandts, specifically about the recorders. There's a lot of pretending like we don't have any recorders at all. I would first like to point out that there has been an EGI in our aircraft for several years. That's an Enhanced GPS and Inertial Navigation System. Apparently, that's in all of our planes. That's not from Lockheed Martin. That's where the plane's flying. We then come to what Colonel Letten explained last week for our current F-16s, the 54. They're equipped with that IAT recorder, provided by Lockheed Martin. This should allow the structural loads on these aircraft to be measured. The representatives of Lockheed Martin stated in committee last week that these measurements are necessary in order to measure in the future the load of flying hours on the aircraft. Colonel Letten explained that we apparently cannot use those recorders because there is a software problem. That software is available from 2017. However, there is a software problem that prevents the data from being read. I'll come to my questions. Since we need to be able to measure in a number of years to predict the future, I wonder what efforts have been made by the Defense Department to get these IAT recorders to work? Are there similar problems with others? Have there been any contacts with the supplier to get this right? Was advice requested from other countries? I cannot imagine that we are the only ones who have this problem. Were any external specialists hired to get this right? If so, which one? How much? What are the effective results to date? So much for my questions at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u39	Madam President, I will keep my questions rather brief. That gives Mr Van der Maelen the opportunity to attend the hearing as much as possible. Moreover, I believe that the answers can be more interesting than the repeated questions that are being asked here. My questions will also be a little less biased and a little more businesslike than those of Mr Van der Maelen. General Van de Voorde, have you been involved in the operation of the ACAP team in any way since the start of the ACAP team, both in your period as head of the cabinet and in your current position? For my second question I will give a small introduction, especially to colleagues De Vriendt, who is not here today, and to Top. It is always dangerous to pretend to quote people who were here at the hearing last week, when you are not actually quoting them. We have heard from Colonel Gates, Mr Top, that no F-16/Block 15 has been extended so far. A possible extension programme beyond 8 000 hours of flight time would not only be very expensive, it would also be a very heavy guess, hence the importance of the hearing with the many speakers who spoke about the two memos by Lockheed Martin of 26 April and 12 February 2018. As well as everyone, it was agreed that these memos contain a calculation model used in the framework of fleet management and metal fatigue calculation, but that these memos are not fully-fledged studies and should not be interpreted as being studies in the context of the lifetime extension. I therefore have an open question to all panel members. Were you aware of those memos from Lockheed at the time they came in to D.O.D.? If so, what did you do with it and how did you interpret it? Those who did not receive those notes may have read them by now. How do you interpret the scope of those memos?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u40	Madam President, to repeat Mr Bogaert's words, I am in the middle of those who prefer a good investment by acquiring new equipment, obviously taking into account all the criteria (security, value for money, etc.).). We're talking about two sides, but that doesn't mean we're not interested in everything about transparency. We are also very attentive to it. As far as I am concerned, I am very pleased that the government has made a call for tenders which, in the end, returns all personal preferences to the shelves. Indeed, there is a call for tenders with criteria, constraints that are and will be examined. I remind you that this has not always been the case before and that there are famous issues in the political history of our country that demonstrate this. I therefore welcome the government's decision. Like my colleagues, I will be attentive to the answers that will be given to the many questions that have been asked. I will not repeat them in order to avoid wasting our time. However, I would like to ask three or four questions of a general nature and more of a forward-looking nature. My first question is to Mr. Vansina, who is the head of the Air Force. The only guarantee we have today for airworthiness is provided by Lockheed Martin, who maintains the figure of 8,000 flying hours by saying that extensions would generate very high costs. My question is this: as Chief Air Force Officer, can you assume responsibility for claiming that the F-16s are still able to fly beyond 8,000 hours with the same safety requirements for our pilots and with the same efficiency with respect to the missions to be completed? My second question concerns the recommendations of internal and external audits. They highlighted some recommendations in terms of information flow. CHOD has a month to prepare an implementation report. The government, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence are committed to this. I read: "With regard to major procurement programmes, it is recommended to always work with an inter-force project structure and to follow up on the project's terms of reference during all phases of the project, for example the frequency of meetings and the drafting of minutes which are communicated to DG MR – this has nothing to do with my party and I do not ask for these documents to be transmitted to us; it is, of course, material management – in order to avoid a simple service orientation". I would like to hear from you on this recommendation. How do you judge its relevance? We were all a little surprised by the hierarchical relationship between officers Decrop, Letten, Yves Dupont and CHOD. Audits showed that Lockheed Martin's memos on the structure were treated as usual. It was unnecessary, according to the audits, to trace the memo back to the CHOD or to the minister. The information would not have been manipulated; the various actors would have managed it properly within the framework of their competences. With your experience, do you share these audit findings? How do you feel that this information did not follow the hierarchical path and was sent to others, etc.- Is that what you're saying? I'm going to run the F-16 fleet. You're doing everything you can to keep the current aircraft operational for the rest of their lives. How do we do it? Are there any differences with how other countries keep their F-16s active? Small sub-question: Are the French doing better? More precisely, do they do better with their Mirage Rafale? The question that follows has asked me, following the analyses of our colleague Dallemagne, which I always listen to with great attention. In keeping with what Mr. Decrop had developed in his analysis, he highlighted the fact that if the fleet was reduced from 54 to 34 aircraft, the impact on staff – technicians, pilots, support troops, etc. - would be important. Can you tell us more? Let me clarify my question. Maintaining 54 old appliances at significant costs...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u41	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u42	Mr Dallemagne, I had the intellectual honesty to say from the outset that I was in favour of acquisition and replacement, but I do not want to buy anything. I want everything to happen in a transparent way, which is why I am attentive to your questions. On the other hand, you once said that you were in favour of the replacement and, suddenly, when notes started to circulate, you changed your mind, as always! Like the cdH. Anyway! I come back to the question. Is it wise to maintain 54 Block-15 devices, when they are now the oldest in office and, unless I have made a mistake – and this has been said to our colleague from the N-VA – they were originally planned for 6,000 hours? So there has already been a set of improvements. Personally, buying 34 new devices – I do not decide on the choice of the type of device – seems to me much more certain, safe and positive in terms of efficiency than keeping 54 devices under these conditions. Finally, in hindsight and in view of all that has happened, do you think that the government and the government at the time should have done the same as the Dutch and Italians and participated directly in the F-35 programme? Would that not have spared us a lot of difficulty and would we not already be in a technological, developmental and so on?- Is that what you're saying? Madam President, these are the questions I wanted to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u43	Madam President, I will also be brief, because I am looking forward to the many answers to the many questions. I have a specific question on the document of 9 November 2015 to Lieutenant General Van de Voorde. You were the head of the cabinet at the time. Who wrote that note? Who are the authors? I think there are several authors. What sources were used? Who ordered you to write the note? That was probably asked from the IKW, but who specifically gave that order? Why was the note held confidentially classified? Who asked you to do that? We have had the note for a small month now. When I read the note, I must say that there are few confidentials in it. That was actually information that Parliament should have had at its disposal. I have one more question for you, Lieutenant General Van de Voorde, and perhaps also for Major General Vansina. I would like to read a passage from the conclusions of the note: "As a general conclusion, if it is not chosen to acquire a new fleet that can serve for at least 30 to 40 years, in fact only the theoretical option for now remains to invest EUR 2.2 billion in the necessary adjustments to the existing fleet, so that it could remain operational and operational for six to seven years longer. I would like to comment on this "theoretical" option, because on page 14 I read, underlined and in the bold: "The possibility of a technical modernisation of the Belgian F-16's is subject to a feasibility study to be carried out." This note is located more than a year before the date on which the government decided to launch the RfGP. Why was the feasibility study mentioned on page 14 not made? I believe that such a feasibility study, especially with the information received by Parliament last week from Lockheed Martin and, for example, Colonel Letten, had actually made the file on the replacement of the F-16 stronger than it is today. Why was the feasibility study not carried out, because the note states that it should be made? I have one final question for Major General Vansina. You were aware of those memos from Lockheed Martin from 2017 and 2018. We heard the CHOD here last week. Why didn't you consider it necessary to inform the CHOD and the MOD? They both said here in Parliament that if they had gotten that information then, these hearings would not really have been necessary. You were aware of this. Why didn't you take the step to share it with the CHOD and the MOD? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u44	Madam President, I will try not to repeat too much of the excellent questions that have already been asked by my colleagues. First, in general, there is a strong tendency among public opinion to believe that not all options have been explored. The goal today is that you can provide yourself with evidence, demonstrating that all the different options have been well explored. It's not up to us to show you didn't. It seems clear to me that before the call for tenders – and although Mr Miller is talking about transparency when it is said that a call for tenders has been made – there comes a clear decision to replace, within which the call for tenders is then made. The debate here is whether all the options have been analysed before in order to make the decision to replace these aircraft. However, there is still a lot of evidence to suggest that this analysis has not been done, or at least not deeply. My questions will be very clear about that. On the one hand, they tried to make us believe that we had to have the famous fly recorders in the past at all costs, in order to be able to analyze whether or not we could prolong. This has been denied in committee, which is still not a detail. Can you now give us your truth about this question? Who screwed up? Is it in the course of the committee that took place on Friday during the holidays that we were told false arguments or is it rather the version that we had in committee last week that it was not, in fact, necessary to have flight recorders on 90% of the fleet to make this decision that is incorrect? If there was an omission of information, why? This would suggest that the goal is not to study this in depth. I'll let you answer that. Secondly, the issue of the November 2015 report on equivalent hours, the equivalent flying hours, which is again not a detail on extension, as we learned in committee. Why didn't you talk about it earlier? Has this been the subject of a debate in your own country? Has this information been consciously set aside? I think that's an important point. Third point: Minister Vandeput was very offensive on Thursday in plenary saying "No other country has considered extending beyond 8 000 hours" and he was talking about the 8 000 absolute hours, not the equivalent flying hours. There is evidence that Portugal, whose fleet is three or four years younger than ours, which was also confronted with economic problems in 2008-2009, could not easily make the decision that the right-wing government intended to slam 15 billion for the F-35. They then asked Lockheed Martin about the possibility of extending. Did you at the various meetings in the United States respond to this request from Portugal and to the answer that Lockheed Martin gave to it? So I would just like to ask you whether this information circulated within the army and if so, can you confirm the content of what Lockheed Martin would have given to the Portuguese government and army? Another element concerns the transmission of information. Obviously, you have each had Mr. Decrop's memo and each of you has decided not to bring him up to the level of the structure. Can you confirm that at no time has there been a discussion of Mr. Decrop's memo, either by e-mail or visu? If there were to be a collegial decision, that would be a problem. I would like to take this opportunity to take a look back at my colleague's quote. Van der Maelen on this amazing email, Mr. Van de Voorde, where you say, "What's the alternative to the F-35?" Largely before all the procedures, it's still not nothing. You're the air component's number one at that time. This still requires a strong climate. I would therefore like to ask you if you do not feel that by communicating this, you are preventing a serene analysis of the various options. You could say to me: "With hindsight, it's true, I was super enthusiastic about the F-35, maybe I shouldn't have..." For me, there's no problem, but today, do you not find that a certain pro F-35 climate had been created, that we weren't going to study all the possibilities? Several testimonies were given, including by Mr. Decrop. Could you give us your opinion on the content of this email? My last question is more global and strategic. A number of colleagues rightly say that it is a question of knowing what defence we want. I may be the only one here today wishing for a "defense" and not necessarily an "attack." I fully assume the off-line side of the PTB. I would therefore like to ask you about this aspect. Clearly, in the F-35 approach, there is still a willingness to change the overall philosophy of F-16 air support to other NATO components rather than spats, that is, the United States for example. So it wouldn't be air support anymore. With the F-35, we're in an offensive phase. Can you confirm that the model itself also implies a vision of being rather spat ourselves, center-before in the interventions? On the other hand, has there been any analysis within the Defence, or within the cabinet, of what we would need to have a real "defense" only, that is, what fleet we would need in Belgium to only guarantee the safety of our airspace? I do not know whether this is the subject of a debate. I don't know if this scenario exists. Are there any analyses that would define the fleet we would need if our mission were limited to defending our country and protecting our airspace? If so, the PTB would like to receive them. Do you think that with the current fleet of F-16, we could guarantee this defence mission of our country which, in our view, is the most important mission of Defence? I agree with colleagues who want to have a comprehensive debate on military and investment policy in our country. Has this third option been explored? My last question will be for Mr. Van de Voorde. I would like to return to Mr Simon Put. I'd rather have him appear at the hearing today. He couldn't be here last week. Maybe he couldn't do it again this week? I think it's a little unfortunate. We paid him for years with taxpayers' money. He was in the cabinet. I thought he could come and say goodbye to his previous employer and give us a little explanation. Anyway, that's the way it goes, apparently. I find it hard to understand that there has been a bad short thought about the fact that someone who was so close to the F-35 file in the cabinet could go to Lockheed Martin's office. That's a big career change, isn't it? Can you really guarantee us that the Minister has been very offensive about this, but I have to admit that I do not have enough elements for that to happen... We have seen a photo, which was put forward by a colleague from Open Vld, of Mr Put who posed for an F-35. We are told that it dates from the period before he worked in the cabinet, but the legend of the photo says:member or cabinet or governor. I do not know if it is a mistake on the website itself, but apparently that picture of Mr Simon Put shows a situation earlier when he was already working in the cabinet. Did you hear in the cabinet that he was enthusiastic about the F-35? Did you perhaps ask with the same enthusiasm to explain what that is like? I just want to know what the ambience was at the time in the cabinet when that picture was taken? I have one last question about Simon Put. Do you know what program he's working for now? For example, are you sure he's not working for the F-35 program? Since he's not here, and you knew him up close, could you perhaps clarify that for us? I listen with great interest to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u45	Madam President, as many specific questions have already been asked, I will ask perhaps more general questions, but they are central to me. Intellectual honesty, as my colleague Miller said, is to try to find out, in any case for my group, what is the best formula today in relation to a level of ambition that we want as important as possible. What can we do and what are our possibilities in Belgium in relation to this level of ambition? Should we replace these planes right now? We do not have an answer to that question, but we are trying to have one. Should we or can we extend the current aircraft? Which aircraft should replace the current aircraft, especially given our ambitions for a Europe of defence? That is the central question. We saw that information had been hidden from us, that two simulations carried out by Lockheed Martin, at Lockheed Martin's suggestion, had been hidden from us. The fact is that the colonel in the Material Resources department who is in charge of combat aircraft believes that this information is interesting. He's sending an e-mail. Many of you receive this email. Quickly, obviously, this information is not good. It is said by her superior, Colonel Letten, that she opposes the political decision just taken and that this information is not welcome. For your part, how did you receive this information? For some, it is already known, but compared to others who received this information at that time, how did you receive this information? Why has this information not given rise to an in-depth study? There is this scenario where Colonel Decrop says: "Listen, if we delay for a few years, as Lockheed Martin's studies visibly allow, we have planes that are always as efficient, our pilots are always safe, we can always do the same missions and in addition, we maintain our capacity level of 54 aircraft while with 34 aircraft our ambition level decreases compared to the current situation." This is not being stressed enough, but this government has planned to rapidly reduce our air force ambition. There is also greater visibility and clarity on the programs under way, and there is little knowledge of the development of the F-35. The American air force and Lockheed Martin told us, last week, half a word – and we understand that they say it half a word – that it was true. They said that they still had difficulties with the F-35 and that is why they themselves made the decision to extend their F-16s. The first question is this: how did you receive this information? Why has this information not given rise to an in-depth study? Why was it hidden from us? I hear the military hierarchy believes that it should not receive it. However, several colleagues and I had asked for this information on several occasions. Isn't this typically the type of information that should flow better within the army? Is it possible to admit that this scenario, that of Colonel Decrop, is the subject of an argumented answer, and not only a reply written on a corner of the table as we were entitled to it last week from Colonel Van Pee? He was not, in principle, competent to answer us because he was the boss of the ACCaP. Will we receive an argumented answer about the three strategic and political axes that have been developed by Colonel Decrop? I must confess that the demonstration developed by some was not one. This question deserves a detailed note to be forwarded to us. Could General Vansina and others like General Roelandts provide us with a specific argument – even if the government does not want it, unlike we do – to establish that this scenario may be interesting, but must be rejected for reasons that have been argued? We need to go beyond the caricatures, as well as the room-to-room debates, and avoid throwing serious items in the trash. I'm not going to recall Colonel Decrop's resume, but he doesn't seem to me to be a fanciful. He's someone who has a record track, as they say, and has an experience. An information from him therefore deserves a precise argument to Parliament. Then I feel like we were smoky late last week. I am thinking in particular of Lockheed Martin, but also of some of the interventions of the MR Bank. We were told that it was impossible to extend the life of an F-16/Block-15. It's been repeated, I don't know how many times. Turns out it's not true. Indeed, two countries are extending their F-16/Block-15. This is Taiwan and Pakistan. I consulted the Taiwanese press, which was very pleased to announce that this was the largest modernization programme ever carried out on a fleet of F-16s and that this would allow the country to have the best radars on the market – the ones we would miss. I'm talking about electronic scanning radar and active antenna. This type of radar can counter the difficulties that one might have today with a F-16 that could not meet certain requirements, particularly in relation to the Russian fleet or even the Chinese fleet. Obviously, they're equipping the F-16 with what's best. The Taiwanese boast that this will allow them to have radars as efficient as the F-35 radars. I quote: "The retrofit program includes installing advanced equipment on the fighters including AN/APG active electronically scanned array radar system, currently used in the US F-22 and F-35 fighters". They have a program that allows them to be at the forefront of the equipment that seems most sensitive for the future. These are those radar capabilities. We have not been told this and we discover it for ourselves, like many other elements. More fundamentally, to return to these famous 8,000 hours, no one says we need to go beyond 8,000 hours equivalent flying hours (EFH). Is there a need for a new certification as long as we remain within these 8,000 EFHs? We were swept away by confusing an SLEP that goes beyond 8,000 EFH with the fact that within 8,000 EFH, no new certification is required. We can keep the current certification. I would like a precise answer to that. If we stay within the 8 000 EFH, do you confirm that the current certification is correct? At that time, we know that our planes are less worn out. Staying below this barrier does not need to go back to a major certification program. This is a confusion that needs to be clarified. We are well in Mr. Decrop's scenario, below 8 000 EFH and in a scenario where there is no need to re-certify. Late last week, Lockheed Martin told us that there were no current SLEP modernization programs. I don't know. In any case, there are certification programs on Block-15s. We weren't told. Modernization programmes are under way. Very ambitious F-16 modernization programmes are under way. There are such ambitious programmes that modernization will not be completed until 2023. From then on, Taiwan will obviously use its planes. It is well known that Taiwan has serious security problems. They're not going to endanger their safety. They also have the financial means to acquire what they want. They could choose other scenarios. They chose a heavy F-16 modernization scenario, which ends in 2023. From then on, their F-16s will be able to continue to deploy for a period of time. I wish we'd stop confusing everything. Do we really need a new certification if we stay below 8 000 EFH? I don't think so. I've never seen this before. If we go up to 9,500 AFH (actual flying hours), are we not in the scenario described by Colonel Decrop? You know, if I'm told, "No, it doesn't work," arguing properly in terms of security, our ambitions, our capabilities, I'll agree with the argument. But I do not want the information to be truncated, partial, biased and we feel that, decisively, we want to be taken where some of you wanted to lead us from the start, without analysis, without argument, that is to say, the immediate acquisition of F-35. I think that Belgium needs to be reassured that its money is spent properly. Again, I insist, for us, it is a matter of trying to preserve our level of ambition and delaying as much as possible the reduction in our level of ambition. The other element is whether or not the planes that are now on the table are the ones we need. Last item. I would have wanted to know whether this desire to scramble this debate is due to the fact that Belgium is bound by its capacity, its decision to take nuclear imports on its aircraft. Is the nuclear port on future combat aircraft one of the elements that has played in the way this case was dealt with?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u46	Many things have already been mentioned, including, in part, some of the questions I had to ask on the file. I will therefore be very brief and will complete the remarks on a very specific point. I am speaking to General Van de Voorde, whom I thank for his presence. With regard to the aspect of political decision-making, since he was at that time Chief of Staff of the Minister of Defence, a reflection took place on the various avenues. It is recalled that the possibility of buying used aircraft had even been put on the table. That had been mentioned by the minister. It was then realized that this track was relatively expensive and had not been taken into account. These were the arguments provided. This means that, in practice, several reflections have been made. I therefore imagine that, during these reflections, in the cabinet too, the question of the extension of our aircraft was considered. Was it possible? At what cost could it take place? Has a budget and financial study been conducted on the issue of extension? Of course, we also needed to think about the safety of our pilots, which is important. This logic should have been adopted prior to the release of the Strategic Vision. In the latter, at that time, the decision was clearly made. This thought should have taken place prior to the investment debate. I would like more details on timing and reflection. Was it conducted? If so, how and who was associated with it? Has it simply been circumscribed within Defence or have others been involved, leading to a final decision, if any, taken in consultation with the Prime Minister and other ministers? It is important for us to understand when, by whom and how the decision to switch to replacement and not to consider extension was made. We know it's important. Indeed, the army tells us that, as soon as it was part of the Strategic Vision and the investment plan, as soon as a political decision was taken, it was no longer useful to consider other alternatives. That is also why the military tells us today that it has not communicated the information, which has remained in-house. Indeed, from the moment a political decision was made, they felt that it was no longer appropriate to consider this formula. I would like to have your views on this, as a member of the army and also of the cabinet. How do you judge this decision, the fact that members made at that time, the decision not to communicate? If you had been in this case, would you have had the same attitude, would you have made the same decision not to communicate this possibility to the policy? In the end, were you shocked to learn – as a Chief of Staff – that the firm had not been informed of these different leads? These are my supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u47	I have just taken a quick look at the November 9, 2015 note that was used for government decision-making, written under the responsibility of the Minister of Defence. In this note, the "modernization" part of the current fleet of 54 F-16s makes eleven pages out of thirty-five. The modernization scenario is therefore not far-fetched. At the time of decision-making by the government, the only authority to take this decision, the modernization scenario was seriously considered. There is a whole series of modelling in the minister's declassified note, showing that everything has been very well analyzed. I have a question to ask all members of the panel, both from the Air Component and from the cabinet, with Lieutenant General Van de Voorde acting as Chief of Staff. Who were the people who wrote this part of the note, so the eleven pages on F-16 modernization? What members of the firm have contributed to this? Did the then Chief of Staff, Mr. Van de Voorde, has written a substantial part of this note? And who, within DG MR, at the Defence level, drafted this part of the 2015 note? Did Mr. Decrop or Mr. Letten participate in the drafting of this part of the note, which became a politically assumed note by the Minister? At last week's hearings, we saw that significant technical expertise exists within Defence and that there is a strong relationship, even more within the Defence firm, between the administration and the firm, more so than in other areas. I ask you this 11-page out of 35 question about modernization because it has been learned that new elements have emerged following a meeting in the presence of Lockheed Martin – who makes a key note speech – and a Defence representative in May 2016. New elements appear there and are likely to challenge 11 pages out of 35 of the 2015 note. These new elements are confirmed by Lockheed Martin's memo of April 2017 and February 2018. And that is why I am asking you this question. Since last week, I have heard colleagues from the majority say that this is the end of history since the government decided to replace the F-16s. Yes, it was taken on the basis of a declassified note of 9 November 2015 containing 11 pages on modernization, pages that are challenged by Lockheed Martin himself. The crucial information that it is possible to extend the F-16 by six years without a colossal investment is likely to change the content of the note used to make the decision. I was wondering how we can imagine the transfer of information between the firm and the Defense, especially its Air Component. Eleven pages of a note are challenged by a memo and new elements because the situation is constantly changing on the ground, new equipment is entering the market. Is this such as to alter the decision? My colleagues in the majority say that the decision was taken but it was made on the basis of a note of which a third of the content could potentially be changed. It must be noted that one third of this note has not been amended. Indeed, the information remained at the level of Colonel Letten and to the knowledge of Major General Vansina. There has been something extremely striking for a week: there are obviously many members of the Air Component in the firm. Is it clear, at the time of the decision, what proportion of Air Component representatives were in Minister Vandeput's office? Lieutenant-General Van de Voorde will be able to respond to this since he came from it. I have a simple question for him. In the order of mission that was yours, Lieutenant-General Van de Voorde, was the fact that he was chosen as the minister's chief of staff related to this F-16 replacement file? I have one last question for Major General Vansina. We went together from March 19 to 20, 2017 in Jordan. We visited our F-16 pilots with the entire Defence Commission. It was very interesting. It was also a very high-level public relations operation for the Air Component and Defence in general. On that occasion, we were able to meet the F-16 pilots. We were also able, for two days, to realize the reality of a mission abroad. Then I asked you a question on the bus. I'll make it public. It's not a disturbing question, it's a simple question. We just saw the F-16s flying. We saw them take off and we saw them come back without a bomb. I'm asking you that question at that time. We were probably on March 19, 2017, so before Lockheed Martin transmitted the reports. In the end, what are we going to do with our old F-16s? In fact, in my head, it was clear that they should not be replaced. You said: "You know, they're worthless! It's a structural problem. They won't be worth anything on the market anymore and we won't be able to sell them." You can change what I'm saying because I didn't take a note. "They are worthless," you said, "and we will not be able to sell them, for example to Jordan or other partner countries, since there is a structural problem." Now that you've read all these notes and memos, have you changed your mind since our discussion on March 19, 2017? My question remains: what are we going to do with our old F-16s? Will we sell them in spare parts or in one piece?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u48	Thank you, colleagues. In the meantime, we have collected a whole series of questions in this first round of questions. I propose that the panel now be given the opportunity to answer these questions. Then I will immediately open a second round of questions and I have already noted a few speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u49	Madam President, I will answer the questions chronologically. The first question was about the presence of myself, Claude Van de Voorde and Luc Roelandts in June 2013 at the Steering Committee F-16. That's what got into the press. It is correct that we were present at the 99th Steering Committee F-16 in Amsterdam on 5 and 6 June. It is sometimes claimed that Lockheed Martin was there. That's not correct. It is also said that all the F-16 countries were there. That's wrong, too. Who was there? The Americans, the Belgians, the Norwegians, the Danes, the Dutch, the Portuguese and then the Chileans. Chile was then a candidate to join the partnership. Finally, it was decided that Chile should not become a partner and we stayed with today's group. Did Lockheed give a presentation there about the lifetime extension? Not at all, because Lockheed Martin wasn't there. That is also normal, because there is talk at a high level about budgets, decisions, priorities. It is a very bad idea to leave a firm there at the table, which then has the information and can then distort competition. That's a very wrong idea. There was a briefing from the Americans on their CAPES programme, their modernisation programme for some of their F-16s, both with regard to avionics and structure, but nothing more. For our F-16 fleet, no mention has been made of it. I would just like to say that we were already able to reject it in June 2013. As for the mail of 10 May 2017, Mr De Vriendt says that I am part of the hierarchy. I'm not part of Lieutenant Colonel Decrop's hierarchy. I'm out of the chain of command. I do Infrastructure and CIS. I have eight people reporting directly to me. There's no way Decrop's gonna be there. Have I been informed of this several times? Nor, Mr De Vriendt. That was the first time I received an email from Decrop about a memo via e-mail, for information. I'll explain how I treated it. For starters, I get him in cc, for information. It's all automatically classified in a separate folder with me. I read it when I have time. I usually read it diagonally. I didn't miss this e-mail. I don't think I opened the attachment, so that memo, at the time. Why do I get that? I thought I might be informed for my last Steering Committee of 31 May 2017, where I would say goodbye to my international colleagues. An e-mail request that says: MOD needs to know, is very peculiar. If you want to inform CHOD-MOD, you make a well-founded file that goes through the hierarchy and where everyone can give advice for the substantiated until the level CHOD-MOD comes. That hadn't happened here at all. When I received an e-mail on 19 May after a meeting between captain, major, lieutenant colonel and colonel, where a lot of questions were finally open, it was clear to me that this was not important to reassemble to the level of CHOD-MOD. At my last Steering Committee in Portugal, on May 31, 2017, there was no mention at all of the lifetime extension of our aircraft. So that wasn't really important to me at the time. Of course I followed the debates on the memo, because that was the reason to drag me into this story. I had to think back to one of the wise people in Belgium who once said "Un texte sans contexte n'est pas un texte." So this memo was used in the beginning to set up a case. I regret that very much, and I do not really have any more to say about that e-mail. Mr Bogaert's question was about the table of plan A and plan B, if I can call it that. I cannot really answer that in full, since I have been outside the Ministry for Defence for almost ten months and have not been able to prepare myself in detail. Anyway, it was my impression that I was sitting up there last week, that Lieutenant Colonel Decrop's story was based on loose information, which he was difficult to integrate into a well-founded story. That's my analysis of his arguments. He also mentioned amounts: 10 million, 20 million, 300 million, 600 million, even 1 billion. It was hard for me to follow. That is why, in my view, Colonel Gates said that they should take billions rather than millions, because that would probably be more realistic, without really knowing what he has just put forward as Plan B. On the basis of my experience with the programmes, we need a lot of information and a lot of people to do this. That's a complex program and that would be belgo-belge. That's something we haven't done in years. The Air Force actually learned in the 1990s that the weapons systems are best worked in partenariate, so not a contract with a firm to modernise aircraft but in partenariate together. We have been doing this since the 1990s, the Navy has been doing that since 2000 and the Army will now do that in the Strategic Vision for the equipment, in partenariate. If we want to set up a national programme, as I understand it from Lieutenant Colonel Decrop, belgo-belge, is an investment that is not a good idea, because it gives far too many risks. The amounts, 900 million and 150 million a year, I cannot say anything about that. Van Pee explained that here last Wednesday. He has nevertheless refuted the figures used in an unjudged manner. As far as Mr Hedebouw's question is concerned, he is talking about public opinion, about the creation of a climate, about 15 billion, F-35. I have reservations about this. That's also quoting cases of hors contexte. F-35, it's not. It is a competition for a partenariate and there are currently two partenariates in competition. So no F-35, but competition between two partenariats. There are very often 15 billion euro shields. Allow me to put that within the right context. You'll have to look at that on the Defense budget in 40 years' time, not one 15 billion contract, but 40 years from now. In 40 years, what's the DOD's budget? I don't know. That's up to you. I hear defense makes more money than it is now. That is also what Prime Minister Di Rupo said at the Wales Summit, and I also heard the President of the Council say that. Defense makes more money, so if it's three billion a year, then the total sum is 120 billion. So you have to look at that 15 billion at 120 billion, so 12.5%. The question now needs to be asked whether that is a lot or not for a partenariate that leads to combat capacity. Or is 87.5% too little for the rest of the Defense Department or not? I think that this is a fairer question that can be put to public opinion than comparing 15 billion with the money for pensions and schools, among other things. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u50	I won't answer that. It is up to you to answer that. One final point: Colonel Jones' integrity is being questioned and whether the Pentagon has covered it up. It is not for us to judge, Mr Van der Maelen. I'd ask the Pentagon myself. I think Mr Jones has been honest here and has said that America will always support Belgium. Mr Top, you have noted that. (...): Gates.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u51	Oke, Gates dan. Will America support us? America will, of course, support us. Americans are always very friendly to their customers. Actually, it won't be in partenariate anymore. He also said that the spare parts are more difficult to get. We also see in the support of the software that things are slowing down, so I think we are going down in partenariate and that in the 1920s things will not be performing anymore and that we will not be able to keep our planes up to level anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u52	Madam President, thank you. Dear Members of the House, allow me to introduce myself in more depth. Because because of your questions, I note that there are still some obscure elements concerning my responsibilities. I joined Defence in 1982. I've been trained as a fighter pilot. I flew on F-16 for 14 years. Almost all of my career took place around operations: as commander, so after my operational years, towers of staff were mostly carried out in operational cadres. As commander of a fighter squadron, I participated in operations over the Balkans. As commander of the Air Force Operations Division, I participated in the development of plans for the Belgian F-16 engagement over Afghanistan. As commander of Kleine Brogel's base, I followed our operations over Libya very closely in 2011. And as commander of the Air Component, I also followed our operations over the Middle East very closely. I have been the Air Component Commander since November 2014. I want to point out that, although this Air Component is commonly referred to as the Air Force, it is clear that the Air Component means that I have command of operational units only within Belgian Defence. This means that I command the tactical combat units at Kleine Brogel and Florennes, that I command the transport unit at Melsbroek, the helicopters at Beauvechain, the rescue unit at sea at Coxide but also the radar stations, the Meteo Wing, the training centres and the services that deal with aviation safety. As you have seen in recent years, I am also the face of the Air Component (or Air Force) as the public recognizes me as such. Indeed, it was agreed that each of the component commanders would be the face (of their component) in the eyes of the outside world, of their colour, if we can say so. So my three colleagues and I are the four faces with a fifth, that of the Chief of Defence who speaks on behalf of the entire Defence. I thought it was useful to clarify my responsibilities. I now come to the specific questions. I will bring together several questions on the same subject. A first set of questions concerns the note of 9 November 2015. I've never seen that note in the past. I discovered that note on the current issue of the lifetime of the F-16s, but I don't remember seeing that note before. As far as I understand it, that note was drawn up by the Minister's cabinet as one of the documents. We did not have access to it, and I certainly did not have access to the Air Component. However, a large number of specialists at the Defence Staff, where expertise is present on the left and right, have provided elements to be able to draw up that note on the cabinet. With regard to my contacts with Lockheed, maybe it's a good thing that I'm setting up a timeline. Since I am commander of the Air Component, as a specialist in air operations, I may be assumed that I am and that I can give answers to questions that I receive from, among other things, domestic and foreign stakeholders. I depart from the Government's decision of 22 December 2015. I have contacts with different stakeholders. In the spring of 2016, equipment management staff will contact me. The equipment managers are in the pillar of the Directorate-General for Material Resources, which I have nothing to do with, as I am in the Air Component operational pillar. Of course, we do work together and keep each other informed. As part of this cooperation, equipment management staff tell me that they have received an offer from Lockheed to receive studies on the lifetime of the F-16. I took note of that. At some point I was approached by Lockheed myself. This way I get an e-mail with explanations about the lifetime of the F-16. I have to tell you, I don't really understand what Lockheed is doing at the time. For me, there is a contradiction between the fact that that company is on the market to sell new aircraft, and the fact that that company gives the impression in my head that it was at least given the impression that it was able to steer a lifespan through all the briefings that were suddenly proposed or that I was aware of for the first time. For me, there was an inconsistency in Lockheed's attitude. There was a contact with Lockheed back then. If I am not mistaken, this took place in July 2016. I simply told them that in Belgium we had the impression that they were pursuing a two-track policy: on the one hand, new aircraft, on the other hand, an extension. I told them that we did not understand their attitude very well and asked if they could detail it. They then did so. This showed that there was no mention of pushing forward a lifespan extension. They just wanted to give information about the possibilities. That's the first time I've heard terms like force structure projection. During that discussion, I took the opportunity to inform them of the government decision of 20 December 2015. I thanked them for explaining the lifetime of the F-16. However, I also gave them away, in case they had not captured it. Lockheed is a very large company with 100 000 employees, which makes them the same size as Defence, Bpost, SNCB and a few more ten thousand employees. We know them a little bit. We've been flying Lockheed products for over 50 years. We know that there is sometimes a slow flow of information there. I wanted to take this opportunity to make it clear once again that there was a government decision. I read and hear that I was even upset during that phone call. I can assure you that was not the case. People sometimes tell me that I look harsh and have a certain timbre in my voice that might lead to wrong conclusions. The conclusion someone drew that I was even upset, I leave entirely on Lockheed Martin's behalf. I can tell you that this was absolutely not the case. It is certainly not the case that I would have said that all studies related to lifetime had to be removed, because I did not want to know about them. Absolutely not! There was objective information given by Lockheed about those studies. I've framed the government's decision. After that, I didn't hear anything special about it either. About a year later I hear the famous period between 9 and 15 May 2017 again and this time I was abroad for a conference of European air chiefs that Lockheed offered a force structure projection. I was not, for the record, a recipient of Lieutenant Colonel Decrop's e-mail, but I was informed by telephone. The equipment manager clearly framed and said that they had received a force structure projection, that there were many technical questions to ask, that a number of technical conditions were not fulfilled, that he himself had many questions about it and that he would return to the manufacturer, which was perfectly within his competence as a material manager within the material resources pillar. I answered him: that makes a lot of sense; do that. Then I moved on to the order of the day and my conference. It was a technical working document of the equipment manager within DG MR. For me, it made perfect sense for him to reconnect to the constructor. I'm moving the timeline to February 2018. I did receive a private e-mail, from a private address of a former colleague, in connection with a parliamentary question from you, Mr Van der Maelen. It contained general information on the F-16 programme, which I know most of. I simply forwarded them to those responsible on the Defence Staff to answer those kinds of parliamentary questions. I don't do that myself. Within the Directorate-General Material Resources, within the Air Component and other services there are other people who do so. So I just sent you that e-mail. The term as guidance indicates that it was intended for information purposes. One could take out what one thought to need to answer the parliamentary question. By the way, that e-mail had absolutely no influence, because I received a reply from Colonel Van Pee that the answer had already been sent a few hours before, since they had already received that parliamentary question the day before around the end of the day. So this was without consequence. Was I aware of the disagreement between Colonel Letten and Lieutenant General Decrop? Not exactly. I have, believe me, a full day's task of leading the Air Component, so I do not engage in interpersonal relations within other staff departments. I do not therefore recall any mention of this. The interpersonal relationships between other people within other services would, frankly, not really interest me either. Someone said Colonel Letten works for me. Again, Colonel Letten doesn't work for me. Colonel Letten works within the Directorate-General Material Resources as a material manager for everything that flies, but therefore falls under General Debaene, the commander of DG MR, and not under me. Of course, we do, as one can expect in a large company, have peer interaction. Of course, I want to be kept informed of the technical state of our aircraft. This is about the safety of the pilots, for whom I am responsible. So, of course, that's close to my heart. I am also kept informed of the technical condition of the helicopters, the C-130s, the NH90s, which we are now introducing, the A400s, which I follow very closely because we are about to phase in, the Marchettis and so on. As commander of the Air Component, I would, of course, like to be kept informed of the technical health of the aircraft with which our people fly. Then I come to the question of the 900 million and the comments made by Colonel Van Pee. Those are comments from Colonel Van Pee. I'm not going to go back to that. I can only say that when Colonel Van Pee puts forward figures, they are always well-founded. Colonel Van Pee is a grader and his figures have always been substantiated. I've always seen that in the past. Then I come to the evolution of the severity factor. Fatigue indices were established in the Lockheed projection structure force. Let it be clear: I have never seen the memo of the 18th; I have discovered the memo of the 17th, so the graph itself, because of this story. I was aware of the e-mail, but I only saw the graph lately. It is clear that these signs of fatigue, as the French call them – we also follow them on our Alpha Jets, etc. –, are a punctual indication. As explained last week, it is a picture of the technical state of a certain cell. Since we conducted operations for ten years, it is clear that while the missions we did were very difficult and stressful for pilots, for aircraft, the load rate was relatively low. These are six- to seven-hour missions where the aircraft are mostly at medium altitude, where they suffer less tremor, and where the combat phases are short. The modus that we have been in today since we stopped our operations over the Middle East is that of peace training. For such missions, our pilots push much further into the aircraft's flight envelope. Aeroplanes are more severely "punished" than during hours of medium altitude operations and flights. Here, they are flights at low and medium altitude, with aerial combat. I was in Florennes last week; they told me they were flying to Mach. Twice ten aircraft a day, with air fighting, in so far as, precisely, we need to recover the specific training that we have missed a little in recent years. We were very focused on everything that was air support to ground troops, troops in contact with the enemy, but we did much less exercise other disciplines such as air combat. So, our exercises are currently focused on this and I can assure you that the use of an F-16 in air combat exercises is much harder for the aircraft's cell and, moreover, for the pilot, than these long-term missions in the event of an operation. For me, even if I'm not a technical specialist - I'm an operational specialist - it's obvious that these signs of fatigue will go up to the initial curve defined by Lockheed. The gap between EFH and AFH will narrow. It's not possible to tell you how much. Regular measurements will be required to determine this. I also note that Colonel Letten, who is one of the experts who is truly recognized in the defence, in everything that is aircraft structure and aircraft technique – he manages all the Defence planes – has already told me on several occasions that he was not sure he could reach 8,000 hours since we will be, as he tells me, one of the only countries that will really go with most aircraft up to this structural limit of 8,000 hours. Most of the nations that use the F-16 and those we know the most, the Danes, the Dutch, the Norwegians, decided to replace them much earlier, well before the 8,000 hours. I have heard in committee last week and, as has been said on many occasions, it would be a great challenge for him and his services to be able to reach those 8,000 hours. Does it make sense to put trackers on all planes? Mr Bogaert, that was a question from you. I'll leave that to the technical services. I repeat, I am commander of the Air Component, i.e. the operational part of the Air Force. We have a blind faith in the management of the aircraft that is carried out centrally within DG MR. We are, as it were, users of the aircraft that are centrally managed by them. Our men, of course, maintain them on the bases. However, they fully determine the maintenance policy and the modifications to be made. They're the specialists. The decision whether or not to place trackers is entirely in their hands. In my capacity as a member of the operational part, that seems to me to be a good idea. The more we know, the better. However, the decision is entirely in their hands. Nor can I answer the question of why this placement did not take place in the past in my capacity as Operation Commander. That is a question for the people who do the equipment management. There was a question about fatigue data that could possibly be viewed in other ways. Mr Yüksel, I believe that the question came from you. For that I would like to refer again to what I personally found to be a very correct answer last week. A number of aircraft are measured using the radar FACE system. It has been stated that at certain times similitudes have been sought with other users of the F-16. First of all, I would like to add that this is based on the way in which the aircraft had flown. This is due to the inscriptions of the pilots at the end of the flight. They note that, for example, they had left for an air fight four to four, but for one reason or another, they eventually made ground attacks or vice versa. What also happens often, since our people try to optimize every minute of flight, given its cost, is that a ground attack is planned and executed, but that, with the few gasoline left, one short air fight is still taking place. The inscription at that time in the technical documentation becomes an inscription of ground attack shipment, which is thus much less burdensome for the plane than an air fight. An air fight that lasts five minutes may be as stressful for the plane as a ground attack of an hour and twenty minutes. However, the pilots write down the main point of the flight, which is in my example that ground attack. This is to tell you that there is a certain "flou window" in the correct determination of fatigue based on analogy. The same applies to other air forces. They use their planes in a way, we use ours. It is very difficult to make analogies, beyond very broad considerations. One question related to my contacts with the ACCaP team. If we read – and I think they were attached to audits – the terms of reference (TOR) of the ACCaP team, they are very clearly defined. They depend on DG MR and their mandate is very clear: they have to do the F-16 replacement study. My contacts with Colonel Van Pee are sporadic. It would, I think, be abnormal not to have one as we crossed the corridors of the staff. Those who know him know it's not a very large building. So, we meet and, of course, I'm going to ask him: "Those things, how's our plane replacement program? Is everything all right? What phase are you in?" So he was reporting on the status of the case in a very general way. I've never seen the offers that have been submitted. I've never seen the contents. They are partitioned on the sixth floor behind a door and I can assure you that they behave like guard dogs: no one goes in there, except those who have the right of access, such as, of course, the team, the individuals who are currently evaluating the offers and who are designated and with whom I also have no contact. In fact, these people have signed very clear ethical clauses, to work on the evaluation, at the request of DG MR. They are therefore subject to the ethical rules applicable to DG MR. Again, these are rules to which I am not subject. These are documents I have not signed since I am an operational commander. I'm not part of this replacement program. I'm not part of the analysis of the offers either. There were questions, and I'm adding General Ocula, who are more suggestive, to the Air Component's preference, to the F-35. I don't remember ever saying I'm in favour of the F-35. I have said, and this has been recorded by the press, that we will do it with the plane that we have at our disposal from the government. It is clear to me that it is the Belgian Government that will decide which plane will follow the F-16 and we will make the best of that plane, as we will do with the NH90, as we will do with the A400 that is plagued by childhood diseases. It's in our genes as Air Force; we'll get the best out of it. We are waiting for what will be made available and we will do so. I have always been impartial towards all competitors. I've been flying with all the F-16 candidate successors. I flew with the Saab Gripen at the invitation of the Swedish Air Force. I flew the Boeing F-18F when he came to introduce himself in Florennes in 2015. I flew the Rafale from Saint-Dizier at the invitation of l'Armée de l'Air. I flew the Eurofighter Typhoon in Coningsby at the invitation of the Royal Air Force. I did a flight simulator F-35 with the Americans, because there is no two-seater version of the F-35; this was the only way to get an idea of what this plane could or couldn't do. These were of course not the versions that are now presented to us in concrete terms in terms of radar and other matters, but that gave me a good idea of the advantages and disadvantages of each aircraft, given my experience as a fighter pilot. Because let's face it, every plane has its advantages and disadvantages. As for the issue of the Airworthiness Guarantee – Mr. Miller is no longer here, but I will answer it – it is clear that one person is responsible for these airworthiness certificates. This is the competent person within DG MR. Thus, in the case of flying systems, Colonel Letten is the only legally authorized authority to exempt these airworthiness certificates. And, I repeat, there is great confidence between my world – the operational world – and the technical world, led by Colonel Letten. And if the latter tells me that the planes are technically in perfect condition, I believe it without hesitation. And if he signs a certificate of airworthiness, it means to me that there is no problem and it is with confidence that I will allow my pilots to fly on these planes safely. There was also a question about the operational employability of the F-16 in the future, and whether we will be able to act with the same efficiency. Allow me to take you back in time. For me, it is clear that it is the Belgian Government that determines the level of ambition of the Belgian Air Component. That's obvious. What I've seen for the last 20 years is that since the fall of the Berlin Wall, we from the Air Force have been regularly deployed in foreign operations. This started in 1995, the first development into the Balkans. It then led to participation in the air war over Kosovo in 1999. There we had to deal with what we call a peer competition. The Serbian Air Force had a relatively developed integrated air defence system according to Russian model. That was based on ground-air missiles, modern planes like the MIG29, radars. NATO was on the other hand, also by modern means. That air war continued and losses were suffered on both sides. We have shot down Serbian planes, our people have been shot down by Serbian ground-air missiles, but the Serbs have also managed to shoot down NATO aircraft. American planes, French planes. You can see that if our air force is deployed in a scenario with such a peer competitor, there are losses on both sides. Of course, NATO finally made it, given the quantity and so on, but there have been losses. The F-16 middle life update with which we went into the air war was then state-of-the-art. We had one of the best fighter planes in the world at our disposal. The F-16 is already a very good fighter plane. Thanks to the mid-'90s mid-'90s update, we really came into the head of the peloton of the fighter planes in the world, which were then available. But I am talking about 1999. In 2008, the government decided that we were participating in operations over Afghanistan. That was a whole different story. There was also a threat, but there was no integrated air defense system. There was a threat based on kalashnikovs, cannons, small missiles with infrared seekers, rockets fired from the shoulder. Our pilots were able to defend themselves by just flying over all the guns. Since the main mission over Afghanistan was to support ground forces, they could do so perfectly in that scenario with the weapons we had and yet safely. In 2011 there was the assignment in Libya, which was a bit between the two. Colonel Gaddafi had an integrated air defence system, which in the first days was partially destroyed by the coalition and NATO, but then chose not to fight anymore. You may recall that a number of Libyan fighter planes have left for Cyprus or Malta; I do not remember. Our pilots saw that they were irradiated by ground-to-air missile conduction radars, but they never fired. It was explicitly decided by what remained of the Gaddafi army not to fight. Also there our people could keep themselves safe from the small guns by flying in high altitudes. In 2014, we begin our participation in operations over the Middle East, at the level of Iraq and Syria. The first phase concerns Iraq and is quite similar to our mission over Afghanistan: small-calibre fire, the possibility for our pilots to get safe flying at medium altitude, although the opponent is much more formidable than the Taliban. Indeed, he continually violated the law of armed conflict, hiding in mosques, using human shields. Exercise was very difficult for our pilots, who basically abide by these laws, unlike the opponent. However, they could be kept safe by flying at medium altitude. The operation concerning Syria is completely different. As a reminder, the coalition operates mainly in eastern Syria. In the west of it, an integrated Russian-Syrian air defence system is installed, the most formidable in the world, around Latakia, where the Russians are based. The Russians also have in NATO-peak Anti Access Area Denial, A2/AD. The Americans call it contested areas. They have now installed in Crimea, above Murmansk, Latakia, in Kaliningrad forts of ground-air missiles, coupled with radars, coupled with jammers, electronic warfare, coupled with GPS jammers, coupled with state-of-the-art fighters, who are now more and more entering, Suchoj-30 family, Suchoj-35. Our people have operated over Syria, although in a geographical area less covered by that integrated air defence dispositive, but where it was very clear, I also made it clear in the press that the only reason why we could operate with our F-16 today, unlike 1999 over Kosovo, even on the verge of such an integrated operative, was that the owner of that operative, in this case Russia, agreed that the coalition did so. As you probably know, because that is also clearly explained, there is still some kind of communication between the headquarters of air operations in Al Udeid and the headquarters of Russian operations to keep the operations apart. It's the only way we could fly. I fully endorse the memo of the US Air Force that you have been able to look at, along with the two audits, and it states that today the F-16 is largely kept up-to-date by addressing obsolescent problems, in particular the pilot helmet, certain components of the Sniper targeting pod, the target designation gondola, the issues that are happening around the self-defense-electronic warfare system, around the ability to remain interoperable, thus being able to hook into the classified military internet within which we fly, called Link-16, the fact that we have purchased new weaponry to act in urbanized area with a very low probability of collateral damage, new air-air missiles that are very agile but are still short carry, which are therefore a self-defense weapon. All these improvements that are part of a normal improvement cycle of the F-16, which we have actually known since the start of the aircraft, allow just to keep the aircraft operational. As operational commander, I fully endorse the analysis of the US Air Force, which says that within a few years there will be a number of shipments, and we will find that around 2025, where we will no longer be able to use an air defence system worthy of name with the F-16, fish à vis. I also endorse the fact that we are, of course, still operational for all the defence of airspace. There I agree with those who say that it all depends on the level of ambition of the Belgian Government. If the level of ambition is that the Belgian Air Force will only defend the Belgian airspace and now, as you know, in partenariate with the Netherlands, then an extended F-16 will of course suffice, but not if the level of ambition of the government is what is in various documents, including in the Strategic Vision. What I hear often is that we want to be a small but loyal partner. Over the last 20 years, we have done much more than just protect our own airspace. We have participated in NATO and coalition operations, sometimes very close or even in those integrated air defence systems. As far as air-policing is concerned, i.e. airspace security over the Baltic states, I am only half in agreement with the US Air Force, which says that we can do so. I can assure you that if our pilots with their F-16, who is what he is today, are to intercept an aircraft of the generation of the Suchoj-35 just north of the Air Defense Identification Zone of the NATO of the Baltic States, then that is as you walk in the forest and hear a very dangerous dog growling, which the owner says is doing nothing. It's the same thing. This is an aircraft that our aircraft, although our pilots are world top, is overburdening in all domains: in manoeuvrability, in force of radar, in electronic attack capabilities of radar and in armament. We do not have a relative chance of achieving this. That's just today's reality. Do I agree with the audit results? I have taken note of these results. I can tell you that the audits were hard to go through, that they were done very seriously, with people coming from outside. I can assure you that, for me, it was not a pleasant experience at all. I was serene because I knew I had nothing to blame for, but it was very painful hours for me. These audits were carried out in a very thorough and correct manner. There was a question about the comparison between how we manage our technical fleet and that of other countries. This is the responsibility of the General Directorate of Physical Resources. I have no comment on that. I find that our technicians are magicians. We can fire more or less 230 flying hours per year from our F-16s. The Netherlands, for example, is only able to draw around the 180. Our technical staff is very capable, very advanced, in this management of the fleet at the technical level. It goes so far that, for once, the Koninklijke Luchtmacht comes to see at home, in our bases, how we do to draw so many hours from our planes annually. As far as the French are concerned, it is impossible for me to answer because I do not know their maintenance cycle, but I note that they fly quite correctly with their aircraft from a technical point of view and that their aircraft are very well maintained as well. The question was asked whether I think, with hindsight, that Belgium should have participated in the F-35 programme from the start. If my memories are good – I was a young staff officer – indeed, there were discussions in the second half of the 1990s to participate or not, from the outset, in the program. The political decision was taken not to participate. Today I see that the industries of the nations that have decided to be partners now have contracts under the F-35. And our industry has contacts with all potential aircraft suppliers. You have noticed, like me, that commitments have been signed between our industry and the various industrialists. After that, it's their world, it's not mine. My world is the operational world. But I see that the industries of governments that have been involved since the beginning have contracts that our industrialists are now looking for. Mr Vandenput, you also asked questions about the November 2015 note. I think I answered those questions. It was a note from the minister's cabinet in which we had no access. Throughout the Defence Staff, elements were given to the Cabinet to draw up that note. I also want to clarify that I was not aware of Lockheed's 2018 memo. I've never seen it. I never even saw the force structure projection of 2017, but I was aware that it had taken place. Mr Hedebouw, you asked a question about the technicality of 90% and 20%. In all honesty, for the answer to that question I must refer to the technical services of DG MR. As Operation Commander, I'm not authorized to do that. I cannot judge your question about the Portuguese démarche in the context of the Multinational Fighter Program either. Last week I heard a statement that Portugal has much younger planes than we do, with an average of 3 500 hours of flight time, but once again, that is not my world. I know from my Portuguese colleague that Portugal does not currently have a replacement programme, but I do not know how Portugal sees the technical future of its fleet. You also asked, to confirm, whether there were no common positions taken by the various actors in this dossier. Well, I think the results of the two audits are very clear. There has been absolutely no common position. There have been no irregularities. No information was put away. In this context, I fully endorse the statements made by the Chief of Defense last week. The decision not to pass on the force structure projection is justified and I agree with it for 100 %. Mr Dallemagne, I believe I have answered your question about contacts with Lockheed Martin, the force structure projection, through my time line. You're talking about a smokescreen in the first session. You're talking about planes from Taiwan and Pakistan. By my general culture, I am aware that there are programmes for the modification of these aircraft. I think, but without certainty – because, again, it's technical – Taiwanese planes are Block-20s and not Block-15s. I'm not sure. I'm going to say it differently: I don't think it's the same planes as ours, Block-15 with the middle life update and the structural changes that have been made. The F-16 fleets, as was amply demonstrated last week, are very disparate. We operated the oldest in the world. We are one of the oldest aircraft operators in the world. There are four generations of F-16. The oldest are ours, the F-16 A. There is the younger generation, the F-16 C. These are Block-25s, Block-30s. There is then the third generation, they are Block-40, Block-50, owned by the US Airforce, Poland, etc. And then the latest generation are the planes of the Emirates, Block-60 or now the Block-70, which Bahrain will acquire. There are different generations, and even within a generation, there are subversions. Finally, each country has always been free to make such changes as it deemed necessary. Our partners in the F-16 programme, whether Norwegian, Danish or Dutch, have not made some modifications that we have made, because they have decided to fly less with their aircraft. On the contrary, we have decided to get as close as possible to this 8,000-hour limit. They didn't, sometimes at their expense. Last year, if I am not mistaken, the pilot of a Danish F-16 had to eject because of a landing gear problem, because Denmark had not made a change on the landing gear we implemented. There are therefore large differences between all these fleets and it is very difficult to draw similarities between these fleets. You asked the question about the certificate of airworthiness. I think that was explained last week. Again, it's a very technical subject. What I also understand is that the certificate of airworthiness lasts up to 8,000 hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u53	My question was quite specific: is it 8 000 hours EFH or AFH? I think there's some confusion. To my knowledge, there is no need for a new certificate of airworthiness if we stay below 8,000 equivalent flying hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u54	What I understood from last week's very technical session is that, whatever we use, up to 8,000 hours, the aircraft is guaranteed by the certificate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u55	So, EFH too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u56	That's what I understood.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u57	That's an important precision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u58	Mr Hellings, actually, I don't remember our conversation on the bus anymore. You describe this as an Air Force public relations operation. I would like to point out that it gives them great pleasure to our people there to see that Members of Parliament are interested in what they are doing. I don't think the purpose of the visit was a public relations story. The aim was to assure them of the support of the Members of Parliament and therefore of the Belgian population in the difficult task they were doing there. That's an observation. I don't remember too much about what we said on the bus about the structure. To me, it's clear that our planes aren't new. You have to realize that. They're planes of their age. You have learned last week that we have, apart from the theoretical lifetime, more and more corrosion problems. Inspections of the aircraft we do every 300 hours take more and more time. Before that, it was four weeks. Now, these are weeks and weeks more, because we discover cracks, corrosion, problems of all kinds that are attributable to the age of the aircraft. Will they still be worth something? Honestly, I don't know. You know like me that we sold planes to Jordanians, who make good use of them. Again, it depends on the level of ambition of the country that buys them. I don't think there'll be much for sale since we're going to go up to about 8,000 hours. If we consider our European partners who have F-16s, there is still a small potential. It all depends on the level of political ambition. A country that decides to do only the air force of the sky may have the use of these aircraft.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u59	Madam President, the first question concerns the handling of the e-mail of 10 May. I would like to give a small introduction to this. As I said, I am the head of the Public Procurement Division within the Directorate-General for Material Resources (DG MR). Within DG MR there are two very different areas of responsibility. There are two divisions of equipment managers, MR Systems and MR CIS & Infra. They are responsible for the complete technical and logistics management and requirements. Separated from that is my division, the Public Procurement Division, which deals with the preparation, conclusion and follow-up of contracts. So there is a very strict division of functions, which we call the separation of powers. We make that very clear each time. Long before I took this position, wise people understood that this was the best way to avoid problems. The e-mail of May 10 clearly concerns a very complex and technical management issue and therefore certainly does not fall within my domain. Nor do I have any specialists on my side who could give me advice on this. It's also an internal e-mail from a lieutenant colonel to a colonel, and I'm just in copy. Despite these "shaping points," I didn't miss that e-mail. We all know that 8 000 is a not negligible element. Then it turns out that the lieutenant colonel's e-mail to the colonel wasn't discussed internally in that organization, which is not my organization. Then there is the important point, that of course the e-mail of 10 May with its annexes cannot be viewed in isolation. On May 19th, the author of the initial mail sends a follow-up email, in which he at least makes that first mail very relativistic. I interpreted it like he's coming back on that earlier e-mail. In this e-mail, he logically no longer asks...... to bring the item to a higher level. In addition, his chief, the colonel, draws the conclusion from the annexes to that e-mail with one sentence: he says that there is no change in the 8 000 hours. For me, everything is closed. The 8 000 hours remain correct. There is no new element. There's nothing new. For me, quite frankly, there is no reason to raise a non-issue to a higher level in a domain that is not mine, by the way. I didn't receive anything about it besides these two e-mails, not even the year before. So far, my short story about the e-mail. I was asked a question about the presence on the Steering Committee MNFP. I have noted that I would have been present non-stop from 2012 until November 2017. I can assure you that this is not correct. I've been out for three years. At the end of 2014 was my last participation. Three years later, as a result of General Ocula's retirement, I took part for the first time again. That was the end of 2017. So I haven't been in the picture in three years. For the meetings I attended, I can say that I have only heard the update of the USAF, about the program for Block-40 and Block-50. It was about the extension of a 300 aircraft. I've never heard of an extension of our Block planes. There was a question about last year's file regarding the upgrade of the F-16s. My colleague, General Vansina, has already replied in part. I'll repeat it a little bit. I am not going to venture into the technical details, because I do not have the technical specialist of MR Systems at this time. I can answer it programmatically. There were two shutters. It was about the F-16 Community and Interoperability Consolidation Program (CICP) and Weapons and Sensors. That's the file that we're talking about. As has been said here, the HICP is a long-term programme. It has been clearly indicated that this programme has the task of keeping our aircraft relevant. For this we are obliged to upgrade the aircraft in different domains every three years on average. This, as I said, is part of the normal cycle to keep our planes operational. I have one further comment to make. I made it clear at that time that our plane must last at least another ten years from 2017. We're gonna have to do this upgrade and we're probably gonna have to do another one. If you look at the Strategic Vision, you will find another line. We will have to take the step again. We want the F-16 to be operational until the last day. A further question is whether the function separation also applies to the ACCaP file. That is indeed the case. Identically the same principles are applied for a small or a large file. The public procurement specialist on the ACCaP team is on that team, but on my battle order. It's someone who works for me. He was added to the team later, when there was work on public procurement. The same principles remain valid there. The question about the recorders is a purely technical question. I regret to say that I cannot answer that question. After all, that is not my domain at all. Madam President, I think I have given an answer to the questions that have been put to me personally.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u60	Madam President, I will put together a number of questions. As for my participation in the Steering Committee MNFP, I was present in Amsterdam until 2013, but for half of the meetings. I would like to point out that these are mainly technical meetings where the operations have a supporting role and the DG MR is responsible for logging and follow-up. First, I explain the way in which the cabinet operates and then I go back in time. Mid-October/November 2014 I will be admitted to the cabinet as director of Operations. At that time, the mandate of the outgoing Director of General Policy will be extended because no successor will be found. So I will only be appointed Director of General Policy when the cabinet is already in full swing and certain responsibilities have already been assigned to certain people. The agreement with the Minister was that I would not commit myself to four specific dossiers and would not interfere with them either. Two of them have an interest in this discussion, in particular the development and preparation of the Strategic Vision and the preparation of my background: the file on the F-16, its replacement and so on. I've kept to that. So I wasn't the classic head of the cabinet who was the filter where all the info passed on the way to the minister. Certain dossiers were discussed bilaterally with the Minister and I was kept outside. These discussions took place very discreetly on his desk and the decisions were taken there. The final decision was always with the Minister, in consultation with the directors involved in the process. Nor was I ever involved in the participation in the interkabinets working groups. The March note to which reference was made was an internal note and that of November was an IKW Preparatory Information Note. I found out they existed a month ago. I don't know how they were drawn up. I suppose the different directors got their mustard from the Defense Staff. That's how it worked. Mr Van der Maelen, you gave a number of operational and technical costs. I think the defense staff gave it to me, but I didn't see that. I wasn't involved. I've never had any contact with the ACAP team either. I just found out they're on the sixth floor, but I've never been in touch with them. There's never been any mail traffic. Eventually, that was a very small squad. It was the Minister's wish to deal with these dossiers in this way. That in connection with those internal notes and IKW information. As for the internal mail to the Defence Staff of May 2017, no, we did not receive it. I would also point out that there are procedures within the Defence Department regarding the way in which communication is to be communicated. The mail traffic is described as internal coordination. When someone wants to make something hard at a certain level, he writes a chip. The contents of a chip are never changed. Comments are given on a sheet. A chip on the CHOD, for example, should get to the CHOD. Every hierarchical government has the opportunity to express its opinion on this, but that fact sheet must reach the CHOD. A decision of the minister is made on the basis of a sheet that sometimes results in a file minister following the hierarchical path from the CHOD to the cabinet MOD and the minister. That's what decisions are made about. If they are complex files, they may be supplemented by a briefing to clarify them. This has often been done in other files. I was in the States the week of March 20th. In my new position, I visited the DIA, Defense Intelligence Agency, the CIA, the NSA, NCIM and Delta Force. So I didn't meet Peter Letten there. I didn't even know he was in the States. That was completely separate, from my current responsibility for initial contacts with our American partners with which we are doing a great deal in the context of the Iraq conflict and on the exchange of information. Much has already been said, and I am not going to go back to that. I've been audited by the FIA. I was last questioned there. I have not been asked to make my computer available. If anyone had asked, I would have. Their conclusion was actually that they had found that there had been no mail traffic to me. If one was not aware of something one may find it difficult to answer but that has been a decision of the FIA. Mr Hedebouw, as far as Mr Put's position is concerned, I can assure you that he was not among the people involved in the drafting of the strategic plan or the F-16 replacement programme. He's never been involved in this. What is its current function? What I understood was that he's not involved in anything for the F-16 or the F-35. He does strategic analyses focusing on Europe for this firm. Maybe it's up to him to explain what he's doing. Mr Crusnière – he's gone! – all this led to a political decision that was taken by the minister himself. It's as simple as that. Were I shocked or would I have been shocked if I had known? I have just explained that there are ways for collaborators to follow an official path, which goes back to the history of a fact sheet and all the comments. I did so again last week during a "command" briefing in my department: I recalled the existing procedures in such a case. It is a pity that Mr. Decrop did not follow this path. With regard to the presence of light bruises in the firm, I must say that for a large part of my period, I was the only blue. There are currently no clear bruises in the firm. The idea is to always have a representative of each color. Being a blue is not only getting involved in everything that is F-16, there are other blue projects that need to be managed as well. As I said, I have never been involved in the drafting of the strategic plan or the development of any vision. Maybe I'll say something about the timeline, too. Around May 10th, Colonel Decrop wrote his memo. Colonel Letten responded to that on 19 May and then there was probably some talk about it at the Defense Staff. Remember that I was working on something else two weeks later, but some of my fellow Members know that: two weeks later, I was in charge of military intelligence and I had other cats to fling. That's what I wanted to tell you. With great respect for your search, but I am sorry: I have not been involved in the drafting of the Strategic Vision in the Cabinet and everything behind it. So the directors didn't have to go through these files through me to win. That was the M.O. Then who wrote that note? This has been done by other directors involved, and that is summarised. I think I have answered the general questions in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u61	Thank you, General. Finally, I give the floor to Colonel Mariën.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u62	Madam President, unless I am mistaken, I was not asked a direct question. I'd like to say a few things. I have a 34-year career in the Air Force, most of which are in the F-16 world, although in the operational deployment of the F-16, either at headquarters or in flying units. I've never been a material manager, I've never worked at DG MR, I've never been involved in replacing the F-16. What I did, though, is probably the reason for my invitation, I have been employed for three years in the framework of MNFP in the F-16 SPO in Dayton. During that three-year period, which runs from the summer of 2014 to the summer of 2017, the extension of the life span of our aircraft has never been discussed, nor has it been discussed with other EPAF countries. I've never been in contact with Lockheed Martin about that, I've never received their memos, I've never received the e-mails from Rudi Decrop either.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u63	Colleagues, we have now received a four-page memorandum drawn up by Colonel Jeff Gates and engineer Mike McSpadden, which contains the full statement they have made here. It says for official use only. We will make this memorandum available to the secretariat. I was also asked whether we had invited Mr Put again. We have, of course, done so, but no response has been received. I am going to suspend for a moment before we proceed with the second round of questions. I've seen one of our invited cookies open to satisfy hunger. I'm kind of hungry myself. I'm gonna put sandwiches on. There are certainly enough for everyone. Then I will immediately open the second round of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u64	We will resume the hearing with a second round of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u65	Madam President, I would like to begin with a reply to General Van de Voorde. Colleagues, there's a ghost author out here somewhere. We have already asked three times who is responsible for that note of 9 November and every time we get the message of not. Allow me, General, to say that I find your story really strange. You say that as former Chief of the Air Force, you were drawn to the cabinet. You will be head of the cabinet, but you are not at all involved in the most important purchase file of this decade, perhaps in the first half century. I wonder now... I think we're getting closer to the minister. I think it's the minister, perhaps assisted by... if I understand you correctly, you said that it was through bilaterals or separates between the competent director and the minister. We were able to find out a note from March 2015. We have been able to find out who its authors are, namely: Mr Flamant and Pieter-Jan Parrein. Isn't it them, you say you're head of the cabinet, you'll know about this, won't you? If it wasn't you, then who was it in those separate contacts with the minister? Who were the people who spoke to him about the problem of replacing the F-16 and managing the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u66	The Director of Strategy and his deputy wrote the Strategic Vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u67	And so is the note?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u68	That's a preliminary note, I suppose.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u69	And so is the note of 9 November?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u70	That's an IKW note that I know was present during IKW's not only the Director of Strategy, but sometimes according to the theme "I don't know the theme "Can sometimes be the legal director', when, for example, an aspect of economic compensation was discussed. It depended a little bit, I've determined, according to the theme that was dealt with on that IKW.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u71	There is already an agreement in this committee that we will have a final debate later with the Minister. I think that before this final debate comes, we should hear from the authors of that note all the questions I have just asked General Van de Voorde about the gross overestimates of the length of life of the F-16 debt on the basis of which official documents those amounts were established. We will also need to know who delivered this to the Minister and his director. For me, after today even more than before, the conclusion must be the following. Who are the authors of the note of 9 November 2015? Who wrote to it? We also need to know who is responsible for providing information and figures contained in the note. So, Madam President, I suggest that we settle the work on the next occasion, and we decide and see who we will ask for. I'd also like to respond to General Vansina. General Vansina, thank you for explaining Area Access/Area Denial. It is a principle that I translate into ordinary human language as for fourth generation aircraft a no go area because of too dangerous. I see that idea coming back everywhere. It is in the IKW note of 9 November 2015. By the way, this is what it says. Only a fifth generation aircraft can operate in an Area Access/Area Denial environment. So that is a very important argument used to argue for the F-35. The F-35 is a fifth-generation aircraft, even the only fifth-generation aircraft. I see this coming back to the RfGP. It is one of the decision criteria on operational performance. There too, it has crept in and will be used as one of the criteria for deciding on the replacement. Finally, we have also heard here from Colonel Gates that he states in a note of 5 April that, according to the deployment scenarios he has received, as he wrote about it, the F-16 is obsolete. So that argument is really very important. You nor Colonel Gates have mentioned the bombing that was very recently carried out at a chemical plant in Syria. The installation was a no go area, to put it in human language. We note that the F-35 was not used for that bombing. There are reasonable doubts about the stealth capacity of the F-35. According to what I hear experts explain, it's not at all out of the question. You talked about the system with S300's and S400's, you explained everything that an F-35 could be hit. However, we note that the F-35 has not been used. What we have seen is much more important. Much more importantly, the attack was carried out in a very intelligent way, namely with cruise missiles that have partial stealth capacity and can cross a long distance. They were fired by B-1 bombers and fourth generation aircraft, including F-16s. I believe Rafales and Eurofighters were also present. However, I am not sure. Anyway, definitely F-16s. The whole argument of the army summit, without any political decision on it, that we need fifth-generation aircraft, so the F-35, in order to be able to operate in a no-go area, doesn't make any sense anymore. Long-range cruise missiles can be used to hit installations. I have a number of questions to ask. I've already asked about the deployment scenarios. Who decided which deployment scenarios were sent to Colonel Gates? From his answer, I think I can see that one of the deployment scenarios that went to him means that one can also operate in a no go area. Politics has not yet been decided by my knowledge. Either the Minister himself decided to send that deployment scenario to Gates, or it was the military. I want to know who made that decision. You said it yourself, General Vansina: the level of ambition must be determined by politics, not by the military. That's my first question. I come to my second question. Colonel Gates is an intriguing figure. I have an article here from February 4, 2010. It states that Colonel Jeff Gates was the Programme Manager of the special cruise missile, several of which were fired at the chemical plant two weeks ago. Gates was responsible for finding out if this was possible from an F-16. He's the military expert who came here last week to say that an F-16 is obsolete in a no go area, so at an Area Access/Area Denial. If there is anyone who knew that this is not right, then he must be, because he was responsible for achieving that application from an F-16. This brings me back to the question of what drives Mr Gates? Would he perhaps prefer that Belgium buys F-35s rather than that we continue to consider the option of extending the F-16s? So I conclude that the 2015 IKW note is not correct on this point. I cannot prove that anyone in the Belgian army had already heard of the solution found 14 days ago to that problem with the bombing of the chemical plant, but at least today we know that it is not absolutely necessary to have a fifth generation aircraft in order to be able to bomb an installation located in a no-go area. Finally, a question which I will give you, but which you do not have to answer, I will ask the Minister. Now that we know this, hasn't the time come to remove that decision criterion from the RfGP? I have two more points for General Vansina. It's not easy to follow. You started by saying that you are in a completely different operational structure. In addition, there is Material Resources, completely separated; I have learned separation of powers. We have been told on previous occasions and today it has been repeated that ACCaP is completely closed off of everything. ACAP deals only with the problem of aircraft replacement. If I listen to your answers about the situation that arose as a result of the question I asked at the beginning of February, what do I see? You said yourself you received an e-mail from a former employee. I assume it's Jos Vanschoenwinkel, who's responsible for the defense of the N-VA group. It is very strange that he contacts you, who belongs to the operational leg, about something related to Material Resources, the extension of the F-16. I find it very strange that Mr Vanschoenwinkel apparently does not have the separation of powers, or those walls are easier to cross than you would like us to think. It's getting stronger. From your answer, I learned the following. Besides, all we know is the subject of the mail:as guidance. If I have understood correctly, in your reply, which is too late, you wanted to make a leading contribution. You say the answer will be too late, because it was written by ACCaP. I thought ACAP wasn't concerned with the granting of the F-16, because that's where the separation of powers should apply. I come to the conclusion that pretending that everyone on their own island has taken decisions on this matter is not in line with the way in which a parliamentary question has been answered. All the main players are in touch. I come to one final point. Then, unfortunately, I will have to leave the committee meeting, because I have to go to the plenary. I would like to say two more things about the savings that can be made by flying six years longer with the F-16 compared to the F-35. Firstly, if we start from the figures of the American Court of Auditors and translate them into the Belgian situation, then we will come to a saving greater than EUR 900 million over six years. Secondly, to make it clearer and more understandable to everyone: the latest figures available show that the cost per hour for an aircraft is EUR 5 900 for an F-16, EUR 13 000 to EUR 14 000 for a Rafale and for a Eurofighter Typhoon and EUR 24 000 per hour for an F-35, but higher amounts are also quoted. If you are aware that the RfGP states that our F-35s will fly 7900 hours a year, you can determine how much savings six years longer can fly with an F-16. So far, Madam President, my questions. My colleague is here and will listen to the answer. I apologize to the gentlemen for requiring me to leave you. I'm not responsible for the unfortunate planning of this hearing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u72	Thank you very much, Mr Van der Maelen. We will discuss your question in the Defence Committee. We will arrange for the work to be done there to discuss your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u73	First of all, a question for Major Vansina. You have given yourself a piece of chronology and you have made it clear that during a number of moments you were involved in this file about the lifetime extension because the information has reached you, because you have e-mailed or sent information yourself. This has happened three times. The way in which you have always reacted raises a number of questions for me. I'm going to explain to you why. In the spring of 2016 you will be informed of the offer...................................................................................................................................................... You did not understand that and you chose not to transfer Lockheed Martin's reply to DG MR, for example, but to respond to it yourself. Lockheed Martin will not just contact the operational chief of our air force about this. In addition, in 2016 Lockheed Martin clearly recommended something which was supposedly wiped off the table by Lockheed Martin himself only last week. This evolution and your reaction to it are strange. You say that you have not understood and that you have contacted Lockheed Martin yourself and that you have personally interfered with the slope around life extension. That is important because in other cases you said that it was not your job and that you passed it on. Here you contacted Lockheed Martin yourself. Lockheed Martin says in e-mail traffic that you were troubled. You say this is because of your voice imbre. That is, of course, an interpretation of Lockheed Martin. The fact is, you've contacted us yourself. You then say that Lockheed Martin explained to you that what they say is not a life extension. That is strange, because this extension of life is above 8 000 hours in their reports of April 2017 and February 2018. There's another strange reaction from you. You will receive an e-mail from the current member of the N-VA, who is rather insinuating and politically sensitive. He points out to you that there is more behind Mr Van der Maelen's parliamentary question. You'll just send me that e-mail. Do you not wonder why you, as operational boss, are being e-mailed by the current member of the N-VA? Why didn't you do anything with that e-mail? Why did you not use it to ensure that Parliament was given the right information at that time? Were you not concerned that the Minister of Defence would not respond correctly to a question from Parliament? Have you not had a tendency to raise the alarm when you receive such a strange, insinuating, suggestive, party politically sensitive e-mail? In May 2017, you will hear that Lockheed Martin made a projection about the Belgian F-16 fleet. The material manager will tell you that nothing is wrong and will give you counter arguments that you accept. Mr Vansina, my first conclusion is that you simply forward, trust other people within the army and act passively, unless you get information that disrupts the 2015 government decision. Then the gate is of the dam. Then you do not simply forward that information to the DG MR but contact Lockheed Martin yourself for further explanations, so outside your jurisdiction. The reaction of Lockheed Martin has already been quoted enough. I think that's weird. I don't think that makes any sense. I would therefore ask you to explain how you have responded to these three examples. Secondly, you are responsible for our air force. You will be contacted directly by Lockheed Martin with that offer. Then why didn't you contact the Chief of Defense or the Secretary of Defense? Lockheed Martin felt it necessary to contact you directly with very important information, otherwise they wouldn't. You call back yourself, but why didn't you tell the Chief of Defense or the Secretary of Defense at the time? As for the metaphor with the dangerous dog we may encounter in the forest, but the boss says there is no problem because he doesn't bite, you make it parallel to the performance of our F-16s in the Baltic Air Police and the proximity of Russian aircraft. I hope you yourself made a risk assessment of that assignment. Our F-16s, in the state they are in, do fly there with a certain level of threat. You have therefore considered that this level of threat is not such as to prevent our Belgian F-16s from participating in the operation above the Baltic. Our F-16s, in the state in which they are located, can, according to the Defense Department, participate perfectly in that mission, otherwise they would not have done so, I hope? Again about the level of ambition. You say we need another plane if we want to fight the Russians, a fifth-generation device. Are we really going to invest in our defence in order to be able to fight the Russians? Is that a motivation for submitting certain investment files to the political level? I find that rather surprising, if you ask me. As far as Major General Roelandts is concerned. Major General, you say you don't have the expertise. You are in a number of emails in cc, but you say that you are only in cc and you also say that you do not have the expertise to speak out. That's why you didn't do anything about it. I think there's a pattern on the flow of information within the Defense Department. The flow of information within the Defense Department around this file can be summarized in two points. One, those who are informed of this case, but who are not in the immediate hierarchy, do nothing, do no action. Two, those who have been included in the hierarchy, for example all persons who have informed Lieutenant Colonel Decrop since June 2016, a year before all the mails in question, and who have been included in the hierarchy, remove Lockheed Martin's information as irrelevant. Here no checks-and-balances by others, like you, who are informed at some point, but indicate that it is not their jurisdiction and therefore do nothing. I find that problematic. In this way, there are insufficient checks-and-balances within Defence by people who react assertively and assess the information from their position, even though they are not included in the hierarchy. You're Major General. You're in good company with your colleagues, by the way. So you can weigh in on the decision-making process within the Defense Department. However, you decide not to do so in all the cases mentioned above, so that your final decision to consider the studies of Lockheed Martin as irrelevant depends in fact only on one, two or three persons, who are also contradicted at the same level by the then material manager, which is one of the experts of our F-16 fleet. All other persons outside the hierarchy who are informed and who could provide the checks-and-balances will not respond. You'll explain yourself. You state that you do not have the expertise and that you were in the mail but in cc. You do, however, have the weight to pull the alarm and to ensure that the information is further disseminated, discussed in a serious way and forwarded to the political level. You are sitting there with all your colleagues, all of whom state that they will not, because they do not have the authority to do so. So there's a problem of information flow within the DOD when I hear all that. Finally, Lieutenant General Van de Voorde, it is remarkable how little you claim to know in your capacity as Head of the Cabinet of the Minister and former Head of the Air Force about the investment file of the century within our Defense Department. That is particularly remarkable. It is equally remarkable to hear how discussions on the F-16 dossier take place in the cabinet of the Minister. I quote: "Very discreet on his desk." You don't really know which people you're dealing with. Apparently, certain individuals can have direct and very discreet access to the Minister on this dossier on his desk. IKW notes are drawn up, without the head of the cabinet being aware of them. I repeat, the head of the Secretary of Defense's cabinet is not aware of an IKW note on the file of the century. IKW notes are usually discussed but not always in the presence of all cabinet heads. The chiefs of the cabinet are always aware of such IKW notes and of such discussions. Madam President, the opposition has once again requested the presence of Minister Vandeput. In fact, I would almost say that Minister Vandeput's presence would now be very useful because I would like to continue at those very discreet meetings in his office, apparently without his head of office being aware of them. Has it already been acquired that Minister Vandeput, along with the Prime Minister, among others, whom we have also asked for, will come about this investment dossier? There are two more things that bother me. They're pretending that Lieutenant Colonel Decrop doesn't e-mail outside his hierarchy until 2017. I repeat that Lieutenant Colonel Decrop's first mail was within his hierarchy, to Colonel Letten, among others, one year before, on 15 June 2016. I would like to change the picture that this man has immediately started e-mailing outside his hierarchy. Lieutenant General Van de Voorde, you just said that the e-mails of 19 May 2017, involving Major General Roelants and Major General Ocula outside the hierarchy, were spoken within the Defence Staff. It is only a pity that the external audit has not been able or willing to analyse the further e-mail traffic after 19 May 2017. I find that particularly regrettable when it is still being discussed in the Defence Staff at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u74	I can tell you that the Minister is always prepared to explain this. That's no problem at all. I propose that we take your question with us to the next committee, in order to settle the work, together with Mr Van der Maelen's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u75	Madam President, I have three comments and one additional question. First of all, Mr Decrop's presentation is dismissed here as a story that is unsubstantiated and if the CHOD had to know that, then Mr Decrop would have drawn up a file and forwarded it to his hierarchy. I think this last one did happen. This has come out very clearly in the past period. I want to make the link with the November 2016 IKW note. The question arises as to whether that note is sufficiently substantiated? Mr Vansina, you have given context to the operational side of the story and the level of ambition. I think that context is relevant. You're saying that our F-16s aren't gonna pay for our operations anymore. The extension is still an option when it comes to monitoring Belgian airspace, but if we really want to do operations, we can't do it anymore. I think this is an interesting and important observation. Your conclusion is that no information has been withheld regarding Lockheed Martin's memo and all that has been communicated about it. On the basis of all the elements at our disposal, we cannot conclude that no information has been withheld. The internal investigation of Defense itself, but also the audit does not conclude that. All they're saying is that no information has been forwarded. You conclude here that no information has been withheld. From everything we've heard so far, I think we can draw the following conclusions. Firstly, the military have not informed the political level of everything in this dossier. I'm referring to the memo. I also refer to the 2015 note. I think we can say that it is not up to the military to make political choices. Mr Vansina, you have just said that the level of ambition is a matter for politics, because that is a political choice. I do not think that you should take the place of politics. The choice of the level of ambition and the choice of how to achieve this is a matter for the government, for politics and for Parliament. I just asked you about your position with regard to the ACAP team. You have made it very clear that the ACAP team is dependent on DG MR, the material manager. Last week, I heard from Chief of Staff, Compernol, that the ACAP team doesn't really have any contact with the outside world. I hear from your account that you've had sporadic contacts with that team. It seems logical to me that this service is not closed off from the outside world, but this is important with regard to the conclusion of the audit. It says that different services and people have considered separately that this information should not be forwarded. I note, however, that this has been dealt with in an arbitrary manner. Certain information has been kept to itself. I have two further comments for Mr Van de Voorde. Your position in the cabinet was very special and very clear. Some may ask questions about that. With regard to the 2015 note, you say quite clearly that the authors must have gotten the mustard from somewhere. I have still not been told in the answers where these authors got their mustard. As far as that goes, I'm still hungry. I think we should look at how we can obtain further information on this later. That information was very crucial to make a decision in the government. It is therefore important to know how these figures came about, who put those figures forward and how that note came about. You did not reply to one last point, Mr van de Voorde. The audit says that there were structural contacts between the military, the CHOD and the Ministry of Defence. On this basis, we can assume that the Cabinet must have been aware of all relevant information. In your opinion, was the cabinet aware of Lockheed Martin's memo, based on those discussions between the CHOD and the Defense Department?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u76	Mr Vansina, I have heard that, even after a few years, our F-16s are quite capable of assuming the air police. If they are able to assume the air police of a country in the Middle East, which would buy our F-16s, they are therefore quite capable of providing air police in Belgium. This cuts short of this rumor that those who are fighting today for more transparency in this F-16 market would endanger the lives of our pilots and the 11 million Belgians through them. That's not true. Mr. Van de Voorde, I have been a member of four different ministerial cabinets. I may, in terms of years, have more experience in a firm than you yourself. Your role as Chief of Staff, when you were a Chief of Staff, was to organize the team around the minister in order to ensure that the minister was at best informed in order to make decisions, to present draft decisions, which will often be endorsed by the Council of Ministers (Kern) and then, formally, by the government. In all the ministerial offices in Belgium this works in the following way: a minister has a project, in this case a note, that of 9 November 2015, written by... someone, whom you may name one day. The political responsibility is that of the minister, but the functional responsibility within the cabinet belongs to you, as the chief of staff. If this note arrives in an inter-cabinet meeting, it is because, formally, you took political responsibility that this note is presented in this discussion. These writings always go through the chief of staff, always. All governments proceed in this way. I would never have imagined, as an adviser to a cabinet, going to table anything in the government without a formal document going through the office of the Chief of Staff. It doesn't work like that in Belgium! Yes, there's smoke! Ask all the ministers of this country! I repeat: an intercabinets takes place on the basis of the note. There, the other collaborators of Mr. Michel's government ministers are kept informed of the discussions. Sometimes six, seven, eight, twelve, fifteen intercabinets take place, then a solution is found. Secondly, there is what is called at the regional level – I don't know what it is called at the federal level, but it also exists – pre-government, where the heads of cabinet of all ministers meet to try to empty the points that could not be resolved by the ministerial inter-cabinets advisors. You normally sit there. So you should have known, at least. We are not talking about the closure of the Tartempion barracks. We're talking about the market of the century. Like Mr. De Vriendt said, it's not a trivial subject. It is a subject that has a fundamental strategic impact. It was not for nothing that Mr Michel, our Prime Minister, had considered announcing something about this market precisely at the NATO summit to be held this summer in Brussels. Strategic impact, and budgetary impact, of course. Obviously, all the heads of cabinet of this government were aware of this matter, starting with you, since you are carrying it on behalf of the Minister of Defence. Finally, intercabinets, meeting of heads of cabinet, and then, Council of Ministers, of government, that is normal. Mr Van de Voorde, I do not understand how, with regard to this note which, I repeat, is imperfect, because on 11 pages out of 35 it concerns incorrect information, you have not been aware of it. I don't understand. Help us understand, because that's where the key is. There was an obvious retention of information by Colonel Letten within the Air Component. With regard to the transmission of information to the minister, I note that there has obviously been a difficulty in applying the rules that apply generally for political decision-making in a coalition government throughout Belgium in the same way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u77	Madam President, I will be brief. I am pleased that you have announced that there is a note from Lockheed Martin that can be seen, following their explanatory statement from last Wednesday. What I have heard again in plenary and here today from a number of colleagues on Thursday is not in line with what was said on Wednesday evening by the people of Lockheed Martin. They have said that I believe General Vansina has confirmed that it will be quite a challenge to allow our existing F-16s to fly 8 000 hours. This will require another soft SLEP. That's what they said here. Coming here again saying it'll be a piece of cake to fly them up to 9 500 hours, so it's wrong. I am glad that General Vansina has said once again today that it will be a challenge to allow our aircraft to fly 8 000 hours. Secondly, I thank General Van de Voorde for his honest story. It's a pity that as an ex-head of the Air Force, the cabinet didn't involve you in the replacement files. However, as you have explained, that was an agreement between you and the Minister. I still do not have an answer to the questions asked and I remain convinced that an additional feasibility study, as explained on page 14 of the November 2015 note, had made the file stronger. However, we will have to ask the authors or the minister why this feasibility study was not carried out. I agree with the sp.a's proposal to consider how we can get an answer to these questions at the next stage of the work. It is a pity that Mr Van der Maelen is gone, because I wanted to address him personally once again. Colleagues, I always have the impression that we are not only sitting here in a committee on the replacement of the F-16, but also in a committee on the F-35. For me, the F-35 here in this committee is not at all on the agenda. This is about the information we received from Lockheed Martin's F-16. That's what these hearings are about. That F-35 is a whole different file. That's what an RfGP is for. So, Madam President, I do not think we should talk about the F-35 here in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u78	Madam President, first of all, Mr Van der Maelen was the first to speak on behalf of our group. However, I have two comments to make. My first comment concerns the questions I have put to General Van de Voorde or the comments I have made on this matter. I agree with those Members who say that there are still questions about the issue. There are substantive questions, but there is also the question as to who wrote it, what its background is, which is why it is supported and why certain studies were not carried out at the time when they had to be done. Those questions still need to be answered. Secondly, something that worries me more is the next point. I am looking at Mr Vansina and Mr Roelandts. It is about the question I asked about measuring the tax on aircraft. I've indicated that a device has already been physically incorporated into it. I have also indicated that there is software, not Lockheed Martin, but Lockheed Martin has set his standards in this respect so that it can be used to the highest level. To date, however, this has not worked. I would be worried in my place, but also in your place. In your answers, you have actually indicated it yourself. After all, it was already ordered in 2017, but it still doesn't work. Last week, among others, Colonel Gates of the US Air Force noted that there must be a certain history, which was confirmed by the people of Lockheed Martin. It is necessary to predict the future EFH or equivalent flying hours and to find out what this could actually mean. Lockheed Martin's notes previously indicated that it was under 1, which would allow people to fly over 8 000 hours. Now and last week, speakers have mentioned that certain flights and certain exercises can achieve the opposite. That was reported both last week and this week. General Vansina, you explained that. After the missions, where the pressure on the planes is less than 1, they could now be reversed by exercises above 1. While previously the prediction was that possibly over 8 000 hours could be flown, this is now being questioned. Secondly, Mr Yüksel has asked if there are any other ways in which you can check the fatigue data. You have indicated that, for example, the registration of flight data by the pilots can serve this purpose. But, as you say, sometimes the heaviest load is not indicated because it is only a small fraction of the total flight. The load is then higher in a number of minutes than in an hour or an hour and a half. I would, if I were you, either start to doubt and start to worry because that software still doesn't work. The pilots, and you, as head of the Air Force, are actually flying in a grey zone if you can't predict for the future what the effective load is. Of course there are also maintenance work and various checks and so on. That's right. But I would worry in your place because that software still doesn't work. If that were not the case and everything would be fine, I would ask myself why some people question the reasoning behind drawing up the comparison with the equivalent flying hours. I have one more question for you. On today's day order, there was another one invited, General Van Caelenberge. I don't know if it's an apology.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u79	He got an apology.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u80	Madam President, I have some very important information: a new certificate of airworthiness is not necessary – as you have indicated, General Vansina – if you stay below 8 000 hours EFH (equivalent flying hours). This information is very important, because the demonstration that Lockheed Martin carried out last week was that if we wanted to extend the life of the aircraft, we had to dismantle the whole aircraft, carry out tests, have a traceability system from the beginning, etc. All this is wrong! So, we played nicely with different notions. This question is now set aside: no new certificate of airworthiness is required. It remains to be seen whether these aircraft can be updated at a lower cost by saving 900 million euros, as Colonel Decrop believes, or whether they are too old. I did not receive an answer to that question. That is why she deserves a thorough investigation and should not be swept away from the back of her hand. I can hear you, General Vansina: you say this is going to cost more and more. In the November 2015 note, I saw that 70 million euros would be needed for the renovation of these devices. However, I read that another country, whose security stakes are certainly as important as ours, Taiwan, has just embarked on a huge $3.68 billion modernization programme – at the current rate – of €3 billion. If we divide this figure by 144, the number of aircraft, that's 20 million per aircraft. That's the exact figure that Colonel Decrop quoted last week. With this programme, they will be at the best international level, particularly in terms of radar equipment and defence capability against Russian or Chinese aircraft (because they are more concerned about the latter). In short, it is the best standard, which would equip the F-35, the Eurofighter or the Rafale. We're told they're not exactly the same planes. As I do not receive this information directly from the Defence, I try to find out by visiting websites. I read that the F- 16/Block-15 OCU, called Block-20, have the capacity of the middle life update (MLU) of Belgian aircraft. In fact, in terms of capacity today, it is ours: F-16/Block-15 MLU. In any case, that's the information I manage to glean. It may not be quite accurate, but it is quite unpleasant for a parliamentarian to have to go fishing himself for information on technical issues. Every time, we get to change the playground. We are told that it is not at all F-16/Block-15 that are modernized, but actually so! We're told we need a new certificate of airworthiness, but no! Maybe we're wrong, but we're not exactly given the information to guide us. On such an important issue, it's not very pleasant. Again, I demand a serious study. I didn't get an answer. I'm told Colonel Van Pee knows the numbers very well. I am not very impressed by a few figures that have been launched, without notes, at a late hour of the evening without any documents being sent to us. When I ask Colonel Van Pee about the fact that he did not incorporate in his demonstration the cost of acquiring the F-35s, he admits it. He wants to show that buying planes is not going to cost less, but does not integrate the 4 billion of the acquisition. We're back in big approximations. I would be convinced if I did not have the impression that some are systematically disqualified, because they do not enter into the single thought while others are systematically praised because, whatever the arguments put forward, they enter into this demonstration which we want to impose on us. I am also surprised, General Van de Voorde, that you are not informed of all these matters. I'd like to believe you, but that's a little worrying. It's a major file. Is it normal for some officers in the Air Force to be a little free-wheeled and to be able to decide what they are hiding or showing, what arguments to put forward and what to hide. Beyond this, I understand that a number of people were not informed at the cabinet level. Either, but what worries me even more is that it doesn't seem to be a matter of concern. Will this be the case for all cases in the future? Will the cabinet and the minister tell us that they are not aware of anything and that it is not serious? Or will decisions be made so that, from now on, decisions of a political nature – Colonel Letten himself said – are returned to the appropriate level? General Vansina, thank you for these very illuminating explanations on the case. At the same time, if we had obtained them two or three years ago, it would have been more prudent than to receive them today under conditions that are not always very adequate. It is true that your intervention with Lockheed Martin is somewhat special. You say you're not angry and I see today that you're showing a rather serene temperament. But still! Basically, you tell them you're working on two different scripts. I would remind you that a political decision has already been taken: that is exactly what I have noted from your speech. That's the point! It would be interesting for the political level to know that there are two scenarios, that there may be an alternative and that there may be a way to save the Belgian Treasury 900 million euros while having better intervention capacities... Or maybe not! Again, I'm careful. In any case, I believe that you are intervening in a case that is not yours. You first give credit to these studies, since you say you are intervening. So, you give credit. This information is also of interest to us. We were later told that we had misinterpreted, but obviously your interpretation is the same as ours: perhaps there is a possibility of extending the life of the aircraft. You therefore give credibility to these scripts, but you intervene to say: "Listen, sorry, but a decision has already been made and I beg you not to interfere with these decisions through scripts that could cause the political level to reverse its decision". This intervention, for me, raises a question about its opportunity. Last additional question, because it is unpleasant to hear Colonel Decrop systematically hit his head by saying that he should have addressed his hierarchy. First, he spoke to her according to what some have said, but should this not also be the case of Colonel Letten, who never contacted his hierarchy, unlike Colonel Decrop, who contacted Colonel Letten? Obviously, it didn't go well. He was told, "You're hiding all this." Isn't that what Colonel Letten should say? It's curious to say the least! He was not accused of contacting Admiral Dupont at all, but of contacting other senior officers in other departments who were perhaps less directly involved. Finally, as you said, General Vansina, when you meet Colonel Van Pee, in the corridors, you ask him for information, which one can imagine. However, as far as I am concerned, when a colleague comes out of a committee meeting in camera, anxious to respect this in camera, I do not rush on him to ask him what he said. But let's admit it! What emerges in terms of the general climate is that it is a large family. Good! But the ACCaP, the Material Resources Division, your Belgian Air Force department, Lockheed Martin has known each other for a long time. They have been exchanging their views on this subject for a long time. We're together. In my view, this is probably the problem in managing this case. In fact, it is obviously difficult, when you have this kind of experience, when you have this kind of contact, when you have this kind of network, when you have this familiarity, to distance yourself from a case like that and to wonder about how to check as objectively as possible what the best plane would be, given the strategic and security stakes in Belgium. Like thinking about this question by taking a distance? This is not a criticism, but an observation that should inspire us, for the future, on how we deal with this kind of issue, especially in view of the fact that politics is clearly not part of this family. It is kept on the side, whether it is the minister's office or Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to apologize for my absence, but preparatory meetings are being held at the same time as the plenary session. But my collaborator was there. He told me that you answered many of the questions I asked you, which I thank you for. Having said that, I would first like to make a very small remark to the attention of our esteemed colleague Mr Hellings, who claimed that we were trying to blame those who want transparency for endangering the lives of the pilots. That is not the case at all. We have a different analysis of the possibility of extension. But as far as transparency is concerned, there is no reproach on our part. Moreover, we do not have the authority to do so. The question is also part of what has just been said. I would like to know your assessment of the situation of our F-16s, which will be extended until 2030 in relation to the evolution of the capacity of our opponents, and even our enemies. You mentioned the Baltic countries. It is still an extremely important mission with Russian planes "more and more invasive". You also mentioned the Syrian crisis. One F-16 was shot dead by the Syrian air defence. My question is how you assess the evolution of the enemy's or adversary's potential. Another question you may not have answered is Mr. Decrop's assertion that going from 54 to 34 devices is a significant reduction in potential and that has an impact on the workforce. But does this have an impact on our Air Force's capability.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u82	Madam President, I did not intend to speak because, given the organisation of the day, I had to sit two to three times in the Committee on the Interior and did not know all of your answers, even though my colleagues and my colleague Stéphane Crusnière reported to me. Nevertheless, I cannot remain silent, because I have a strange feeling that increases as the auditions go on. First of all, we are talking about a market of more than EUR 15 billion over several decades, of course. My first feeling is that the management of this case is done lightly at different levels and not just in your head, gentlemen. This feeling has been growing since last week, because if I think there is one area for which we should not worry in Belgium about defence, it is the smoke and the jamming of the tracks. I feel like the more we move forward, the more questions we ask and the more answers we get, the less clear it is! First of all, compared to the period prior to 2015, that is, in my opinion, the genesis of the file: I do not think I have received any reply, at this time, certifying that all the options had been studied before developing the Strategic Vision and making the decision to replace the F-16s, on the part of any of you or your predecessors. Even the Minister's responses, prior to the hearings, do not give me the certainty that all options have been studied and presented to the Minister in a costed and reasoned manner, whether they are extensions, purchases of used aircraft, etc. I have the sincere impression that my colleagues share my doubts. Then, after 2015, Lockheed Martin brings different information according to the moment and his interlocutor. So, again last week, this company explained to us that the extension was impossible. Having arrived at the time of the surgery, I realized that it might still be possible. It's not clear. How can we trust someone who does not show constant confidence in the information he gives us? There is no need for me to be told in the ranks of the MR that they are not the same planes. I understand that. That being said, I have heard that very strong aircraft like ours will be maintained in other countries. I am particularly concerned about the processing of information. We're getting reports. The minister explains to us that he did not receive any information, while the Defence stated that it had obtained it, but that it did not transmit it because the political option prevented it from being communicated. Next, Colonel Decrop was appointed on the grounds that he did not follow the line of command. I can hear that he was punished for that reason. On the other hand, I cannot hear that he did not transmit the information, since you say he did, but not by the right way. We'd have to agree. This is all part of a smoke, so no one is held responsible and the most appropriate option is still unknown. I sincerely regret that. I had expressed this fear at the beginning of the auditions. It's just growing. You are the kings of the runway jamming, but I will include myself in the lot, since I am also a member of this Parliament. No responsibility will be released: it will be everyone and no one. Finally, I still have no certainty as to whether or not to replace our fighter aircraft.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u83	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, a little preliminary clarification: I am not a king! I work for the King, but I'm not one, now you're wrong. Mr De Vriendt, I will begin with your question about the e-mail of 10 May and the discussion within the Defence Staff. I would like to repeat it once again, and I also said it to the external audit. I got that in cc. I saw it the next day or the next day, I don't know. I then proposed to Colonel Letten to discuss that in the run-up to the Steering Committee F-16 at the end of May. That's what happened. There's that Steering Committee hasn't said a word about it, Colonel Mariën can confirm it. So that was really not important to me and that was the end of it for me. Mr Van der Maelen spoke about prices per flight time of all kinds of aircraft. I would be very careful with that, from my experience. In 2006 or 2007 I had to make all kinds of calculations for someone regarding the cost of one hour of F-16 and the cost of one hour of B-Hunter. That person couldn't believe an hour of B-Hunter is more expensive than an hour of F-16. I've had to count staff, maintenance contracts and investments. Each time, an hour of F-16 cost less than an hour B-Hunter. That makes sense, an F-16 flies more, a B-Hunter flies little. So one has to take a good look at what one uses in the calculation of a flying hour. That is why it is important to always know the context and the full picture instead of just putting numbers on the table to discuss it. Mr Yüksel, you said that the military should not do politics. Of course, I fully agree with that. But I cannot get rid of the impression that last week in this Chamber Colonel Decrop did a bit of politics. One of the arguments for his plan B was that he wants 54 aircraft to remain, for an ambition level of 10, to keep so many pilots and technicians. However, we are moving towards an ambition level of 6, as stated by General Vansina. If someone's trying to do politics, maybe it's him and it's not us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u84	I would first like to respond to Mr Van der Maelen's comments. The atmosphere is always created as if the air force would only want fifth generation F-35s. I've outlined the Area Access/Area Denial environment, because that's a reality. Those zones are developing. I have mentioned the geographical areas where they are now and those very capable weapons systems are proliferating. They're sold to all kinds of countries. This means that in the coming years we will see an increase in these systems: very capable ground-to-air missiles S300, S400 and the family of fighter planes Soe-30 and Soe-35. We will see them more and more, in certain countries in North Africa, in the Middle East. We see them already in Russia and with his allies. Perhaps the next professors are more educated in this area than I am and they will be able to express their opinion on it, but as I analyse things, I think that Europe will be more and more surrounded by those kinds of technologically highly capable systems. Mr Van der Maelen stated that only a fifth generation F-35 aircraft can pass through it. I do not agree with that at all. There are two ways to tackle such areas, namely reduced detection by the shape of the aircraft, or by electronic warfare. That is to say that the radar of modern aircraft has the capacity to carry out a so-called electronic attack and can emit a level of interference energy so that all radar systems that observe the aircraft are, as it were, blinded by that so-called noise. To say that one always needs a stealth plane to operate in certain very heavily defended zones, no-go zones, is not correct. There are two ways: stealth by shape, but there is also the electronic attack, with a radar that also allows to operate in such zones for a certain time. As far as Mr Vanschoenwinkel's e-mail is concerned, I would first like to clarify something. Mr Vanschoenwinkel is a former colleague, not a former employee. You should ask him why he sent me that e-mail. I can't help being sent e-mails. As I indicated in my introduction, I am, whether I like it or not, the face of the Air Force, of the Air Component at home and abroad. So I get all kinds of things in my mailbox. All kinds of people think they should give me their opinion. That's about replacing the F-16, that's about our operations. In this case, it was a parliamentary question. It's about all kinds of things. I treat those opinions as I think I should. In this case, I forwarded it to those of whom I thought he would answer that parliamentary question. I was wrong, because it is actually DG MR that answers those kinds of questions, not the ACAP team. I get an e-mail every few minutes and I've probably gone through the curve by sending it to Colonel Van Pee. I should have sent it to the people of DG MR. As I said, there is often little time and the workload is high. Just like as guidance, for your information, I had here the Recipient better be able to choose. With regard to what Mr Van der Maelen says about savings, there begins of course again an interpretation of the numbers. The analysis of the tenders is now under way. It's done by specialists. I am sure that the correct figures will be analysed there and then the report with the full conclusions of all those experts will go to the Minister and the Government. Everyone magics with numbers, but eventually the constructors have put forward numbers at their best and final sacrifices. The team that's working on that will be able to interpret it. Mr De Vriendt, I explained the timeline around my contacts with Lockheed Martin in 2016. I'm not gonna repeat that. Why did I contact you? Eventually, we're customers. The operational side of the Air Force is a customer there. For the sake of the safety of the pilots and the technicians for which I am responsible, I would like to know the technical health of all our aircraft. We're talking about the F-16, of course. I can assure you that I am equally involved in the evolution of the A400 that is coming, or the NH90. For each aircraft I wish to be kept informed of the technical condition and intentions of the manufacturer in relation to that aircraft. That interests me, when a constructor intends to build aircraft longer or less long or for other countries and so on. With this I can build up an image and give the equipment managers operational advice. Just for accuracy, Lockheed was at that time not pushing forward a lifetime extension, as you put it. That's not correct. I was informed about lifetime studies and I just wanted to know what the fork was like.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u85	Can you explain to me why you thought you were reacting at that time? After all, that is information that distorted the government's decision. You agree with that. It was an offer to stay in the air longer than originally foreseen. You will take your phone and contact Lockheed Martin yourself. In the other two cases where you receive a message about this dossier, either from the current member of the N-VA or from Lockheed Martin again in May 2017 with the force structure projection for the Belgian fleet, why do you not contact yourself and do not take an action yourself, but at the time?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u86	We are in a completely different phase. In the spring of 2016 we are "I think Colonel Van Pee described the last week "in a prospecting phase." We are all trying at that moment, each in our domain, to form a correct picture of the replacement of the F-16: where are we going, what are the candidates, what can they do? There is indeed that contact with Lockheed, but I also have contacts with my foreign colleagues, with academics, with all stakeholders in connection with the case. In Lockheed's case, but there have also been contacts with other manufacturers, I wanted to know clearly for myself what was their intention. I wanted to know that for myself so I could make my own picture. I thought that was important, because, once again, we are the end user. That also answers your follow-unquestion. In connection with the risk assessments, we operate over the Baltic states. The intention is, of course, that everything goes well there. They are young people, both in our cockpits and in the cockpits of Russian aircraft, and the intention is not, of course, to provoke incidents or even to have incidents or to start a new conflict. Our F-16 is capable of operating there as long as everything is disciplined and there are no surprises. The day that four Suchoj-35s arrive there with bad intentions, identify our F-16s and follow an air fight, I am absolutely not convinced that our F-16s will win, quite the contrary. Our planes are overloaded on all domains by that type. That is not the intention, of course, and I assume that it is not the intention of the opponent, the Russians, at the time. They want to underline a number of geostrategic interests. We're intercepting them. It happens professionally. I come to the statement about the level of ambition. I didn't say we'd want to fight the Russians. Those are words you put in my mouth. That is absolutely not the case. The level of ambition is determined by the political government. If the political government decides that the Belgian Air Force will only protect the airspace above Belgium, then so be it. No problem at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u87	I didn't say you said that, but you turned our F-16s against those high-quality Russian planes. That comparison comes from no one on this side of the room. You made it. You've turned the two planes against each other. That is your deliberate choice to compare our F-16s with such a device. As far as the operation above the Baltics is concerned, you have given the impression that such operations are not obvious to our F-16s, in the state in which they are located, in the event of such a threat. You have given the advice that the operation could continue, knowing that there is a threat. The air-policing over the Baltics is not without risk. Our F-16s seem to be able to handle that right now. This is important to take along, especially since the upgrade, definitely in 2017, is still ongoing and has not yet been finalized. Our F-16s will be more modern and better than today in the coming months and years. That's a science, isn't it? It's obvious, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u88	Thank you for that clarification. I did mention the last generation of Russian aircraft, because we will also encounter them. That's not our choice. That's Russia's choice to station those planes there and make sure we meet them there. That's not our wish. We'll just run into them. It's my assessment that they're planes of a much more modern generation. If we ever had to do something about it, it would be a very difficult task. Again, the F-16s are maintained with the modifications that are planned, but also no more than that. Mr Yüksel, perhaps I did not express myself clearly. You say our F-16s are no longer adequate. I find that conclusion to be rather short-sighted. They meet in certain scenarios, if we can take some precautions. For example, if there is another conflict tomorrow, type of Afghanistan, with only a small-caliber threat, then we can operate there again, if we can stay up there. I want there to be no misunderstanding about that. I repeat the words of the Chief of Defense, that the choice of the person responsible for not passing on the force structure projection was justifiable. Again with regard to my contacts with the ACAP team, specifically the leader, Colonel Van Pee. As I said, these contacts are sporadic. Another person said he was coming out of a meeting and I was chasing him to get information. That's not correct. When I meet Colonel Van Pee, I come across him by chance in our small building. I ask him how things are going, just as I ask the same question when I happen to meet the commander of the second Wing of Florennes. It's the same level of interaction. I further point out that at the ACCaP level, as an operational commander, I have no view of the offers and am not involved in the analysis. Mr Top, you are asking several very technical questions about taxation and the flying hours. In my view, it is best placed on the technical experts of DG MR, because they manage this matter on a daily basis. I think they gave detailed explanations in this committee last week. I've wanted to give you a message, since we're in training mode now, that the planes are now being taxed much harder. The projection of fatigue will probably shift more towards the theoretical model in the future. The margin, which was set at six years, is likely to decrease. Mr Dallemagne, you are talking again about Taiwanese F-16s with numbers. Again, I repeat what I said and what General Ocula also said: it is very, very dangerous to compare planes. Some aircraft have had some modifications, whether structural or operational; others may be almost identical but not entirely identical. Again, this is a subject that specialists manage within DG MR and it is also, I believe, a question that could be asked, through them, in Lockheed in order to know exactly, in the case of the Taiwanese F-16s, what has been done to keep them in operational condition. Mr Miller, I answered the questions and I traced – I think you were absent at that time – a little bit of the history of the F-16 engagement, and I will not repeat it if you allow me, starting from the air war over Kosovo, then Afghanistan, Libya and operations from the Middle East. What I wanted to stress is that I agree with the study by the US Air Force, made available alongside the two audits, which says that the F-16s are still quite capable of making the air police of the Belgian sky or the Benelux. But as soon as we rise above that as a level of ambition, we really need measures to ensure the safety of our pilots. If the threat is small caliber, we can be above, but if we are called upon to operate close to, or even nothing in, these areas, let's call them that, the equipment of our F-16s is no longer enough at all. We need new aircraft that have new performance, especially in radar and this electronic attack capability to enable our pilots to carry out their missions in a completely correct manner. I also want to point out that the opponent – let's take the Russians – is not unemployed! We saw, for example, the Russian Air Force during the conflict over Georgia in 2008 where they used fighters such as Soukhoi-27 at low speed and low altitude as a means of observation. I can assure you that they have learned the lessons from the use of the air weapon by the West and have made tremendous progress. They are just as capable as we are from the operator's point of view. They have state-of-the-art systems that are worth everything we manufacture in the West. With regard to the comment on the level of ambition that had fallen from 54 to 34 aircraft, it was a political decision to buy 34 aircraft. I will not comment on this, but it is clear that with 54 aircraft, there is a way to keep 10 of them permanently abroad in operations and to do the national sky police. If we have 34, these ten planes abroad will be only six, since even if they are more efficient planes, there will still be a drastic reduction in the number, which will allow to keep six planes abroad permanently and no longer ten.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u89	I would like to respond briefly to the handling of the e-mail, without repeating it. I would like to emphasise two elements. I said that one should not consider the mail of 10 May in isolation but should look at it together with the mail of 19 May. Those two e-mails together are without subject and therefore are no reason for me to send something to a higher level anyway. The strict separation of functions has its reasons. I do wear "coincidentally" the blue uniform, but I do handle the contracts for all colors and for all components. So I have to stick to that separation of functions, for everyone in the same way. This separation of functions serves to avoid problems as we have known them in the past. That's very important. This also answers the question raised by the EGI, who is once again asking for my separation from my duties. However, I will not do that. That's very dangerous. We can't give in to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u90	That's very dangerous, you say. This is what you call a possible reaction from you between May 10th and May 19th. You say there was a second, more nuanced e-mail on May 19th. I asked you if you did anything between May 10th and May 19th? The answer is no. You could not know on 10 May or 11 May that the mail of 19 May would follow. In fact, you had nine days to do something with the information you had obtained. You didn't do that. You're saying that exceeding the right to function is very dangerous within the Defense Department. I think it's a problem that you, as an important person within the Defense Department, as a general major, consider that to be very dangerous. I believe that a major-general has a responsibility towards the Defense Department in its globality. I'm not making any further statements. I say that with all due respect, but I don't think a major general should consider it dangerous to do anything with sensitive information that reaches him.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u91	My final comment was about the separation of functions in general. Technical issues and the need assessment must not be mixed with the contractual aspect. That is what I said. You make me repeat myself, but I told you that I knew after the e-mail of 10 May that this had not yet been discussed internally and that I had to wait. I made that clear earlier. I would like to say very clearly: the separation of functions is there for certain reasons. History proves it. If the need assessment and the technical aspect are given into the same hands as those who have to prepare and execute the contract, then there are quite different problems. That's all I wanted to explain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u92	In fact, I can only repeat what method has been imposed on me, with the consequences that I was not involved in this dossier. As for the questions on the future of the cabinet, I believe they should be put to the minister. I'm no longer a member of the firm. It may be useful to ask that question again to the Minister who made that decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u93	Thank you, General. Colonel Marien, is there anything you'd like to add?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u94	No, thank you, ma'am, I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u95	Mr. Top, you have one more question. May I ask you to be brief? The Court of Auditors has also arrived in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u96	You bring up the Court of Auditors, but it would have been better if the Court of Auditors had already been involved in this matter. It's okay. It's okay. It is the legislative power that the Court of Auditors can instruct to join.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u97	Mr Top, you may ask later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u98	Why do I say that? I say this because Mr Ocula made the comparison between a drone and an F-16 in the calculation of cost. I would like to point out that the figures I quoted last week and my colleague this afternoon are validated cost prices. It's about airfares, just to be clear. It's about the F-16, and I'm more and more asking myself if some things have been validated. The cost was explained by the Minister in response to an oral question by Mr Van der Maelen. It is therefore a correct cost. I have to establish that. I'm not making comparisons based on numbers that I've randomly removed from the Internet. Secondly, the cost of the F-35 is to my mind also a validated cost per full flight hour. This has been checked and followed up in a country where the Court of Auditors was involved in the work, namely in the Netherlands. My question to the following speakers will be whether the Court of Auditors can bring added value when comparing figures. General Vansina, you're trying to put words in my colleague's mouth that he hasn't spoken. He didn't say it's just a fifth-generation plane that can operate. He tried to prove the opposite by pointing out that in the interventions two weeks ago in Syria, American F-16s were equipped with a joint air to surface stand-off missile with extended range, which, according to you, just bypassed that notorious, S300 and S400 air defense of the Russians and the Area Access/Area Denial. That is exactly what you have shown that this F-16 can be equipped with. You are trying to put words in my colleague's mouth that are wrong. If someone is being put in their mouths, I would like to quote from De Standaard of late December 2017. You have indicated that only the F-35 offers the invisibility on the radar: "Simple, with stealth, the pilot has a better chance of coming back. Being less visible is an indispensable advantage. This can be done by the shape of the apparatus" stealth, as you have indicated "or by electronic jammers." Then who put the fifth generation in the mouth? Not my colleague, just to be clear. One final question to General Van de Voorde. I understand that you have neither held the pen nor approved the November 2015 IKW note. I suppose if the note goes to the working group, it will be validated. Then who validated it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic876x.u99	Gentlemen, does anyone wish to add anything to this? [[No.]] Then I would like to thank you for coming here on a voluntary basis and for having answered all the questions in detail.
