ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u1	Mr President, a new year of work, but the questions will always deal with the same problems as those of SNCB. Mr Minister, there is a mention of the frequent dumping I use that word deliberately by travellers at Denderleeuw station. This happens when a train leaves Brussels with delay, in order to speed up its drive towards Ghent and get to De Panne in time. I have already asked written questions about this in the spring, but it happened again several times in week 27, in full rush. This is particularly frustrating for travellers who have to leave the train in Denderleeuw with delay and see their delay time increase. That procedure would be applied in order to avoid a snowball effect on delays, as is always reported. How often has the train to De Panne since 1 January 2018 dropped off all passengers in Denderleeuw due to delay? Can't this particularly customer-unfriendly procedure be avoided? For example, can an underlying train pass somewhere on that route so that the train can continue its normal stops with delay? What measures can passengers expect? Will you ask SNCB to avoid this procedure and limit it to what is absolutely essential? Do travellers receive compensation in such a situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me that during rush hour only two P trains depart from Brussels to De Panne and that these trains do not run through Denderleeuw's station. SNCB denies that it would dump passengers in the event of a delay. In addition, SNCB argues that those two trains were not reduced or abolished at any time in week 27, the period from 2 to 6 July. SNCB informs me that it will not be able to provide any more answers to the situation you are describing. SNCB adds that it always examines the delay of its trains and offers solutions where possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u3	I wonder, Minister, who will give you these answers to SNCB? Several travelers have repeatedly shown me, also with photos, how they are obliged to get off in Denderleeuw. After that, the train goes straight on. Those travelers will have to wait for another train. If SNCB says this is not happening, that is not true, Minister. I would like to ask you to give further information, including at the Denderleeuw station and at the many travellers. In future, I will also send all the messages I receive directly to your cabinet, because the answer that SNCB has given to you is really not correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u4	If it is possible to obtain the photos, I will forward them to SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u5	Mr President, Minister, since the opening of the new Guillemins station a few years ago, we had, among the shops inside the station, La Cucina, which served coffees, pastries and sandwiches. He was almost the only independent-SME alongside chains in this station. On 5 August 2017, SNCB launched a call for tenders for the renewal of the space lease, to which the manager of La Cucina replied. Without news, he thought he had obtained the extension of his contract. But in December 2017, he received a letter from SNCB announcing the cancellation of the August call for tenders, without further explanation. At the beginning of 2018, SNCB launched a new call for tenders: it participated again, with an even better offer from SNCB. In July, he learned that he had not won the market and that he had to leave space by August 31. Minister, how do you explain the lack of transparency in this call for tenders? An independent craftsman took the risk of settling in a beginner station. The case turned out well in view of the quality of the service. When this goes well, calls for tenders are launched, which the merchant cannot respond to. A new channel takes over. I have nothing against the Déli chain or the quality of its products but it seems to me that having only chains in all the stations of the SNCB is an impressive fact. How is the invitation to tender so non-transparent? Does SNCB have a desire to favour large brands rather than local shops?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u6	Dear colleague, SNCB informs me that commercial concessions at SNCB stations are awarded on the basis of a tender for an eight-year contract, a tender governed by law, including the transparency of the acts rendered. At the end of the eight years, SNCB is relaunching a call for tenders and may, on that occasion, decide to modify the commercial offer. The invitation to tender shall contain a precise specification enabling the various candidates to submit an informed tender. In the specific case you refer to in your question, SNCB assures me that all procedures have been followed and that the principles of transparency and equality have been respected. She adds that many communications and meetings have taken place between SNCB's services and the dealer you are quoting. According to SNCB, the new concession will also offer a quality assortment in the spirit of a fine grocery store.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u7	Minister, I expected this answer: the SNCB will say that it did the right thing. That said, beyond this statement – and indeed, the discussions and meetings did not fail, with important price awards given the quality and the fact that this trade was working well – what is surprising is that there was no writing that explains why, during the August 2017 tender, those who bid did not get an answer, why there was a new tender and why it was refused. I find that this is not transparency, nor equality. When the criteria and arguments are given, it is obviously appropriate to accept them. But that's it: he's an independent, so he gave up, not wanting to go to court for lack of strong kidneys, unlike a commercial chain. And so he's going to have to do another activity. For me, it is surprising that in the various stations, few independents and SMEs in the food sector are able to occupy this type of space. It seems to me that these are choices and orientations that are unfavourable to the commercial fabric that we would also like to maintain in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u8	Mr President, Minister, services to people with reduced mobility have often been mentioned here. In this context, I was contacted on a specific case. And since I'd like to get an answer from you soon, I'm going to ask this question orally. A study I have carried out shows that there are standards for persons in electric wheelchairs in the sense that the maximum weight of the person with the wheelchair is 300 kg, that the maximum allowed width is 75 cm and that the maximum length is 120 cm. Some wheelchairs exceed these standards, especially in terms of length. These wheelchairs are slightly longer and can easily be operated by the users themselves. However, its users are excluded from the service provided by SNCB. The explanation for this is that the above conditions are linked to the limitations of the ramp plates. The ramps would not be suitable for a longer wheelchair. Mr Secretary, when were these ramps purchased? How long is their lifespan? When will they be replaced? Can other ramps possibly be purchased so that a larger group of electric wheelchair users can take the train? Perhaps they can, via suitable ramps, with relatively little help themselves get on the train with their wheelchair.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the ramps to help customers with reduced mobility on the train have been purchased since 2006. Its lifetime is estimated at 20 years. In this respect, European standards on technical specifications interoperability 2008/164/EC and 1300/2014 should be respected. These standards apply not only to loading ramps but also to rolling stock and part of the station infrastructure. So it's not just the ramps that cause some wheelchairs not to be able to get on the train. The ramps only connect the station infrastructure to the rolling stock. It is therefore not the case that in the future, should SNCB buy larger ramps, larger electric wheelchairs would arrive on the train. This will only be possible if rolling stock and station infrastructure allow it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that finding a solution is not obvious and that it is an en-en-story. That is why I ask you to use the station infrastructure itself, not just on the ramps to the train, and to ensure that our services are adapted to people with disabilities. If it is true that wheelchairs are getting longer and longer, it would be a pity that people with disabilities fall off the boat because of our infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u11	Minister, the Dutch infrastructure manager is going to consider a number of yellow paints to increase safety. A pilot project has shown that a yellow crossing is much more visible, allowing road users to cross more alertly. I have a few questions on this, Minister. Is Infrabel aware of that project? Is it planning a similar experiment on the Belgian railway network? What amount has Infrabel invested in improving safety in the last five years? What exactly was that amount spent on? What is the evolution of the number of accidents considered over the past five years? Last year, Infrabel itself started considering a pilot project with flash cameras. What is the status of this project? Are there any results and will the project be expanded? Finally, another means used against track runs is the so-called trip mats or anti-trespass panels. How many reflections have been equipped with this? Is Infrabel planning an extension of this and, if so, for which consideration?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u12	Mr Raskin, within the framework of a benchmark with ProRail and through an international working group at UIC International, Infrabel was informed about the test project to paint a cross-yellow to increase safety. A crossing was tested for a month and a half and then re-equipped in the original condition. ProRail is currently evaluating the measure. Infrabel organises an annual multidisciplinary working group considering. During this working group, several road safety experts, the road manager, the police, the FPS Mobility, research bodies, will come together to come up with new ideas that could help to improve safety. At the multidisciplinary working group considering 2018, which will continue this year in November, ProRail will come forward with his latest safety ideas, including the yellow painted road. The members of the working group will then give their opinion. Infrabel has invested around EUR 30 million per year in improving safety in the last five years. As an annex, I give you the figures for the last five years and the evolution of the number of accidents to consider. The feasibility study on red light cameras to consider is ongoing. Infrabel has launched a pilot project in Flanders and a pilot project in Wallonia. The tests will only start after Infrabel has received the model approval certificate and the calibration certificates of the cameras. The file is currently being examined by the federal government concerned. Infrabel will let me know that she will communicate at the appropriate time. As the pilot project in Waver produced excellent results, Infrabel decided to equip 70 railway crossings where a large number of trespassing cases occur, with trip mats. At the end of 2017, 13 railway crossings were equipped with trip mats. In 2018, 14 railway crossings will be equipped with this. The list of railway crossings equipped with trip mats in 2018 can be found in the Annex. The other railway crossings shall be equipped with trip mats in step and according to the available resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u13	Mr President, Minister, first of all I would like to thank you for the annexes to the figures. We'll watch them quietly. I also understand that not all the conclusions of the Dutch project are yet clear and that the own working group will be informed. Then we will be able to follow up the dossier here in the House. I understand the same for the flash camera project that is still going on and on which we can expect more information at a later stage. The other results can be found in the figures in the annexes. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u14	Mr President, Minister, in response to previous questions, SNCB said that the M7 trains will be delivered systematically from September 2018 and that they will mainly be deployed on rail lines of the north-south link. The capacity argument is put forward for this. Now that it is almost the end of September, it is desirable to gain more insight into the deployment of the new train equipment. Hence the following questions, Minister. Is the delivery of the M7 trains on schedule? In other words, have the first devices been delivered? What is the complete planning of delivery? On which railway lines and from when will the new train equipment be used?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u15	Minister, I would like to add my voice to the questions put by Mrs De Coninck. It is now September 2018 and the first M7 double deckers would now be delivered. What is the status of this delivery? Will the first trains be delivered this month? When does the six-month test period start to run for feedback to the manufacturer? How will the train equipment be tested? Does this happen by using the trains within the existing timetable, with or without passengers on board? The Bombardier consortium fulfilled the agreements made so far. This seems important to me in view of the fine clauses included in the contract. Everything's going according to plan? Finally, here's one more thing. We read in De Tijd that SNCB wants the trains to run within a year. How many trains will it be about? Has it been decided on which lines these trains will be used and what shift of existing equipment will this result in? Will train equipment be removed from circulation when the M7 trains start to run? If so, which one? Then what are the plans with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u16	Colleagues, SNCB informs me that since April 2018, on the Belgian rail network under the direction of the manufacturers, the M7 carriages have been subject to numerous validation and accreditation tests. As always with the development and production of new trains, operational problems emerge at the start and are then addressed together with the manufacturers. In early September 2018, SNCB received a formal letter from the manufacturers with a new indicative assessment of the planning. The launch of the series was scheduled to take place in December 2018, rather than in September 2018, which is a four-month delay. In this letter, the manufacturers also informed SNCB that the actual series production could start with a total delay of six months. This means another two months more delay than before the start-up of the preseries. It goes without saying that all contractual stages and provisions will continue to apply. Any late delivery of contractual deliverables at the different milestones immediately results in payment of the contractually committed amounts later. Any fines for late delivery are, of course, only applicable to the physical delivery of the carriages, i.e. at the earliest from December 2018, according to the manufacturer's above mentioned letter. SNCB guarantees that it will keep a very close watch on all the activities of the manufacturer and will support him wherever possible. SNCB argues that the precise allocation of the M7 equipment has not yet been established, but that since the start of the project it is clear that priority will normally be used for the most heavily loaded trains and lines, in particular for the services using the north-south link. The passenger equipment that will be taken out of circulation first are the M4 sets and the dual motor sets. The locomotives that will be taken out of circulation first are those of type 22 and 27.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u18	I am happy to endorse that, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u19	Mr President, Minister, on 23 July 2015, the Court adopted a resolution to allow the Court of Auditors to evaluate the implementation of railway management contracts. Our intention was, with the layout of the new management agreement in mind, to see how the previous one was evaluated. We received the report from the Court of Auditors on 27 January 2016. There were some very remarkable findings in it. One of the notable passages was the following about internal control at HR Rail: "The Court of Auditors notes that the processes that HR Rail manages are not covered by internal audit assignments. No structure was developed for this purpose by HR Rail and no agreement was reached in this respect with SNCB and with Infrabel. The Court recommends that the management bodies of HR Rail organise an internal audit function, either through a specific service or by relying on the capacities of SNCB, Infrastructure or an external service provider." In other words, there is insufficient internal control of the operation of HR Rail. Stories that reach me confirm that, too. This report is now 2.5 years old. An update on the follow-up and implementation of this Recommendation is more than necessary. That is why I have the following questions to ask you, Minister. Does HR Rail now have an internal audit function, either through a specific service or by relying on the capabilities of SNCB, Infrastructure or an external service provider? If not, why not? What initiatives have been taken to establish such an internal audit function? Do you consider it necessary for HR Rail to have such an internal audit function?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, HR Rail informs me that it continues to call on the audit services of SNCB and Infrabel to prevent public funds being wasted on overlapping functions. In this way, HR Rail uses the competences present in the services of the other two entities in the most responsible way possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u21	Mr President, Minister, that answer makes sense when it comes to the employees of SNCB and Infrabel themselves, but what about HR Rail employees? After all, there is still no person of trust or anything like that for those people. That's a gap, isn't it? The Court of Auditors' recommendation is therefore not yet complied with.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u22	Mr President, Minister, before the summer recess I asked you whether Infrabel would release the necessary resources for the abolition of a series of considerations in Bilzen and Diepenbeek. It is a project in which the abolition is necessary, so that the Spartacus rapid tram between Hasselt and Maastricht can be put into operation. In your reply a few weeks ago, you made it clear that the current investment plan does not provide the means to do so. That answer was somewhat surprising, even to your Flemish colleague, Minister Weyts. He therefore, as I understand it, took the initiative of a meeting with the representatives of Infrabel and your cabinet. In doing so, the railway manager was instructed to examine what resources could be made available in order to close the nine plans on that tram line. My specific questions are as follows. Can you explain more about the assignment assigned to Infrabel? When can we expect clarity about this? It would amount to almost EUR 20 million. Do you think it's possible to clear that amount? Will this not be at the expense of other planned projects? Finally, the speed tram should be running from 2023. Will that timing, depending on what Infrabel will do, be achieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u23	Mr President, Mr Raskin, Infrabel was asked to make an estimate of the budget necessary for the abolition of the plans on the L34 rail line along the Spartacus tram line in the municipalities of Diepenbeek and Bilzen. This shows that the cost of Infrabel would be EUR 19.8 million. No budget has been entered for the project in the 2017-2020 Multiannual Investment Plan approved by the Infrabel Board. The project is also not part of the Flemish priority rail projects, which are included in the executive cooperation agreement on strategic rail investment between the federal and Flemish authorities at the request of the Flemish Government. However, I am prepared to work with Infrabel to find a solution. That is why, at the end of June 2018, Infrabel proposed to the Flemish Minister of Mobility a number of alternative funding opportunities, such as a shift in the budgets for the abolition of consideration on other railway lines, which are part of the Flemish railway priorities and for which Flemish co-financing is foreseen. Depending on the choice of the Flemish minister, which is not yet known, Infrabel can then assess the impact on the planning and timing of the various projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u24	Thank you for your clear answer, Minister. I understand that Infrabel's alternative proposal will only affect similar projects for the abolition of consideration rather than for other projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u25	Mr Minister, we have reached the umpteenth chapter of the now lingering and heavy dossier on the routes. The Brussels court decided that by 17 September a State General should be appointed on the routes to and from Zaventem Airport. These consultations should lead to an opinion on the routes, on the long-term flight law and on a pact on the future of Brussels Airport. Now it turns out that you're gonna drop this sentence right next to you until after the local elections. You have provided further information on this in the press. However, we are increasingly wondering whether you will put this next to you until after the federal elections. I've been saying this for a long time. I have a strong impression that you want to move the hot potato to your successor. That scenario seems to be getting more and more true. According to the same judgment in which the State General was imposed, according to paragraph 7, provision should also be made for the cessation of the introduction of the Leuven Straightway route, introduced on 6 March 2014 and within 90 weeks. But you do not give any impetus to this either. You do not appeal the judgment, but you do not enforce it. This is below all levels for a government that has a mouthful of good governance. Do you intend, as imposed by the court, to abolish Leuven Straight ahead and return to the historical route? If not, why not? What reasons do you have for placing a judge's decision next to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u26	I refer to the answer I gave to your oral question No 10 July 2018. 26514. Until further notice, there are no new elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u27	No new elements, Minister? Isn't arrest a new element? A judgment that you, as a government, are just sitting next to you, is not a new element?! This is below all levels. The fact that the government is simply dismissing this judgment is not enough, and the fact that you are getting rid of it in this way is also not enough. This is really unseen, du jamais vu. Nothing is being done and you don't even think it's necessary to explain it anymore. That's what I understand here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u28	Minister, I do not have to explain it to you, on the coast we are dealing with a problem of transmigrants. Everyone does what they have to do to make sure the problems don't get bigger. Rail infrastructure is an important part of the port of Zeebrugge, it enters the port area and the port companies. Transmigrants like to use this infrastructure to get into businesses and make the crossing to the UK. If everyone has to protect themselves, then of course Infrabel must also do so. Infrabel must ensure that the climbs in the port area are not possible by rail. Hence my questions to you, Minister. What is Infrabel currently doing in Zeebrugge to secure its domains against transmigrants? What additional measures can be taken? You also saw that a nine-point plan was put forward by the government last week. Other cases are also under way. Has there been any consultation in that framework? Was there any thought on how to work with Infrabel for security? What consultation is there between the FPS Home Office and Infrabel about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u29	My dear colleague, Infrabel is taking the following measures. Infrabel is represented by the Chief Security Officer on the Local Maritime Security Committee in Zeebrugge, which means that there is a consultation with all players on the ground. The nine-point plan was dealt with, as were practical matters that are being carried out and planned in response to the above-mentioned consultations. Infrabel will clean up the site for the connection of the company P&O, so that all unnecessary material is removed. It's mostly small, loose parts. From 21 September 2018, in consultation with Securail and Lineas, Infrabel provided for a surveillance of the terrain, in the time fork within which trains are expected. A surveillance camera type (...) will be provided as soon as possible, so that the site will be under camera surveillance. Infrabel takes the lead in the dialogue between the different players, with the aim of setting up targeted actions in which everyone takes responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u30	Mr President, Minister, thank you for reassuring me. It is true that on the spot, of course, everyone is starting to look at each other. Companies make big investments to secure their domains. People are looking at the government. If there is a public undertaking there, the same investments are actually expected. The on-site surveillance, which apparently is started today, setting up cameras and making sure there's nothing loose on the premises... this will help a lot. Thank you very much for your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u31	Minister, Infrabel recently announced a project in which sheep and goats will be used to maintain difficult access to railways. The aim is, of course, to protect nature by making as little use as possible of mowers and pesticides. I have a few questions about this. Does this specific project fall within the activities of the working group set up within Infrabel to look for sustainable alternatives to weed control on the rail network? Have any other initiatives emerged from this working group? What else is planned? In the meantime, has the working group completed its action plan? When can we expect this action plan here?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u32	Dear colleague, the sheep grazing project was launched at the initiative of Infrabel from the objectives set out in the 2018-2020 environmental policy plan for the protection of biodiversity. The aim is to maintain the verges in an ecological way as an alternative to the mechanical maintenance at locations where it is operational and financially appropriate. The cost depends on the financial feasibility model per location. In Mice, sheep maintenance costs EUR 1 000 per hectare and not EUR 1 000 per year. In the financial feasibility model, the fence of the site is also charged by Infrabel. No pesticides are applied to the verges. The working group on alternatives to weed control focuses on pesticide-free maintenance of the tracks and other sites linked to railway operation such as signalling chains, ICT installations and traction substations. Infrabel investigated the feasibility of alternative techniques for weed-free maintenance for the spores and other sites. These pilot projects will result in a technical-economic feasibility study. The report of the working group on sustainable alternatives to weed control was prepared and will be delivered to the Chamber of Representatives by the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u33	Mr President, Minister, if I understand you correctly, the grazing project is not directly related to the work of that working group. This is mainly an alternative to mechanical maintenance. The working group is gradually ending its work. May I conclude, since I have also understood that the report is being communicated to this House before the end of this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u34	Minister, the same questions continue to be raised in this new parliamentary year of work, particularly with regard to punctuality and the number of trains that have been abolished. Infrabel recently published her monthly punctuality report. For August 2018, the conclusion was that the trains were again slower than last year, but the worst thing is that this trend continues and that the punctuality during the last 12 months was also worse than last year. The number of abandoned trains was also remarkably high. I have included tables in the question I tabled. This shows a monthly sharp increase in the number of abandoned trains. In this House, there has been a lot of talk about punctuality in the last 20 years, but my question is why so many trains are being abolished. I would like to say that abolishing trains is cheaper, because only 30% of the path fee will have to be paid. For a train that is far too late, the full pot has to be paid. Minister, how do you explain that punctuality deteriorates month after month? We have discussed measures such as the identification of punctuality managers and campaigns against tracks and consideration of safety. Were they evaluated? What is its impact on punctuality? So I have already mentioned the cause by third parties, but another element is defective equipment. Are there any improvements at that point? To what extent does the defective equipment weigh in the poor punctuality figures? As far as the management contract is concerned, we found in 2011 that the level of ambition was 92 percent. How much has it become now? Eighty-five percent? How can the abolished trains be explained? What are the reasons for that? Is it true that only 30% of the path fee must be paid to Infrabel when a train is abolished? To what extent does this have a perverse effect on the high number of abolitions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u35	This question was combined with a question from Mr Devin, but he is not present. So I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, various factors determine the punctuality and robustness of the transport plan: the performance of rolling stock and of the infrastructure components; the available capacity works; external factors such as meteorological conditions, person collisions, cable theft, delays, etc.; delays of freight operators on the network; real-time traffic management and incident management. The punctuality recorded over the past period is indeed insufficient. The main causes of the problem are the following: - the number of incidents of road intrusion and the number of collisions of people who remain very high; - delays in our neighbours are increasing significantly (foreign companies); - the excessive number of incidents related to both rolling stock and rail infrastructure, such as technical disruptions to equipment (axle meters, level crossings and switches, catenary damage), and the simultaneous planning of work carried out by Infrabel in various locations resulting in operating restrictions and speed reductions; - the extremely hot weather conditions of recent months. However, by analysing the evolution of the volumes of delays since 2014, for the period from January to August included, we observe an improvement for Infrabel and SNCB over a longer term while the "third and other" causes are sometimes very strong increase. I will inform you in the annex of the evolution of the average punctuality rate compared to 2014. The necessary initiatives taken by both companies are aimed at the following points: firstly, the avoidance of incidents linked to rolling stock; secondly, the infrastructure; thirdly, causes by third parties, i.e. trespassing and collisions. In addition, SNCB systematically sensitises its staff in order to avoid execution errors. In this context, I am thinking of the following points: reducing the consequences of incidents through rapid technical intervention in the event of defects; the balance between the amount of infrastructure work, the available capacity and an acceptable level of punctuality; efficient incident management and a robust transport plan, which makes it easy to cope with minor incidents; improving the passenger's perception through the Information to Travellers Action Plan, which aims at targeted communication to passengers on the causes of delays; prospects for restoring normal conditions and possible travel alternatives. Specific actions are also being taken in relation to third parties and rolling stock. Major events explain to a large extent the difference in the number of trains abolished in 2018 compared to 2017. Details are given in the annex. As regards the path fee, SNCB reserves its long-term driving paths almost a year in advance and provides for the corresponding budgets. When a train is travelling, the fee for this traffic is due. If, on the other hand, a train is deleted, the payment of the fee depends on the time of abolition. A withdrawal of more than two months in advance makes it possible to pay nothing. A withdrawal between one and two months shall give rise to the payment of the fee at 15 % of the amount of the intended path. A withdrawal between 24 hours and one month shall give rise to the payment of the fee at 30% of the amount of the intended path. The deletion of less than 24 hours before the departure time shall give rise to a payment of 100% of the amount of the planned path. In all of the above cases, the SNCB has no interest in removing a train as it must pay an invoice for a train that does not operate and must deal with claims for compensation and passenger dissatisfaction. SNCB therefore suffers a financial loss and an image deficit when trains are removed. Currently, there is no link between punctuality and the amount of the fee charged by Infrabel to SNCB. In terms of objectives, negotiations on the new management contract are still under way. Discussions on the punctuality objective under the new management contract are therefore not yet concluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u37	Minister, one of the interesting elements in your answer is the comparison with foreign operators. You compare with what happens there when the punctuality decreases or with various other factors in the context of robustness of the material between starting point and end point. You want to check what impact all this has on punctuality and what causes a decrease in punctuality. I see in the table that the punctuality of SNCB has fallen by 5.7 % in previous years and 2.6 % in Infrabel's share of the totality of punctuality and that the share of third parties has increased. We must, of course, pay attention to the interpretation of such figures. If the punctuality is much greater overall, the percentages are reduced by equal policies. I therefore find it difficult to draw any conclusions from this. With regard to abolished trains, you have been clear that this is not a policy. In the conclusion, however, clear wine must be given in respect of the new management agreement. What can be expected and what not? The frustration is, after all, the following. If we show that with all the investments we have a robustness and punctuality of so much and if we do not achieve that, then everyone is fooling around.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u38	Mr President, Minister, you have recently supported the idea of an MR chevin in the electoral campaign in Namur, Luc Gennart, according to which an express network to serve the small stations on the outskirts of Namur was quite feasible within a short time. However, this express network is absolutely not provided for in SNCB's 2017-2020 Transport Plan. Moreover, when we know the budgetary restrictions imposed on the Belgian railways, the cost of setting up such a network seems to me to jeopardize its implementation. Mr Minister, is there indeed a plan to set up this Namur Express Network? Is he under study? If so, can we know the practical arrangements for setting up such a network and the time frame for implementation? What will the costs be? I would like to make it clear that my question obviously does not concern the establishment of a City Pass, this famous single ticket which would make it possible to use the bus and the train, but rather on the exps network, i.e. the strengthening of small peripheral stations and certain peripheral lines which would allow real rail alternatives to car transport or other public transport in Namur. Can you repeat these different elements to us so that we know, once and for all, what will be put in place in Namur within the deadlines that you have a priori described as short?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u39	Mr President, Minister, in a video recently posted, you appear with a member of the City of Namur candidate in the upcoming communal elections, to defend the ideas of a City Pass and a Namur Express Network, aimed at encouraging, through a preferential rate and a better hourly frequency, the inhabitants of Namur and its surroundings to use the train to reach the city centre. Given the number of students and workers joining Namur every day and the mobility stakes that this city is experiencing because of its configuration in baskets, this is a significant prospect that Ecolo, through my voice and that of the echevine de la Mobilité, Patricia Grandchamps, has regularly defended, particularly in the context of our annual Saint Valentrain operation. That is to say, if we hope that this is not just a pre-election announcement but a firm commitment from SNCB. Minister, at what stage are you and the SNCB thinking about setting up a Namibian express network? How would this express network be realized in terms of rates, frequency and hourly amplitude? How soon would this new formula be put in place? Is prior consultation planned or has it taken place with the City of Namur and the TEC, as long as a political agreement between the Federal and the Walloon Region is necessary for the City Pass? What preliminary studies on incoming and outgoing travel, tariff policy, revenue impact have been conducted? If the idea is good, is it envisaged to transpose it to other metropolises since there is already a City Pass in Charleroi and Liège? The question of the frequency and timing of a specific offer may arise for cities other than those mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u40	Colleagues, like the City Pass and City Pass 24h tariff products developed and launched this year for the major cities of the "Angélique" suburban network, in collaboration with De Lijn and the TEC, I proposed that consideration be given to the introduction of these same tariff products in Namur, Walloon capital and second station in Wallonia (in terms of attendance) and, in the meantime, in Leuven. A distinction must be made between the 2017 Transport Plan which has been expanded on Namur, Antwerp, Liège and Charleroi and the attractive tariff product on the basis of the existing transport plan. The commitments made during 2017 to expand the supply of trains on Namur have been met. I recall: an additional train on the Athus-Meuse line, trains every half hour on Charleroi-Sud, Legs every half hour at peak hours and a change in schedules. You have the transport plan that specifies that. The use of public transport in the barge area and in the urban and suburban area has yet to be made attractive on the basis of an attractive tariff formula which applies to public road transport (buses, TEC) and railways. The aim is therefore not to increase the tariff offer which has been expanded in the 2017 Transport Plan but to encourage potential travellers, via an attractive fare, to make more use of public bus and train transport within a radius of about 20 km around these large cities. The ambition is therefore to encourage the distribution of flows within the entire public transport offer available, to use, for example, the car parks of small stations located around the metropolises and to abandon his car to take the train. Once we get to the station, we take the bus. This is what was achieved and launched in Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi and which I propose to extend, in Wallonia, to the City of Namur because it is quite appropriate. Five lines converge there, so there is a relatively interesting train offer. What is the time frame for implementation? For Liège and Charleroi, it took a year, a year and a half from the time the "Angélique" study was tabled to the time when the negotiations between SNCB and TEC were concluded. I would point out that in Charleroi, the price is 60 euros per month. This is a lump sum regardless of the number of trips, with a 50 per cent rate for those under 25 years of age, i.e. 30 euros. In Liège, the price is 50 euros with a 25 euros package for students. Why is there a difference? Because the extent of the area concerned around Liège and Charleroi is different. Around Namur, there is an assessment that is made either 15 km or 20 km away. It is obvious that if we go up 20 km, the rate will be higher than 15 km. Why? Because at 15 km, I think there are 22 stations and at 20 km, there are 32. It all comes from an analysis. SNCB and TEC are invited to analyse the implementation of the City Pass. We are already making an impact assessment for students on Liège. In Antwerp, we already have a little step back. You should know that this is the kind of product that, when it is launched, takes two or three years before you know its cruise regime. That's basically what was proposed for Namur. I would like to point out that the number of trains, their frequency and the transport plan as drawn up, allow us to set up a City Pass as soon as the negotiations have been concluded. The whole thing is to agree with the public transport companies as regards the 15 or 20 km around Namur station.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answer, which seems to me to clarify the content of this video and this release, which I would call an electorist. We understood that no additional offers would apply to Namur. Then, and that's very good news, you're responding to our old request for a single ticket - which we've been asking for "since, since," as they say in Africa. Of course, I support you in this. This transport ticket will make it possible to use the TEC buses and the train, since several peripheral stations offer a real alternative. Unfortunately, I must regret that we do not give the means of our ambitions to the railways to be able to increase the frequencies on these peripheral lines, so as to give some weight to these possibilities. In this way, our fellow citizens could once and for all abandon their cars in dissuasive car parks and make greater use of public transport. To that end, it would have been necessary to express a courageous budgetary choice, favouring a massive investment in the deployment of these express networks. We find that small stations, such as Dave's, have suffered from a closure. It is difficult to claim to support an express network if we do not commit the means to operate all these peripheral stations in the best way, with a frequency offering a real alternative to our citizens. That is what we are asking you, without any connection with any electoral communication, but with a sustainable project for Namur. I hope we can work calmly on it sooner or later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u42	Mr Minister, there has been a confusion, I think, between the City Pass, which is a good initiative, and the Namibian express network, which is in fact not being discussed here. It is clear that the supply of trains around the City of Namur has been improved as part of the last transport plan, which is significant. I think that, beyond the tariff, if we want to attract even more people to the train, we have to work on the magnitude of the offer. It is not normal that the last train leaving Namur to nearby stop points in the local network should not take place after 9 p.m. It is necessary to work on hourly coordination, to try to avoid breaking loads for travellers who go beyond Namur (especially to Brussels), on punctuality, or even on the reopening of stop points such as Dave's. So I'm a little disappointed that this beautiful mountain finally gives birth to a mouse. Not that I do not encourage you to develop a Namur City Pass, but I really urge you, in relation to mobility issues, in dialogue with the local authorities (and it seems that you are getting along well with one of the elders), to further improve the supply of trains. I think it is an issue of environmental mobility, but also an economic one for this city. I have no doubt that we will have an opportunity to discuss it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u43	Mr President, in prolegomenes, I wanted to say that, of course, in this Chamber, no one is a virgin: we are all women and politicians who are mostly candidates in our communes at the same time. It is, moreover, very good: it is the local anchor that is important. I myself am the rear locomotive in my commune. There you go. Minister, rail suicides are a dramatic phenomenon. In addition to the enormous human tragedy that this represents, which of course is my first concern, the financial cost is also important for SNCB. In 2015, you announced that two million euros had been needed to cover the costs of this phenomenon. Minister, in 2008, Infrabel carried out a "Suicide Plan", identifying 34 sensitive sites in 21 communes in order to devote attention to the general accessibility of the sites, the determining characteristics of the surrounding area and the infrastructure characteristics that represent a potential danger. Can you take stock of this "Suicide Plan", although I don't like this term? What action has been taken? Have new risk areas been identified? Have any concrete measures been taken or should they be taken? I am thinking, in particular, of fences along critical sites. In 2015, your predecessor announced that more than 3.5 kilometres of roads had been protected and that another 10 kilometres had yet to be protected by 2016. Has this been done? At the present time, how many kilometres are protected and how many are still to be protected? I thank you for your answers, while knowing very well that someone who really intends to go from life to life, if I dare say... It is difficult to completely prevent this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u44	Mr President, dear colleague, Infrabel informs me of the following. Since 2016, Infrabel's executive committee has made the decision to stop communicating about suicides on the rail. This decision was taken at the request of suicide prevention organizations, with which Infrabel works very closely. According to these associations, many studies show that the mediatization of a suicide is likely to encourage psychologically weakened people to move forward in the development of a scenario of transition to action through the copycat effect. The decision of the steering committee is very broad, both on the type of information, the annual figures, the places where attempts occur frequently etc., and on the media targeted. In particular, it has been the subject of an explanatory letter addressed to the press so that the media can support this approach of discretion. Parliamentary questions are covered by the decision, in particular because the answers then constitute information accessible to the general public and the press. Concerning the installation of rigid fences, Infrabel informs me of the following. On January 1, 2018, Infrabel installed 7,648 metres of fence over the 14,162 metres that are planned, so just over half.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answer. I don't think she calls for any further comment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u46	Mr Minister, SNCB intends to restrict the presence of the substation chief in Halle's station. From now on, there would only be a substation chief present from 10:00 to 18:00. Today there is permanent presence from 6 am 00 in the morning until 22 am 00 in the evening. That containment means that there will be no presence of a substation chief at the most busy moment of the day during the morning rush. Locally there is, of course, protest, because this will undoubtedly have an impact on the service. Today there are already many problems in terms of safety, information and assistance to travellers. Of course, SNCB must use its resources efficiently. However, it is unclear what the justification for this decision is. Hence the following questions. What is the justification for restricting the presence of the substation chief at the station Halle? Was this decision made only for Halle or for several similar stations? How will the substation chief's duties be completed beyond 10:00 to 18:00?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me that it has found a solution to safeguard the presence of a sub-station manager in Halle on working days between 6 a.m. and 22 a.m. However, there may always be exceptional circumstances which prevent this from happening.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u48	So, to clarify, Minister, there would be a permanence of 6:00 to 22:00? But it's not always guaranteed? [[Assent]] That's a positive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u49	Mr President, Minister, on Wednesday 19 September, the accompanying staff of the SNCB organised a "Post it" action to protest the increase in the number of attacks on staff. Several attacks were committed, sometimes very violent (with a knife in Lier, an attempt to rape Statte). It is clear that the situation is untenable. Problems and problem trains are known. In 2017, the number of assaults increased by 11% compared to 2016. And yet, until this week, no initiative has been taken to combat the phenomenon. According to the attendants, the decrease in staff at the station and on the trains worsens the situation. The unions indicate that the closure of the windows and stations causes the dehumanisation of trains, with serious effects for the attendants – and necessarily also for the passengers. The unions ask for additional staff, a priori to provide two escorts on all problematic trains and to reintroduce staff to stations where they have been withdrawn. SNCB has already announced that the Securail teams will be strengthened between 6:00 p.m. and 2:00 a.m. Minister, do you have the provisional figures for 2018 on assaults? Have you discussed the problem of assaults with the management of SNCB? What are the possible solutions? Shouldn't the problem of aggression be taken into account for the "One Man Car" project, since travellers would lose all assistance from an escort in these vehicles?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I will pass on to you the figures relating to attacks on staff. These figures were in constant decline from 2012, except in 2017 when the curve reversed, with an increase of 11% between 2016 and 2017, but without returning to the level of previous years. This increase in 2017 was most felt in the second half of 2018, but again there was a decrease in the first half of 2018. SNCB recorded 583 reports of assaults during this period, 4% less than in the previous semester. The SNCB nevertheless informs me that it is important to follow this development closely and to strengthen the measures it is taking. SNCB developed, several years ago, an anti-aggression masterplan containing some 50 measures. This plan involves not only all relevant partners, but also measures at all levels of the security chain: proactive, preventive, reactive, repressive and curative. These measures are discussed in a joint group with the employer and staff representatives. SNCB states that it did not wait until last week to respond to the upsurge in the number of events and is constantly adapting its plan. Recent measures include, for example, the new train departure procedure put in place a few weeks ago, in order to increase safety and limit conflicts with late travellers who, as you know, Mr Van Hees, are trying to climb through the door which has remained open the time for the attendant to do his start-up operations. Last week, it was also decided that the presence of Securail would be strengthened in the trains in general and with special attention in the evening on all lines but especially on sensitive lines. A project such as the One Man Car requires many preliminary reflections and analyses, of which the analysis of risks to customers is indeed part. As a result of the information on this accompanying movement, I contacted the CEO of SNCB to offer my assistance if the analyses and findings on the ground showed that legislative initiatives could provide a response to the situation. I believe that all rail workers are entitled to expect good safety, but unfortunately they are confronted with social events that are becoming more and more widespread towards public officials, whether they are train attendants, station deputy chiefs or even police or military officers on the street, which is of course unacceptable in the head of the perpetrators of these events. There is also a call for solidarity among witnesses who must not remain passive but must provide their support and, to the limit, intervene to support escorts or police officers or people who are being assaulted. All too often, it is observed that people remain passive when acts of aggression occur. There is even one that was strongly highlighted last week as it concerned a journalist.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u51	Minister, I have taken note of the matter to which you are referring. I hope that your answer is not limited to explaining that an attendant working alone on a sensitive train will be able to rely on the help of travellers to get out of it, rather than relying on the presence of several of his colleagues. You can obviously highlight societal facts and defend - that's what I expected - the SNCB's anti-aggression masterplan. However, one of the central problems is the lack of personnel in some trains and stations. Unfortunately, this is a heavy trend, in the name of a constant search for higher productivity. That is the only point you did not address in your answer. I regret it, but believe you know the reason: you will maintain the line that has been drawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u52	More specifically, my question concerns the possibility of additional stops for certain P trains, for example at Courrière station. Mr Minister, we discussed the issue of connections with the city of Namur via SNCB earlier, and I would like to make a further suggestion. A large number of commuters travel daily from the municipalities of Hamois, Gesves or Assesse to Brussels. However, they have to undergo a load break at Namur station, which can have the effect of lengthening their return or return journey very strongly, especially in the event of a punctuality problem. One solution for these could be to establish an additional stop point in morning or evening peak hours, such as P trains, at Courrière station, on the territory of the municipality of Assesse. Courrière is not only the most important of the cited stop points, but also the one with the most intermodality (with TEC, N4, E411 and N931). The Attractiveness of Courrière goes beyond the municipality of Assesse, commuters using the train also come from the neighbouring communes. A large parking lot exists and could be extended around this stopping point, perpendicular to the tracks. In the past, this load-free link has been proposed by SNCB. The train which made a semi-direct link between Rochefort-Jemelle and Namur in the morning until the beginning of the work on line 162 was the last incarnation. These additional stops would unload L trains between Assesse and Namur which are particularly well filled in the morning, I am witness, but would also greatly facilitate the lives of commuters wishing to join Brussels. We have done a small analysis of the schedules as they exist today. For example, one could imagine additional stops by changing the schedule of only one train, the P7610, which should be advanced by a few minutes. In concrete terms, it would be necessary in the morning to add a stop at Courrière for trains P7600 and P7602 and, in the evening, to add a stop at Courrière for the P8601. Minister, can you indicate whether the SNCB is generally open to thinking about adding stops to P trains, such as those mentioned, in order to make life easier for commuters? As regards the concrete proposal to add two judgments in the morning and one judgment in the evening as regards Courrière station, is the SNCB open to study it? Where appropriate, to whom can commuters or communes who have concrete suggestions to make contact to suggest such changes in timetables?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u53	Dear colleague, SNCB informs me that, since the 2014 – 2017 transport plan, it is moving towards a clear distinction between the IC long distance offer and the L or S short distance offer.This allows for a better readability of the offer for customers while maintaining attractive commercial speeds for IC trains travelling longer distances. SNCB is trying to apply the same principle for P trains, i.e. align their stops with the corresponding IC or L/S relationship. The application of this principle will be further strengthened, within the framework of the transport plan 2020 – 2023, the study of which begins. The shutdown of long-distance P trains at Courrière is not part of the SNCB's development plan. Courrière, like other stations located between Ciney and Namur, already benefits from a service half an hour in rush hours. With regard to individual requests from individual stations, it should be borne in mind that SNCB will only be able to study them if they are sufficiently numerous on the same subject so that the train is a realistic response. SNCB will give commuters the opportunity to submit their requests via an email address that will be communicated during the road shows carried out by SNCB in the second quarter of 2019. Another way to relay applications is through local elected officials who can aggregate applications on a single theme and then forward them to the SNCB public affairs correspondent. Road shows will start in principle at the end of 2018 – early 2019 with, as an integrator of local authorities, the governors, waiting for the elections and the establishment of the new communal councils. The SNCB will start the road shows soon after.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u54	Mr President, Minister, I am also speaking to you as a local elected official, and I am anxious to convey the concerns of many commuters. It is a good idea for commuters who start south of Namur and want to go to Brussels to plan a direct link that does not oblige them to break the load at Namur station. I think this would greatly improve the attractiveness of SNCB's travel offer. I hear the argument of the readability of the offer, which has been known since the introduction of the previous plans of SNCB, and in particular IC, but I think it is time to evaluate them and question them because the addition of stop points to peak hours upstream of the major cities in which there are load breaks seems to me a pragmatic solution that must be able to look with a new eye. In your remarks, I hear two contradictory information about the future: on the one hand, the reaffirmation that the future plan of SNCB will remain in this logic of the same stopping points for P trains as for IC trains, but on the other hand, an opening to suggestions from stakeholders, whether they are groups of commuters or groups of commuters supported by their communal council or by local elected representatives in general. I hope that in this second hypothesis, SNCB will open its ears and "cerveaux" to a challenge, but with the aim of improving its services on the principles it applies in this case to determine its train offer. I believe that there are pragmatic solutions to be considered for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u55	Minister, my last question concerns the search for a solution so that pedestrian or cyclist users can access the Namur train station tunnel. For the past two years, the SNCB parking lot at Namur station, located under the buildings of the Walloon Region administration, is no longer accessible to pedestrians. However, it had been for many years, thanks to an agreement between SNCB and the City of Namur. De facto, this deprives students, workers and residents of a pedestrian link between the Bomel district and downtown Namur. I am thinking in particular of cyclists. When I asked you about this in September 2016, you presented to me the arguments of SNCB, but you also informed me of your willingness to contribute to the search for a solution - at the insistent request of the City of Namur, as well as the neighbourhood committees of Herbatte and Bomel - in order to restore this passage or any other equivalent. You then met on site - and I think I am well informed - a delegation from the City of Namur and agreed to propose a development plan that meets both the constraints of the SNCB and the expectations of the residents. This other possibility was designed by the City's services, which reserved a budget of 100,000 euros to participate in the financing of the works. A management agreement, meeting the different expectations expressed by SNCB, was also proposed by the City. Despite all these efforts and your personal commitment, this discussion has just led to an end not to be received from the SNCB side. The Commission officially informed the City of this by letter dated 23 August. On reading the various arguments, I have the impression that this is a principled position of SNCB which, contrary to what you said, does not wish to question its current reasoning or find pragmatic answers to the issues at stake. Minister, can you please indicate whether you have been consulted by SNCB on the response to be given to the City of Namur regarding the restoration of a pedestrian crossing under the tracks from Namur station to the neighbourhoods of Bomel and Herbatte? Does this response by SNCB not contradict your commitments to find a solution, made in committee and reiterated during a meeting with representatives of the City of Namur? Can you commit yourself to a reopening of the SNCB's discussions with the City of Namur with a view to a solution to facilitate the pedestrian journey between the city centre and the neighbourhoods of Bomel and Herbatte? If the route proposed by the City is not feasible, even if I believe it is, are you prepared to consider other scenarios? When it was possible to pass through the SNCB car park, the passage was estimated at 6,000 people a day. It's not annoyance. Since I have seen that you are interested in Namibian affairs, I have no doubt that you will help me find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u56	Dear colleague, in order to clarify the matter, my services sent to SNCB, for analysis, a letter dated July 24 from Mrs Patricia Grandchamps, a member of the Mobility Department in Namur, concerning the pedestrian link between the city centre and the boulevard du Nord. On 23 August, SNCB sent a reply directly to Mrs Grandchamps without consulting my services. She sent me a copy of it. During my on-site visit, on 30 January 2017, it had been agreed that the College should make a technical proposal compatible with road safety rules, in particular. This meeting was discussed between SNCB and the City at a meeting on February 28, 2018 at the Echevinat de Namur. In its letter, after a further examination of the situation of the project submitted by the City of Namur, the SNCB confirms its position regarding the establishment of an access control at the level of the entrances and exits of the underground parking lot P1 of the station of Namur and the prohibition for pedestrians and cyclists to travel on the ramp of access to the said parking lot. SNCB states that the use of the parking ramp by pedestrians and cyclists is incompatible with safety standards and accessibility standards for persons with reduced mobility. It stresses that before access control was put in place, there were many incidents of vandalism and degradation. This is no longer the case today, which seems to satisfy many of SNCB's clients. In addition, SNCB informs that it is physically impossible to create a pedestrian and cycling path independent of the car park access roads. The available width between the concrete walls allows the only passage of the cars. Creating a one-metre corridor does not allow the crossing of up and down pedestrian flows, let alone the movement of two-wheelers. In addition, 22 parking spaces should be removed for this development, which is not possible while the use of the station's car parks is on the rise. In light of these factors, SNCB concludes that it cannot authorize the development proposed by the City of Namur. It recalls that the agreement signed on 18 December 2003 between SNCB, the Walloon Region and the City states in its statement that "in the context of the development of the site of the Namur station, it was decided to postpone the traffic in transit and pedestrian to the level of the slab, which implies the passage through the buildings of the SNCB, passenger building and slab, as well as those of the Walloon Region. "Passage" means a pedestrian or bicycle crossing by hand, between Place de la Station and Boulevard du Nord. It is therefore clear that the only public passage through the station's facilities is through the slab and not through the parking lot, taking into account all the safety and traffic and safety aspects of the goods inside the SNCB's parking lot.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u57	Minister, I'm disappointed. I thought that your love for the City of Namur and your pragmatic character would make sure that you put all your weight in the search for a solution. But you are simply the spokesperson for SNCB, which, I believe, is showing bad will on the case. It seems to me important that a railway station integrates into a city and takes into account the demands of the residents. In my view, there is clearly a breach of commitment in relation to this convention that you mentioned and which dates back to 2003, because the possibilities of passage through the railway station slab are not permanent (the building being closed from midnight to 04:00), and that, contrary to what you have just said, the passage for cyclists is not possible given the presence of steep escalators and too often in breakdown, without talking to you about the possibility of passage for PMRs. There is a real lack of search for a creative solution, if the one proposed by the City of Namur did not appeal to SNCB. I do not see in the mail addressed to the City of Namur on your behalf, the opening looking for other solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u58	Mr Gilkinet, it was not written on my behalf because I did not receive the exchange.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u59	Yes, but in your answer received here, you do well enough. You did not stand out from the position that was communicated by SNCB. It's a little comfortable: either you agree or you're not! But, anyway and in the meantime, there is a new deal through the creation of a second parking lot (Park P2), far away from Namur station. It seems to me that the creation of a direct link between this parking lot P 2 and the docks could respond to the legitimate concern of the inhabitants of the neighborhood, passing through the docks rather than through the tunnel under the tracks. At this stage, neither in SNCB's mail nor in listening to you, I see a desire for creativity and solutions. I quoted the number of people involved. It has been counted as 6,000 pedestrian crossings for 14 years, until 2016. It's not annoyance. This is a real need. Both the City of Namur and I will return to the charge, hoping one day to be listened to and to be faced with constructive interlocutors in order to find a concrete and pragmatic solution given the stakes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u60	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Thiébaut's 27007 was postponed. For the sake of completeness, I would also like to say that the questions Nos. Mr Devin's 26729, 26960, 26774 and 27018 have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u61	Minister, yesterday the SNCB Train Map was launched. This is a positive initiative that allows trains to be tracked via a map on the Internet. A number of extensions are planned to allow the follow-up of certain trains in real time. I think this is an excellent initiative which responds to the need for travellers to know where their train is. Another element concerns the number of free seats on the train and where they are located. This is an innovative technology that could be integrated into the Train Map. All kinds of data could be collected at the service of travellers. The number of passengers per station or train is not systematically counted. Travelers take place once a year, in October. Mr Geerts has raised this issue a number of times. Then the number of passengers is counted manually in the stations. I find it difficult to imagine that there are no more modern ways of systematically counting the number of passengers and mapping the flows of passengers. This could be interesting information for SNCB. I am thinking, for example, of data from telecom operators. The telecom operators are already commercialising anonymized data from human flows today. They offer them, for example, to road managers. I can imagine that this could also be useful for train managers such as SNCB. A possible element of the Train Map forms the seats on the train. The number of free seats on the train is estimated but not systematically maintained. However, with today's technology of sensors this would not be so difficult, I believe. There are already foreign examples where a sensor is built into the seat and where the screens in the train indicate in which wagon there are still free seats. In this way, the number of seats can be used more efficiently by rail passengers. I come to my questions, Minister. Firstly, what initiatives does SNCB take today to organise travel arrangements in a more systematic and contemporary way? Secondly, how does SNCB keep track of the number of free seats on the train today and how many people might have to stand up? What initiatives are being taken to organise this in a more systematic and contemporary way so that customers know where to take their seats?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u62	Mr Van den Bergh, as far as the travel arrangements are concerned, SNCB says that the use of automation would indeed provide more accuracy and create new opportunities. Clearly identified technologies offered on the market have been identified, but they are accompanied by very high investment costs. SNCB maintains regular contacts with the suppliers of potential Wi-Fi, bluetooth, detection, electronic tapestry, stereoscopic cameras, radio frequency identification, telecom, tracking, GPS etc. and participates in events such as InnoTrans to watch the novelties. SNCB indicates that the tests carried out with Orange and Proximus telecom operators in 2016 have not produced satisfactory results. Their algorithms were not sufficiently mature to replace the manual counts. The cost of such data may also be a brake factor. SNCB points out that there are two types of additional censuses. The annual census shall be carried out each year in the month of October. For nine consecutive days, passengers arriving and departing shall be recorded at all the stations and stops of the SNCB network. With the annual census, the evolution of the number of passengers is known and passenger flows can be determined by axis and line, the importance of the stations can be assessed and the frequency of visitors can be determined for each hour. In addition, daily occupancys are carried out by the train escorts on different pre-defined sections. These counts make it possible to find out the occupation of the trains according to several criteria: working day or holiday, weekday or weekend, school holiday or no school holiday, summer or winter, rush hour or valley hour, first class versus second class. The information shall be used to determine the train compositions necessary to meet passengers' demand. The information will enable the undesirable conditions of overcrowded or undercrowded trains to be monitored and corrected as far as possible. SNCB adds that it has good resources for the statistical processing and analysis of the data and that it is monitoring the technologies made available on the market with a view to improving the systematic collection of automated data. The difficulty, therefore, is not a vision problem, but has to do with the possibility of implementing modern counting solutions in materials that are sometimes more than twenty years old on average.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u63	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answer. I understand that possible new applications are being looked at, which are often expensive. However, I assume that a manual count during nine consecutive days in all stations of Belgium is also a rather expensive task. It is therefore a good thing that SNCB continues to follow up and look at better techniques to organise the censuses. As far as seats are concerned, the occupation of a train is being monitored today with a view to the organisation of SNCB itself. Should a train be made longer or can a train possibly be shorter to provide sufficient capacity? It would be good to do such counts or measurements with a view to rail passengers, where he or she can, for example, get the signal that there are still a number of seats in the rear car or elsewhere and he or she can go there. In this respect, there is still some progress for SNCB in terms of customer friendliness. However, I understand that it succeeds well and considers what it can do. It is certainly important that when purchasing or ordering new material, for example, the fitting of seats with sensors could be considered. Mr Minister, with that remark, I will conclude my reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u64	Mr President, Minister, on 10 September, SNCB issued a press release stating that the organisation was being modernised and that an executive committee was being created alongside the current management committee. Members of the Management Committee would be included, together with those responsible for other managements. This would respond to the challenges and priorities of SNCB. The Transport Directorate was split between Transport Operations and Passengers Transport and Security. Three managers were designated for this purpose. During the previous legislature it was decided to set a wage ceiling for SNCB, the prime minister norm. The remuneration of the CEO should be assessed against the prime minister norm. When it appeared that some board members deserved more than the CEO, this situation would be corrected in the future. The original question about this, asked to your predecessor, dates back to 2015. What is the status of the executive committee? Which departments will be represented? How many members does the executive committee count? How many times a year will they meet? In fact, this is an extension of the Management Committee. Does this mean an additional fee for these members or is this part of their current job content? Quid with the remuneration for additional management functions? How many board members still earn more than the CEO at SNCB and Infrabel? So far, my specific questions, without touching personal details.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u65	Mr President, SNCB informed me that the executive committee prepares and succeeds the implementation of the decision of the Management Committee. The executive committee consists of ten members who hold the following functions: delegate director, paster transport and security, transport operations, technicians stations, marketing and sales, finance, strategy, legal, IT, corporate communication, HR and CEO office. In principle, this committee meets each week in the same way as the Management Committee. SNCB points out that the members of the Management Committee will not receive any additional remuneration for this. For remuneration, the general remuneration policy for senior executives shall be followed, as proposed by the appointment and remuneration committee to the Management Board and approved by the Management Board. The remuneration of the members of the Management Committee shall be in accordance with the decision of the Management Board of 2014, when the remuneration of the managing director was capped as follows: a maximum gross wage of EUR 230 000, to be indexed according to the January 2014 index, of which EUR 180 000 for the fixed part and EUR 50 000 for the variable part. In accordance with the legal obligations, this remuneration shall be published annually in the annual report. The following information was published for 2017. During the year 2017, there were two delegated directors. The overall gross remuneration of the first managing director until March 2017 was EUR 59 615,82 for the fixed part of 2017 and EUR 15 551,94 for the variable part of 2017, as the contract was terminated. The overall gross remuneration of the second managing director from March 2017 was 198 719.40 euros for the fixed portion. There were no benefits in kind, no group insurance or hospitalisation insurance. In the year 2017, the following global gross remuneration was granted to the other members of the Management Committee: EUR 821,832,89 for the fixed part of 2017 and EUR 198 072,24 for the variable part of 2016. Other elements of the remuneration were, firstly, benefits in kind, namely a car and telephone, for an amount of EUR 17 620,46 and, secondly, group insurance and accident and hospitalisation insurance, for an amount of EUR 73 867,13. Finally, SNCB adds that no director earns more annually than the CEO. As regards Infrabel's CEO's salary, the infrastructure manager refers to the remuneration report, which is published annually. The report shall define the principles of remuneration, which shall be determined in accordance with applicable legislation, and shall specify all amounts for the year 2017. In return for the exercise of their mandate, the Directors-General shall receive a fixed salary and a monthly job allowance, holiday allowance, an annual premium and a variable management premium. The salary is in accordance with the agreements with the competent authorities, namely a fixed wage of EUR 180 000 and a variable wage of up to EUR 55 000 per year. Those amounts shall be indexed. In return for the exercise of his mandate, the managing director shall receive a fixed part of EUR 230 000 gross per year and a variable part not exceeding EUR 60 000 gross per year, the amount of which shall be determined by the Executive Board of Infrabel, on the basis of the achievement of the objectives set by the Governing Board of Infrabel. Those amounts shall be indexed annually.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for the transparency in your reply. I asked this question simply because we must avoid the possibility of another waterhead being created at the top and that it goes wrong in its implementation. If the executive committee is effective in making or implementing decisions better, then that is a good thing. However, if it turns out that it is a vehicle that causes additional delays, then it is not a good decision. Of course, we will not be able to evaluate this until next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u67	Mr Minister, the subject of the renovation of the Ghent-Sint-Pieters station needs little introduction. The first phase of the project relating to platforms 8 to 12 has almost been completed. The second phase relating to platforms 1 to 7 is a worry child. There was a design, but the bid prices were much higher than the estimate. Therefore, the tendering procedure was discontinued and re-procurement was carried out in the form of a negotiated procedure with prior publication at European level. That was the end of last year. Changes were then made to the design in order to reduce the cost price, but the price of the offer was still too high. Further negotiations with potential contractors were launched. A week and a half ago, SNCB announced that the design of the second phase will be refined in the coming months. Less glass, fewer lamps, fewer storerooms, less deep technical spaces and a smaller canopy had to reduce the cost of the second phase. SNCB communicated that the works of the second phase are scheduled to start in the second half of 2020. The works must be completed by 2027. In other words, until half of 2020 nothing will happen at the station Gent-Sint-Pieters. What was the total price for the first part, the tracks 12 through 8? Has that been kept within the planned budget? What is the exact reason for SNCB's communication of 14 September 2018 about the station? Has a final decision been taken on the design of platforms 1 to 7? If so, I'd like to get some more explanation. Will a design plan be communicated? If not, what is the state of play? Has a contractor been assigned to the second phase? If so, which contractor? What's the quote price? What mutual agreements were reached on the start and end of the works and the consequences of any delays? If not, what is the state of play? On the basis of which does SNCB communicate a start and end date of the works? Do you intend to make more money available for the Ghent-Sint-Pieters station? Has the Mayor of Ghent and the Chairman of the Steering Group Project Gent-Sint-Pieters contacted you earlier regarding the duration and cost of the renovation works at that station, apart from last week's letter from the College? Finally, what is your view on the painful delay in the renovations at the Ghent-Sint-Pieters station?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u68	Indeed, on 20 September I received a letter from Daniel Termont, Mayor of Ghent, concerning the renovation works of the Ghent-Sint-Pieters station. SNCB informs me that the project partners had decided from the start of the project that the works at the station would be carried out in two phases. A first phase covered tracks 12 to 8 and a second phase covered tracks 7 to 1. That's a common procedure for major works. SNCB has been able to achieve the first phase within the proposed budget. It also states that the bids made by the various contractors for the second stage proved to be much higher than the budget drawn up by SNCB on the basis of the first stage. It has therefore launched a second round of invitations to tender and examined how construction costs can be reduced. SNCB adds that Gent-Sint-Pieters becomes a more functional station, without affecting the comfort of the passengers. The renewed railway station will focus even more on intermodality, allowing passengers to move easily from one means of transport to another. The platforms will still be covered, so the passengers will be in the dry. On the other hand, the fact that the tracks are no longer covered will not, according to SNCB, reduce the comfort of the passengers. The wide platforms with escalators, fixed stairs and lifts are maintained. The tram station is carried out as planned, and the number of bike parkings may be expanded. A number of cost reduction interventions are being investigated. SNCB adds that negotiations with potential contractors are still ongoing. According to current planning, the contractor can be appointed next year. It will have a period of several months of study. The works can be continued as planned by 2020. The final end date for the construction of the station remains according to the current schedule 2027. In the absence of additional budget, SNCB, like any family faced with a higher price estimate in the event of renovation, should set priorities to complete the project without exceeding the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The renovation of Gent-Sint-Pieters will be a painful dossier for SNCB and Infrabel. The station, which is the largest in Flanders, deserves better, the 60 000 commuters a day also deserve better. The works started in 2010 and the end is still not in sight. You say that the call for tenders will take place next year. In my view, this is all about amateurism and a poor follow-up of the works. I believe that SNCB is obliged to build a functional, comfortable and modern station for those 60 000 commuters. I call on you to give that message to SNCB and Infrabel and to warn them that such a practice in other major works cannot be repeated. You say that SNCB guarantees the completion of the works in 2027. I'm not so sure about that, but I hope I'm wrong. Minister, this is the second time I have asked you what the first phase cost. You're not answering that. I believe that we are entitled to an answer; we need to know what the first phase cost and what the budget for the second phase is. I would like a clear answer from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u70	To be continued at a later stage, I suppose, if the Minister does not answer now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u71	I don't have the numbers on me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u72	(...) Why do you not want to give these figures, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u73	These are included in SNCB's investment plans. It's a public document.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u74	Then why aren't you given those figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u75	I'll get the numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u76	Mr. Minister, at the beginning of September, Het Belang van Limburg reported that the long-awaited renovation works at Hasselt station would start on Monday 17 September. First the rear will be addressed and next year the underpass and the platforms. The works should be completed in the course of 2023. I have three specific questions on this matter, Minister. We are now a few weeks further, but the announced renovations have not yet started. Is that right? What's the reason for this? When will the works start? Finally, can you confirm that the second phase of the works will start effectively in September 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u77	Mr Raskin, SNCB informs me that the start meeting with the contractor of the works took place on 17 September 2018. Preparations for the yard were then started. On the ground, this means that the yard will be set up in the next few weeks and the clearing works will be prepared. If planning goes well, the works will last until the end of 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u78	Mr Minister, what appeared in the newspaper on 17 September was actually the date of the preparatory meeting. I conclude that the works in Hasselt will begin in concrete terms in the coming weeks and that the planned timing will remain unchanged.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u79	Minister, in the context of the AnGeLiC project, SNCB has been developing a suburban network around different cities for several years. Ghent is one of them. The new Transport Plan of December 2017 expanded the offer of trains to and from Ghent. In the morning rush and on Saturday an extra train to Eeklo arrived, an extra train to Lokeren all day and at the weekend, and an extra train to Sint-Denijs-Boekel, Munkzwalm and Kortrijk all day long. The additional service was limited to trains for which no infrastructure was needed. To give this offer a better visibility, from 3 September the trains were renamed S-trains in a radius of 30 kilometers around Ghent. I have two questions for you, Minister. First of all, could you explain the S-offer around Ghent? Secondly, what are SNCB's plans for the suburban network in the longer term? Is it being investigated whether old stops can be reopened? I am thinking of Langerbrugge, Ghent-Noord, Mariakerke and Sint-Denijs-Westrem. I'd like to get a little more explanation about this. What are the specific plans for this legislature? In the meantime, is it being examined whether railway station 204, Ghent-Zelzate port area, can be reopened for passenger transport? A study is under way, with the support of the federal and Flemish governments. What are the concrete steps that will be taken in this legislative period?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u80	Mr President, as I explained earlier at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee on 20 February, the study on the introduction of a regional express network for the suburban area of Ghent was completed in 2016 and distributed to the stakeholders concerned. A number of proposals in this study have already been made. For example, the offer was improved in and around Ghent and a City Pass Gent was executed. Infrabel confirms that the infrastructure is present on railway line 75, Kortrijk-Gent. The former stop Sint-Denijs-Westrem is located on this railway line, where next to the fast IC trains connecting the cities and the larger municipalities to Ghent, only a local train passes, namely the L-train Ronse-Gent-Eeklo. SNCB informs me that the current possibilities to operate Sint-Denijs-Westrem by train are very limited. In addition, the project area around the former station of Sint-Denijs-Westrem has been quite expanded, which still requires post-transport. Currently, De Lijn already offers aftertransport from the station Gent-Sint-Pieters. For example, on working days, the neighborhood around the former stop Sint-Denijs-Westrem can be reached from the optimally operated station Gent-Sint-Pieters at least six times per hour via different bus lines. Also the nearby area around Flanders Expo is already quickly and frequently accessible from Ghent-Sint-Pieters station. Tramline 1 runs up to ten times an hour between Gent-Sint-Pieters station and Flanders Expo. SNCB concludes that due to the limited possibility of train service and the already existing high-frequency supply of De Lijn from the Ghent-Sint-Pieters station, a reopening of the former stop Sint-Denijs-Westrem is not appropriate. The idea you cite to open other stations was indeed already discussed during meetings between the NBMS and its stakeholders. If SNCB considers that a proposal offers substantial possibilities, it will examine the technical feasibility and affordability of the investment and operation of its train service. If a study of the potential is positive, the technical and financial feasibility will be examined. However, SNCB is prepared to continue participating in studies carried out by various stakeholders.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u81	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The suburban network around Ghent is an important issue in which further steps can be taken. Ghent needs to be made more accessible from the edge. Those living in these areas should also be given the opportunity to connect with the main lines from Ghent to the coast, inland, Brussels and Antwerp. I therefore urge that work be carried out on opening up these smaller stations. This should be investigated and, if possible, activated.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u82	We will provide cost information for Phase 1. The second element will not be passed on because we do not want companies to be familiar with the Phase 2 estimate. At the time of the public call for work, it is not intended to disclose the estimated amount of SNCB's specification. No public authority has ever communicated its estimate of the work. When the auction takes place, no problem, but today we cannot do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u83	What amount was foreseen for the second phase? You should be able to say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u84	The global reserved amounts of the Ghent phase, yes. The cost of the first phase, I can give you, but I will not give the estimate of the second phase. On the other hand, I can tell you the cost of all the work planned in the Ghent environment, but it's not of much interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u85	For phase 2, an amount has been provided and an appeal has been launched. We're not gonna call again. If we give the amount now, companies risk typing as much as possible of the amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u86	There is a difference between the overall reserved amount for many works and the precise estimate of this Phase 2 project.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u87	Mr Minister, since April, the Benelux train has been running on line 4, the high-speed line. This also resulted in a replacement train service for passengers between Noorderkempen station and Antwerp. This was welcomed with enthusiasm because from the station Noorderkempen there were also direct connections with Brussels and the Netherlands. Meanwhile, that enthusiasm has been pretty tempered. The reversal is certainly not an undivided success. Complaint letters were sent to SNCB from both the municipality of Brecht and the surrounding municipalities and the action committee Noorderkempen. The complaints are mainly about the punctuality of the trains, the unreliability of the Benelux train, the parking and the coordination between the trains and buses, which remains a pain point. Mr Minister, how has SNCB assessed the service provided by the Benelux train since the switch to line 4? I understand that the travel statistics are all good. However, the punctuality figures do not seem to excite many new travellers. Hence my question whether you can give the weighted punctuality figures for the Benelux train as a whole. Could you also give me specific punctuality figures for the connection between Antwerp and Noorderkempen? I get a lot of complaints from that angle in particular. Can you also give me figures on the number of abolitions of the Benelux train as a whole? Recently I learned that many trains also pass the station Noorderkempen just to catch up on accumulated tags. How many times has that happened? Can I get figures on the number of travellers? Could the possibility be explored to go to a half-hour service at the station Noorderkempen, with alternating the Benelux train and a shuttle train between the Noorderkempen and Antwerp? This seems to be a possible concession, because the former shuttle train between Antwerp and the Noorderkempen had a very high reliability and attracted a lot of new passengers. It would be a shame if we all lost them now. What are the pain points of the Benelux train? How come there's so much trouble with it? What technical problems are there? Are these related to the safety systems or the different voltages in Belgium and the Netherlands? Was an evaluation of the new rates carried out by SNCB? Are there any adjustments needed or not? It is remarkable that a surcharge of 1 euro is charged if a ticket is purchased in Belgium. It should cover any losses on the connection. In the Netherlands, this does not seem to be the case. Do you think this is the right way to proceed? Finally, the international tickets will also be delivered via the vending machines from the end of this year, at least that was the plan. What is the state of play and the further timing in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u88	Mr President, the weighted punctuality figure for the Benelux train as a whole is 80.8 % and for the connection between the Noorderkempen and Antwerp 92%. A table of figures on the distinction between peak hours and off peak hours will be provided to you. The number of abolitions of the Benelux train as a whole in 2018 is 166 and for the connection between the Noorderkempen and Antwerp 2. An initial analysis shows that failures in rail equipment and infrastructure, both in Belgium and in the Netherlands, are the main sources of delays. Several improvement actions were launched. For example, problems with the equipment are now jointly analysed by SNCB and the NS. In the event of an incident between Antwerp and Noorderkempen, SNCB shall provide a shuttle service between the two stations. Your idea of having a peak hour train run as an L train all the time can be viewed as part of a next transport plan. A more detailed analysis of the punctuality problem took place in June. This has resulted in several action points, including timetables, the composition of the train equipment and the preparation of the train for departure. These measures were rolled out by SNCB, Infrabel, NS and ProRail at the beginning of this month and are also closely monitored and evaluated by the line's punctuality manager. These measures should reduce the number of incidents and limit their impact on passengers. In any case, the number of international travellers has increased by about 10 percent due to the new destination Breda and the 30-minute travel time gain for the destinations Schiphol and Breda. I can only welcome the growth of the number of travellers in a positive way. In the short term, therefore, no adjustments will be made to the tariff structure. The main incidents concern ETCS problems and problems with the pantographs of the locomotives, the pantographs, and the doors of the carriages. Improvement actions were undertaken or planned. A retrofit of the ETCS software was performed. In future, the train drivers will start a reset in the event of ETCS problems, which often solves the problem. An ad hoc international improvement team was established for the problems with the doors and the pantographs. The 1 euro supplement is a system allowance to pay the costs of ICT development and goes to that cost item in full. It is levied on all NRT bills or non-reservation tickets and therefore has nothing to do with the losses on the connection. As far as the delivery of international tickets via the vending machines is concerned, SNCB informs me that unexpected technical problems have arisen and the original planning will not be met. A thorough analysis of the problems will allow a new planning to be drawn up. Finally, please let SNCB know that she has indeed accounted for the letters you are referring to.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u89	Minister, there are positive elements in your answer, namely the short follow-up and the action plans to solve the technical problems. It is good that the line is closely monitored and that it is mainly ensured that its reliability will increase in the coming period. I understand that some commuters have left between the Noorderkempen and Antwerp and are driving again towards Antwerp, which of course cannot be the intention. We are nevertheless satisfied with the follow-up and look forward to improvement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u90	Mr Minister, since last week there has been a second player in Brussels who makes electric sub-steps available. After Troty one can now borrow a part step from Bird. Partsteps can be an ideal and durable means of transport for the first and last mile and are extremely compatible with the train. This is therefore a very interesting point for multimodality. Only the question arises as to how to look at electric steps in the framework of Belgian legislation. The Belgian Road Code provides that motorised propulsion equipment, which would seem to fall logically under these steps, is limited by the construction to a maximum speed of 18 km per hour. Motorised propulsion equipment which is faster and not a moped shall not be permitted on public roads. Since the European standard EN 17128/2017, which includes self balancing vehicles such as electric steppes, sets a maximum speed of 25 km per hour, there are actually no electric steppes on the market allowed on the Belgian public road. On a previous question from me, you replied that you intend to adjust the Road Code and to increase the maximum speed of motorized propulsion from 18 km to 25 km per hour. That has not yet been realized today. Then where do the electric steps take place? Quid with insurance if that happens to accidents? You also replied at the time that you would provide no minimum age, no helmets, no driver's license, no license plate and no further Belgian rules on technical requirements. Following the accident with the electrically driven bolderkar, last week in the Netherlands, there are doubts about this. At present, insurance is mandatory for motorised propulsion equipment. These are covered by the definition of motor vehicles in the WAM Act. That insurance obligation is likely to disappear soon. This was approved by the Council of Ministers at first reading. However, we have not yet reached that stage. Some adjustments are being made, but they are not yet complete. Minister, I have the following questions to clarify. How do you feel about the electric sections launched in Brussels? What role can they play in the context of sustainable mobility? That sounds like a positive story to me anyway. Have you had any contact with the initiators? Are the electric steps of Troty and Bird legally allowed on the public road today as they reach a maximum speed exceeding 18 km per hour due to the construction? Then how are the users of these electric steps insured? In your view, in the light of current Belgian legislation, how should the electric sub-steps be handled? What is the state of play with regard to increasing the maximum speed of the propulsion equipment up to 25 km/h? You have previously announced this in the context of the modification of the Road Code. I now understand that the Flemish Government gave a negative opinion on this last Friday. I therefore understand that we have a problem with the adoption of the amendment of the Road Code. Only last night I heard the news about this decision by the Flemish Government. Although it is not in my written question, I would have liked to have heard from you how we will deal with it. The adjustment involves a number of elements which are being implemented fairly quickly. Hopefully we will find another way to achieve this. Finally, the texts of the European standard EN17/128/2017 are only provisional texts that have not yet been completed. Moreover, they are not legally enforceable. Does that cause any problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u91	Mr President, in the context of reducing traffic congestion, I have always been in favour of intermodality and multimodality in order to reduce the share of passenger cars. In this context, electric steps are an appropriate means of transport for traveling the first and last mile in combination with, for example, the train. The initiators of Troty and Bird have not yet contacted my cabinet. The company Troty participated in the Smart Mobility Call which I wrote together with Minister De Croo this summer and is one of the projects selected by an independent jury. As you rightly point out, propulsion devices with a maximum speed of more than 18 km/h are not permitted on public roads under the traffic regulations. The aim is to increase the maximum permitted speed of propulsion equipment to 25 km/h. However, that is not the case today. This is included in the draft revision of the Road Code. If the partial step can actually reach 25 kilometers per hour, there is therefore a problem. In principle, the speed of these devices is reasonably easy to control via a chip. It should therefore be possible, pending the planned adjustments, to set them at 18 kilometres per hour for the time being. Those vehicles are excluded from the scope of Regulation 168/2013 on the approval of market surveillance of two- or three-wheeled vehicles and quadricycles. They are covered by the Machinery Directive. I therefore refer you, in terms of the more technical aspects of these devices, to my colleague responsible for Economics, Minister Peeters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u92	Mr Minister, can you say a word about the difficulties that have now arisen in the revision of the Road Code, given the negative opinion of the Flemish Government?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u93	We have been given the advice. We will study all its elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic966x.u94	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van den Bergh's 27036 was converted into a written question.
