ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u1	Colleagues, it's 2:05 p.m. We agreed to start at 2:00 p.m., I suggest we get started. I suspect Minister None will arrive at any moment. As I understand that our timing for both ministers is a little tight, I suggest that the members of the committee present do not waste any time. In view of the fact that we have a coordinated response from the Prime Minister's cabinet, it has been agreed with the members of the government that it is not necessary for both ministers to come here and explain all the details of their memo. That note dates from some time ago, because the translation has had some feet in the earth. I believe that everyone following this committee has read that note. I therefore propose that the introduction be kept brief and concise. I would like to point out that ministers are best placed to point out what has changed or evolved in the meantime. I do not want to undermine what Minister Jambon has prepared, and since the time span is rather limited, I suggest that your question is also brief and concise. I'm saying that now. Not everyone hears it, though. There's no reason to make long speeches. I believe that we should look carefully at what was important for the committee, where progress has been made, and especially where it is still failing in implementation and what the reasons for it are. If you agree, we will now begin. Minister Jambon will give us a brief introduction for the part under his jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed the intention in my introduction that the issues which have evolved since the publication of the note should be brought to light a little more. During the first debates on the report on the security architecture of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, I promised to take full action on the implementation of the recommendations made. Today, I can tell you that considerable work has been done to respond to a wide range of recommendations. However, let me make it clear from the outset that there is still work to be done. But I intend to use the time left for me, as Minister of Security and Home Affairs, to work together with my colleague from Justice to achieve a number of things. You have received the complete scoreboard, the 80 pages of which will have provided you with a clear overview of the work done so far and will have answered most of your questions. For me, the main priorities are the exchange of information and collaboration within and between the various security services. The first theme I want to address is the carrefour bank. In our capacity as Minister of the Interior and Justice, we recognize the need and the need to bring about a cultural change in the area of information sharing and to move from a need to know to a need to share. Mutual access to data banks should be encouraged to reduce the risk of information gaps. The Committee of Inquiry has proposed the use, within the security architecture, of a carrefour bank as an instrument for integrated data management and coordination between the various departments and bodies. As proof of our commitment, my colleague Koen Geens and I met together last week to arrive at the final version of a vision note which sets out an action plan defining the main lines of action for the creation of a carrefour bank such as the one envisaged. In this note, we specify that there is no question of setting up a new data bank, but an efficient IT architecture system setting the conditions for creating a secure interconnectivity between the various existing data banks, while allowing direct access to certain data. To achieve this, the following principles must be taken into account. First, the data ownership, according to which each service remains responsible for the content and quality of the data and ensures their correct and up-to-date integration into its systems. Each service must maintain the necessary autonomy in the development of information management tools. It is not a question of creating a single data bank but of having systems converge and configure so as to improve the security chain as a whole. It is therefore necessary to analyse how interoperability between information systems can be maximised. Differentiation between access systems and information flows is necessary in this respect. Access to data depends on the roles assigned to individuals and the purpose of the context. The function of a person and the nature of the fact to be detected will determine the access (or access) to the information. There is also a need to ensure compliance with the European Data Protection Directive (personal), which is logical. In order to be able to transpose these existing power lines, different modalities are possible. However, these are never an end in themselves. For example, access to data can range from full access to simple hit/no-hit access. Intermediate options are obviously possible. We believe that the system must also be equipped with a pull factor to facilitate research. In the future, the system should also be able to offer itself schematics and links to predefined users: the push factor. In addition, we must certainly consider the possibilities of artificial intelligence on the basis of support for push and pull functions in order to ensure that the analysis of these big data remains manageable. This vision note will be transmitted to the security services in the near future. A consultation committee will be set up under our leadership as competent ministers. It will consist of representatives from various security services. In the launch phase, from September to December 2018, the Concertation Committee will meet to clarify the lines of action and modalities already set out: to define the working method, to identify the legal and necessary adaptations and to examine the technical steps to be taken. The consultation committee is expected to provide us with a first report on this by the end of the year. Another important area in which we have made significant efforts is the administrative approach, which is the subject of the second part. As Minister of the Interior and Justice, we consider it necessary, in implementation of the government agreement, to strengthen local authorities in the fight against public order disturbances, common crime and organised crime. In this area, my colleague Koen Geens and I have been actively working on two laws, the first of which, on the communal administrative approach, was first read at the Council of Ministers two weeks ago. The other is linked to the first and will be finalized within a few months. Through these new laws, we intend to better arm the mayors and local authorities to deal with the gangs that, through investments, seek to carry out criminal money laundering in dark horeca shops and establishments. We want the mayors and local authorities to be able, in certain circumstances, to refuse and withdraw authorisations and permits in the presence of specific risks. In this way, we will prevent criminals from entering the legal economy. Like the Bi-Bop office in the Netherlands, Koen Geens and I intend to set up a national office to which local governments can contact for information on criminal phenomena and networks. Why a separate office at the national level? Because it is often sensitive information in terms of both privacy and judicial investigation. We therefore want to make them available to municipal administrations in certain formats only. This brings me to the Local Integral Security Cell (CSIL) component. The Committee of Inquiry recommends greater involvement of local authorities in the fight against terrorism. In this context, the mayor is entrusted with the task of setting up CSILs in his commune. The bill containing CSIL's obligation was approved at first reading by the Council of Ministers on 27 April 2018. It will be discussed in Parliament this week. In addition, a vision was developed with the federated entities on a collaborative agreement. It has been incorporated into a legislative text by a technical working group of the various competent authorities and will be the subject of consultations this week. The aim is to regulate the participation of the services of the federated entities in the CSIL, in particular, with regard to shared professional secrecy. Through their participation in the CSILs in which the mayors and municipal services are in close contact with the official information which constitutes an important link with the TFL, their information position can improve. Meanwhile, a CSIL project has already been added to the new Circular on Terrorist Fighters and Propagandists of Hate, which was published on 22 May. This circular also reinforces the local task force by setting up the TFL working group within the national task force. Our objective is to respond in this way to recommendations aimed at increasing coherence within the strategic architecture. At the political level, we have set up a working group composed of collaborators from the Prime Minister's Office, the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Security and the Interior, the Office of the Minister of Justice and the Office of the Minister of Defence. This working group met for the first time last June and Professor Willy Bruggeman, present here, was asked to clarify certain aspects of the report and recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. The consultation has been constructive and the aim will be, at a next stage, to examine the rationalizations which can still be carried out within the various existing working groups and where coordination must be carried out. I come to international cooperation. As regards the recommendations on active participation in the international decision-making process and the scrupulous implementation of international legislation, you also know that Belgium is playing an active role in the Council's JHA track in terms of strengthening the European security architecture, in particular as President of the G16, the group of countries of the European Union that are most confronted with the problem of terrorism. In recent years, in particular, agreements have been concluded within the G16 to intensify the exchange of information, mainly through better use of Europol and SIS. In the meantime, the current possibilities and cooperation agreements will be further developed. In the joint declaration on the revision of the Benelux Treaty in the field of police cooperation, which I signed in November 2016, in collaboration with Minister Geens and the competent ministers of the Netherlands and Luxembourg, three priority areas for improvement were identified. Firstly, the new Convention had to strengthen cooperation in the field of cross-border detection. Indeed, the 2004 Convention, which originated in the Belgian-Dutch cooperation under EURO 2000, places more emphasis on the tasks of administrative police. Secondly, we wanted an adapted regime for cross-border chases, which is easier to apply to police officers on the ground. Thirdly, we wanted to create new opportunities for easier and more efficient exchange of information, in particular through mutual access to each other's databases. I can tell you that the negotiations on the new Benelux Treaty have been concluded. The negotiating teams of the three countries reached agreement on 25 April on a draft text, which was then submitted for their opinion to the Benelux Committee of Lawyers and the data protection authorities of Belgium and the Netherlands. The new treaty is due to be signed on Monday 23 July. In addition to the Benelux, Belgium will continue to work closely with France and Germany to develop concrete operational initiatives. Finally, I would like to inform you that several international initiatives and also EU initiatives have since been transposed into Belgian legislation and implemented on the ground. This includes the application of the Salduz judgment, the use of the SIS system and the so-called application of PNR. The PIE or Passenger Information Unit has been operational since January 2018. After the first and largest airline, Brussels Airlines, was connected, the system now covers 33% of the total number of air passengers in Belgium, connected with 8 additional carriers. The connection process with 24 other airlines, out of a total of 80 in Belgium, is ongoing. The ambition is to connect almost all airlines by the end of 2018. Meanwhile, we are also working on the connection as a pilot project with HRT companies and also with international bus transport. In the meantime, the four competent services have seconded staff to the PIE, to work together integrated into the BEL PIE according to the principle of need to share in the case of multiple hits. This means that information will be shared automatically and immediately, if two or more services generate hits on incoming or departing passengers. As far as the international aspect is concerned, the police have meanwhile worked hard to further professionalise the processing and handling of international alerts, in various areas. The rules in force and the implementing procedures were written down in a new and separate summary sheet of the Ministerial Directive MFO3, which serves as a guide for the whole police force. Those directives were transposed into concrete procedures, in particular as regards the issue of terrorism. Indeed, certain partial aspects or details required additional clarification or specific attention to the end-users of international systems. With regard to the capacity to process all this, the central service SPOC at CGI, i.e. the international leg of the police, was structurally strengthened with ten employees and additional recruitments are ongoing. A knowledge platform was replaced, a so-called community of practice, between the central level and the AIK representatives, which specifically focuses on knowledge transfer, improvement points and awareness in the field of international information exchange and international signals. In the meantime, eight interaction days have already taken place. In addition, a number of punctual initiatives, such as the launch of real-time intelligence, the screening of publicly accessible and publicly unaccessible social media, the so-called OSINT, and the launch of the national ANPR network, were also taken into account in the police's integrated information management. More structural was also one of the POC's recommendations that the police should participate in the elaboration of a vision and an overall strategy on information management. The police have actively started working on this by writing a vision on what their information management should look like in the future. That vision is in line with our vision paper on the crossroads bank, which I have just explained. This text has also been written and needs to be validated, which will be done in the coming weeks. Finally, on information management in the police, there were also legitimate questions about improved nutrition and search of police systems, including the recommendation to convert RIR and RAR to a police report. Meanwhile, the police were instructed to work on these proposals for improvement. In the meantime, this shows that replacing RIR and RAR with a document is not as simple as it may seem at first sight. RIR and RAR have long ceased to be documents; they are part of separate information systems. RIRs are fed and questioned in the ANG and for RACs this happens in the administrative application Bepad. A technical merger of the systems is planned in the i-Police project, with only police information remaining. There is therefore no longer any distinction between judicial and administrative. In the meantime, pending i-Police, an intermediate solution is being worked out. For example, the information contained in the current reports is already available via the so-called information kiosk, also known as CIC. So police officers no longer need to question two separate systems. With regard to the input of non-concrete information, it is also desirable that the policeman in the field should no longer ask himself whether he should register the information in the administrative system or in the judicial system. For this purpose, the so-called register of signals will provide an intermediate solution. After all, an interface was built this spring, called Register Follow-ups and Signalings, whose commissioning is planned for the end of 2018. The ability to signal entities is currently specialised work, as it has to be done with an outdated and difficult application. That is why a system was built in between, allowing users to signal themselves immediately, thus making the information more accessible to all policemen. The same interface will then make it possible to merge the RIRs and RACs into a police report during the first semester of 2019. The first priority will therefore be to improve signals, with specific information available, and then to extend that register to the less specific information provided by police reports. Finally, with regard to HR in the police field, one of the recommendations was that a modern human resource policy should be promoted in the police. As part of the core tasks plan, I asked for a study on human resources policy and its possible outsourcing. The study will be presented to me on 18 July. Depending on the outcome, a project plan will have to be drawn up, which will be followed by a dedicated task force. A great deal of effort has already been made to overcome the police deficit. Through the interdepartmental commission for Terro, the capacity could be strengthened by 1 229 staff and was deployed in 2017 and 2018 on the recruitment of 1 400 prospective inspectors each. However, it remains a constant concern to eliminate the deficits in the federal police. Currently, there is a lot of deficit management being done. In other words, we are going to look at where the deficit has the greatest impact on good police work, to determine which units of additional staff should be recruited. In addition, there are many other initiatives, which are at different stages of implementation. All the initiatives are parallel. There is the biweekly steering committee, which follows up and overtakes all HR initiatives, to ensure that no efforts are lost and that everyone is kept informed of the latest state of affairs. The other initiatives include the thorough reorganisation of the influx through a renewed selection concept. For example, a new vision of the selection concept was developed and approved by the standing committee. The vision is currently translated into legislative texts and decisions, which are then discussed with the trade unions in the negotiating committee in September. In addition to this vision, an implementation plan has been drawn up, which includes concrete achievements in both the short and long term. This implementation plan is closely followed up by a task force supplemented by external consultants. One of the concrete realizations of this is the organisation of the fast tracks. Four times are planned in which the entire selection process is completed in one week: on 20 August for inspectors in Antwerp, on 27 August, 3 and 10 September for both Dutch-speaking and French-speaking agents in Brussels. The simplification of mobility and the provision of mobility on a permanent basis rather than on the basis of cycles is currently being negotiated with trade unions. The next round of negotiations is scheduled for September. In addition to all this, it is also intended that the police should be placed on the market even more as an attractive employer. To this end, the employee branding characteristics are currently being determined and validated internally. In the field of communication, there is closer cooperation between the local zones and the federal police in order to deliver the same message. With regard to the police, I would like to point out that in the meantime they have organised themselves at the level of the Commissioner-General by drawing up a follow-up table in order to coordinate the implementation of the various recommendations. Clusters were identified and pilots identified and that under the supervision of a steering group, composed of representatives of our two cabinets, both ATS debt holders and representatives of the federal and local police. The assignment of the steering group is to adopt the methodology of approach and timing, identify priorities and validate proposals. If you wish, you will be able to get further details from the new Commissioner-General next week. Colleagues, I hope it has become clear that we have not been idle and actively contributed to and will continue to do so in order to improve the integrated judicial and administrative approach between the different levels of government responsible for this. I will conclude here: all the other answers to the recommendations can be found in the full overview.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u3	With the approval of the committee, I suggest that perhaps we move immediately to the introduction of Minister None in order to be able to conduct the debate globally. I said, Minister, that this introduction may be brief. I do not want to impose a time limit on you, but I know that there is a time limit on both your agendas, and I would nevertheless like to ensure that the Commissioners are given a brief opportunity to respond to one and the other. We have taken note of the coordinated note which the Prime Minister has given us. I would therefore limit the introduction to what has in the meantime been the subject of evolution. I am happy to give you the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u4	Mr President, first of all, I apologise for my delay due to circumstances of force majeure. Ladies and gentlemen, like the other parts of the report, the security architecture part of your committee's report has been a guide to our work for over a year. This is an impressive report, which contains an impressive number of recommendations. These have been systematically reviewed with the various departments. Before I answer your questions, I would like to highlight a few areas and measures, following the safety cycle or chain, following the very comprehensive briefing by my dear colleague Jan Jambon. With regard to cooperation, intensive discussions were held between the two intelligence services, civilian service and military service, with a view to clarifying their cooperation and increasing synergies. They have prepared a draft strategic intelligence plan for submission to the National Security Council in the near future. This strategic plan specifically defines, for example, the relationship between the two services, and addresses the question of who is working on what types of threats and disciplines in data collection. It also defines the tools and forums for consultation. In particular, an exchange of liaison officers is planned and already implemented. The Monitoring Committee, composed of both Directorates, is also set up, with monthly meetings. With regard to concrete projects, the two departments identified a dozen projects, including, for example, cooperation in the HUMINT component, the intensification of the SIGINT component and international relations, such as reciprocal access to data. Finally, the action plan allocates the tasks and designates the lead among the two departments, i.e. the necessary expertise and experience in a particular area. It is therefore the latter who will decide on the operational orientation of the two services. In particular, the aim is to clarify responsibilities, including in times of crisis, in order to avoid duplication and ensure an effective division of responsibilities. Secondly, efforts have also been made with regard to the recommendations concerning the judicial police. On a regular basis, we have had discussions with the Director-General of the judicial police and with the judicial directors. The databases which manage the investigations carried out by all the executives of the federal judicial police are currently being linked, enabling investigators from one management to verify, depending on their use profile, the information present at the other management of the federal judicial police by means of direct access or a direct search. This system, which is possible by the GES technology, is applied in all management boards and this for all investigations, including when it comes to something other than terrorism. This will significantly improve the efficiency of the studies. As regards cooperation and the flow of information between the various departments and managements, directives have been drawn up which are binding and are endorsed by the College of Attorneys General this summer. It will also impose a uniform definition of the concept of third service and lay down rules on the sharing of classified information between federal police services. In future, the Director-General will play a more important role in operational coordination between management to avoid the problems identified with the red files. This does not require a legislative change, but an important cultural change on which we are working day by day. The implementation of the recommendations relating to the organisation and mission of DJ SOC Terro is at cruising speed. DJ SOC Terro developed a range of services and tailor-made support for the FGP Directorates and other entities of the Integrated Police. This is being further developed by means of agreements. I would also like to stress that the delay in the conception of judicial alerts, which was noted in your report and which caused a great deal of fuss at the time, has been completely eliminated and, as far as we can assess and follow up regularly, remains under control. The services are working hard on a complete automation of the system, of which I have made a priority. In the spring of 2019, the national roll-out of the I+ system should be a fact, which will give real-time notification of the conditions imposed to the police and the justice houses that can communicate the determination of compliance or non-compliance to the magistrate or prison in real-time. You have also heard from Mr Jambon that real time is our objective. Thirdly, the Committee of Inquiry has made several recommendations on the knowledge and motcation of dismissals by the federal prosecutors to the local prosecutors, because that too has been an issue during your investigation. With regard to the dismissals of federalised terrorist records and the executions made in such cases, the federal prosecutor is now always informing the relevant local prosecutors, the intelligence services and the relevant management of the federal judicial police. A detailed statement of reasons for the decision shall also be provided. This enables the other partners to follow up the dossier further at the administrative level or in the local task force. The automatic infflux between Justice and the police services on the consequences given to the files by the D.A. and the courts and courts was further developed. The databases of all the executives of the judicial police with which the investigations are managed are automatically supplemented daily by all the decisions taken in the files. What is new is that the system has already been extended to 20 areas of the local police. I expect that by the end of this year 75% of the local areas will be connected to that system and will therefore automatically be informed of the legal consequences of the investigations they are conducting. The next step is that Justice will be able to access the databases of the judicial police and local detectives to follow the investigation on the police side. To this end, pilot projects have been launched in Brussels, Leuven, Antwerp and East Flanders. Of course, anyone who speaks of the federal prosecutor's dismissals also immediately thinks of the necessary investigative capacity for the federal prosecutor's office. I have discussed its operation on several occasions with the College of Attorney General, the Federal Prosecutor and the Federal Police. I have instructed the DGJ, the College and the Federal Prosecutor to prepare the necessary guidelines taking into account the recommendations, so that the operation and deployment of the resources of the FGP Directorates are brought into line with the prosecution policy of the King's Attorney, and so that the areas on which the federal prosecutor will intervene will be identified as a priority, as well as the areas for which the federal prosecutor can use the investigative capacity. The registration of files at the federal prosecutor's office and the feedback on those files to the local prosecutors need to be improved. It will therefore be established and reserved when the directives are put in place this summer in the five relevant FGPs for the federal parquet research units, so that the mortgaged capacity system can be revised, replacing it with a minimum research capacity for the federal parquet in each FGP, based on the real needs, with a concentric claim model for terrorism cases. It is the Director-General responsible for coordinating management. We have made good progress in setting up the Joint Information Centre and the Joint Decision Centre. The principles and procedures have been prepared by the departments under the coordination of the Prosecutor General of Brussels. The final document is expected to be approved this Friday at the National Security Council. The Joint Information Centre and the Joint Decision Centre will initially be fully operational in Brussels. Brussels will also serve as a pilot project. However, we are also moving forward in the other springs, but initially in the form of the MoU which had already been set up in Brussels. These Joint Information and Joint Decision Centres will allow for a common assessment of information, prioritisation and a joint decision on the judicial or intelligence framework in which the investigation will continue. It is therefore also an essential part of the answer to the question of judicialization - it is the most difficult word I have encountered so far in French. Radicalism in prison is covered by the fourth part of your report, and not by the "security architecture" section. However, I am already indicating that we are working on a second action plan. I had the opportunity to talk about it at the hearing that followed the attack in Liège, but I am at your disposal to discuss it. What was good in the "security architecture" section, however, is the enforcement of sentences or the enforcement of sentences. I also mentioned it after the Liège attack and I would like to highlight a few aspects. By law of 21 December 2016, Parliament approved the draft law relating to the security period. The security period means that, on the substance of the assessment of the facts and the degree of penalty, the judge may also determine that the convicted person must stay in prison for a longer period of time before he can request the criminal execution court to obtain an early release. In other words, the time conditions in the execution of the sentence can be postponed in time by the judge. One of the crimes to which this faculty applies is precisely the terrorist crimes. In addition, in a draft law which will be discussed this week in the Council of Ministers on the basis of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry, I made the following proposals. Where the criminal enforcement court deviates from the advice of the prison director and/or the public prosecutor in the award of certain penalties, the criminal enforcement court must give specific reasons for this in its judgment. The criminal court will also have to determine in particular whether a convicted person may leave the territory during a conditional release and, if so, for what duration and frequency. For terra-convicts, the court will have to motivate that particularly. The D.A.'s office is responsible for monitoring it. Convicts for terrorist offences or convicted persons who have been radicalised can only receive a mode of execution or early release after a specialised opinion on their issues has been prepared. In addition, on the basis of that opinion, the criminal enforcement court will have the possibility to impose special conditions in the event of a positive decision relating to the follow-up of a guidance process to disengagement. We also reviewed, before the Liège attack, the flow of information about people known for terrorism or radicalism who are released from prison. In addition, I have also requested that information management be improved by centralizing the evaluation and the data of radicalized inmates with OCAM, and by extending the common data bank in this regard. Just this week, the Royal Decree is signed that the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions, in which a special cell extremism operates, will be designated as the support service of the OCAD, thereby optimizing the flow of information between the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions and the OCAD and allowing OCAD to be deployed in the first line in assessing the threats of the detainees. Finally, I can also tell you that the bill I have just mentioned contains an increase in the sentencing rate for a class of persons who have committed terrorist offences. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the few preliminary remarks I wanted to make. There is no doubt that the implementation of your recommendations has been one of the priority drivers of our work. This does not mean that we have already been able to accomplish everything; I remain aware of the work to be done. My services are equally aware of this and remain fully engaged. For my part, together with my colleague Jambon, I will continue to work on this last straight line of the legislature. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u5	Gentlemen, I thank you both for your introductions. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to remind you once again that the questions are best placed as far as possible. In the end, we all know what we are talking about. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise two points which I attach particular importance to. Minister Geens, you have already mentioned the first point, the joint decision and the joint information cells. I have a specific question about the deployment of these systems, and I would also like to check whether we interpret the recommendations correctly and in the same way. You say that we will start with Brussels and that the rest will be rolled out later, and later does not mean that the others are not working on it, but in the spirit of the recommendations it seems to me that a joint, simultaneous roll-out is preferable. Then why do you start with Brussels and follow the rest later? In this context, it is also important that in one of the recommendations we have advocated the possibility of a national scale. I would have liked to have heard in concrete terms what is going on with this national scale. The second point I would like to make is about the crossroads bank, which is actually Mr Verherstraeten's parade horse. I suppose we are on the same page about the technical content of that crossroads bank, because you have clearly defined what it should not be. I wonder if it is possible, if you share that view with us, that a general framework law will be adopted by Parliament as soon as possible, so that the various aspects can subsequently be implemented in separate laws or even royal decisions. It seems to me that the vision you are talking about, which is also the vision put forward by our committee of inquiry, should be legally anchored as soon as possible. It may be a government bill or a legislative proposal from Parliament, but that step must be taken to make it clear to all services that they must stop developing their own systems, each for themselves. It could be an important signal from Parliament to adopt a general framework law setting up a crossroads bank as soon as possible. Those are my two brief questions. I now give the floor to the committee. Mrs Onkelinx, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, M Pivin and Mr Van Hecke have asked to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u6	Mr President, I shall speak on twelve points. First, with regard to the follow-up to the recommendations, you said that you had Justice and Home Affairs coordination. Is it an integrated follow-up on all recommendations or is it only for the police? In other words, do you report to the National Security Council on everything related to the "attacks" recommendations? Secondly, on the carrefour bank, I fully agree with what the President has just said. We have to move on. I know it takes resources, I know it's technically difficult. We've been successful at the social level with the social security carrefour bank, you have to succeed. There have been big problems with the multiplication of data banks – more than 300! – with different technologies. If we want a good exchange, good information, we need to succeed in this challenge. When you say you're abandoning the project more or less, I don't understand! I really do allow myself to insist! Thirdly, Mr Justice, on the joint information centres and the joint decisions centres, you said that you were conducting a pilot project in Brussels, beyond the O.M.U. which, I suppose, already existed before March 22nd. This means that in Brussels there would also be the public prosecutor's office. I'd like that information. You said in the other PJFs, we'd start with the M.O.U. As it used to exist in Brussels and in Brussels, we would go a step further. Will it then be with the public prosecutor's office in particular? What's the difference with the M.O.U.- Is that what you're saying? Is that what has been asked at the level of the bombing commission? Fourthly, a great deal of emphasis was placed on how many problems there had been with the shortage of staff. We're often given numbers. It's always complicated because there are people who leave and others who arrive. Could it simply be seen, for example, at the level of the police and the State Security, as an increase in percentage of the framework and possibly in the increase in management. I think it's essential and makes it possible to have an exact photograph. Fifthly, with regard to the specialisation of the Terro PJF, this is a recommendation on which we have worked a great deal and which corresponds to a form of organization of police work that makes sense. Is there anything concrete about this? I didn't hear anything. What is the status of specialization? Sixth, with regard to the planned ILP cells at the level of the five PJFs, it had been found that these cells, whose main mission is to contextualize incoming information, were operational but not always interconnected, so that a single information platform was not yet available. We recommended and stressed the importance of interconnecting the ILP systems of the five specialized PJFs. Has this been done? Seventh, here is a very concrete and meaningful question, particularly in relation to the attacks in Liège. You gave this information about the links between DG PPE, i.e. the prisons and the OCAM, but we strongly recommended that prison directors have a security clearance. What are you doing here? You know we'll come back. The outcome of Committee P and R on the subject is expected, but there have been problems with this lack of security clearance for prison directors. Eighth, with regard to the FTF database, it is known that it has been extended to propagandists of hatred and radicalism of the far left and the far right. We have recently been told that the number of people on the list is limited, which can obviously be understandable for reasons of risk prioritization. A number of questions therefore arise. Who is on the list? Who's up? On the basis of what information and from what services? How do we delete from the list? Who decides? It would be interesting to have information on the subject. Ninthly, with regard to the structure of the police, the new commissioner general, Marc De Mesmaeker, said, at the time of his oath, that he had no intention at all of jostling his services with an umpteenth reform. This is nice, except that it is quite contradictory with our recommendations at the level of structures. What about your own impulse in this area? There were problems. It can be understood that Ms. De Bolle was preparing another professional horizon and there were some shortcomings with regard to the architecture and impulsiveness of the police. Tenthly, with regard to the military intelligence services and the State Security, you said, Mr. Minister of Justice, that there were a whole series of joint work projects, dialogues, strategic plans, leads in various subjects. It's obviously important, but it's been more than a decade since we've been trying to exchange information through strategic plans, and we've seen that it doesn't work. What we had imagined, for lack of a real merger, was to have a common platform and common services. In view of the state of the army's intelligence services, including counter-intelligence, it is thought that this would be more useful than ever. What's the status of this? Do you move forward on these common services and not just joint work, which is different? Eleventh, what about the evaluation of the action plan "Radicalism in prison" by the Prison Establishments DG? A new version is planned on this subject, but has the old version already been evaluated? If so, what are the main trends? Twelfth, my last question will focus on racist acts within the police and on diverse recruitment. You know that strong findings have been made, particularly in the police area of Malines. I would also like to remind you of Ms. X's testimony in this regard. We then recommended several measures, but nothing new has been implemented since then. Should new information be provided in response to these recommendations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u7	Mr President, Ministers, thank you for your presentation, as well as for the recommendations that have already been made and are being worked on. I still have a number of questions to Minister Geens concerning the execution of the sentence, which we have examined thoroughly in committee. We have also talked about the provision of the criminal court. In committee, we confirmed that posting is a very good measure. After all, we must ensure that a radicalised person is permanently controlled, even after he has left prison. One of the recommendations was that the measure should be extended to include terrorist offences, not only when they lead to death. For our party, this measure could go even further. We must think about how we can always keep a stick behind the door when people leave the prison. You explained in the Committee on Justice the measures that would be taken in response to what happened in Liège, and you just said that you would come up with an action plan. As a result of the events there, another debate has begun on how to deal with it and how best to follow those who leave prison. We have studied the board table and found that the government would like to abolish the posting, contrary to what was unanimously recommended in our committee. What are you gonna do with that? Do you intend to return to this decision? In our committee we also made a recommendation aimed at strengthening the screening of prison visitors. After all, we had noted that radicalisation is not only happening from within prison, but also that visitors radicalize prisoners. Quid with intertwining the screening of visitors to the prisons? So far, my questions for Minister None. I have another question for Minister Jambon about the LIVCs. Although we have talked about this many times, it remains unclear whether they are mandatory or not and who should be involved with shared professional secrecy. You have already said that you will soon be coming to Parliament with a draft. That is partly the answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u8	Mr President, I would like to take a look back at what my colleague has said by thanking both of you for your presentation this afternoon. I agree with everyone that much has already been done. To return to your remarks, we are called to vote on the CSIL tomorrow noon in committee. Every day, results are still obtained and it is very well so. If I may, I will ask you two questions about one aspect that takes a lot of place in this report, namely the administrative approach. We find this part in different places of the document, under different caps. It affects the legislature, the executive and local authorities. This administrative approach is a great project. We look forward to seeing it put in place. On the other hand, if I understand correctly, it will be set up in parallel with a second project, namely the creation of this famous data bank. I plan, because this is not the place to develop this aspect. In spite of everything, I wanted to know personally how the phase would take place between the two. Indeed, the former, which carries all the measures that we could benefit from in the fight against terrorism, is held in suspense until the latter reaches the same level at the level of government. What is the status of this second project? I would like to mislead you about what I read in document A3-2, which deals with mayors. It is stated that it is not possible to provide an exhaustive list of the means of action and possibilities within the framework of the mayor's powers in the field of administrative police. He also indicated that it was not desirable to do so. It's something else. I'm going to mislead you. This exists, and we received it last week, but only in the Brussels Region. So I want to be careful. A compilation was made at the level of the Brussels government on the occasion of the last Regional Security Council, which lists all the powers, either of the mayor or of the commune, and therefore of the municipal council or of the college, in various cases, in particular those relating to the fight against terrorism. There is a very complete and well-made nomenclature. Mr. Minister of the Interior, I would like to ask you two more specific questions. The first is human reinforcement. This relates to A.2.1.2.19, where you quote that in the context of the fight against terrorism and radicalism, the capacity has been strengthened by 1,129 staff. I would have liked to know the details of this so precise figure. What are the tasks assigned to the new TFL working group? I read that this new group has been meeting since January 2018 about local task forces. But reference is made to the Terrorist Fighters circular, which is not so old. I have one more question, which may also have to be addressed to the Minister of Defence. I was somewhat surprised to read about the SGRS staff that they felt they had met the needs. That's point A.2.4. One of the recommendations states "to allow the SMSR to recruit members at base". Last week, General Van de Voorde, the boss of the SGRS, did not mention it. He does not tell us that he has the opportunity to recruit military personnel at the base, nor does he seem to say that today he is being remedied for all the needs of the SGRS. So I would have liked to have a comment on this, if you are able to provide it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u9	Mr President, as requested, I will be a little more concise. My fellow Members have already asked a lot of questions and some of my questions were answered in the introduction. I'm noticing that some things are coming up in a rapid state of affairs. After all, I hear that decisions will soon be taken on a number of points which are very important to this committee. I am thinking of the National Security Council, Friday, and the College of Attorney General, within a few days, and so on. I have the impression that many things, for which time was needed to reach a consensus or to work out after consultation, will be formalised in one sense or another. What one learns from such a report and from the explanatory statement is that it has already been transposed quite concretely and it is still somewhat vague in others. There is some new information coming from the Minister today, but what is not being read is where things are going very hard internally. Ministers, my question is whether you have the impression that, among the justice services, I am thinking, among other things, of the prosecutors, the investigators, the federal police, the federal judicial police, the security of the state, the ADIV and the OCAD, all noses are in the same direction. Are there any other recommendations that you feel are being discussed in the field and that it is difficult to reach a consensus on them? We are now hearing a lot about the issues where there is a breakthrough or a decision that will be formalised in the near future, but are there still matters where you have the impression that they are still difficult, that things are blocked and that there is still work to be done? If there are, I'd like to hear it. You mentioned data management and the crossroads bank. You spoke of a vision paper that is now complete and is being worked out. Is it possible for the committee to take note of this? This is not a matter of urgency, but we would like to know whether it is going in this direction and whether we can put it in addition to our recommendations. At first sight, this note does indeed seem to me to go largely in the direction of our recommendations, but it would be interesting to take note of them. I also have questions about the role of the five FGP candidates, an important discussion point in the Committee of Inquiry. According to the Minister, the information is now being exchanged between persons who obtain certain access rights to certain files, in order to avoid a system such as the red files. My specific question is whether there is a guarantee that when new terrorist cases are launched, especially by the federal police, the necessary capacity can be allocated each time. Or were there still situations in the recent past where a team could not be deployed immediately? Can it be guaranteed today that no new red files, or whatever they are called, can be created and that the ball can be played quickly? You've also gone into the Joint Decision Centers. I have the same thought. For Brussels it is said that it will start. As for the other one, I didn't get it right. There would be a memorandum of understanding, but what exactly is the difference between the Brussels system, which is really going to start, and the other one, which is going to work with a memorandum? What's the difference between the two? If one works with a memorandum, does that mean that certain partners will not be structurally involved or that the security of the State or the ADIV will be structurally involved? What's the difference between the two systems? Would you mind explaining that for me? We'll talk about the LIVCs tomorrow. I will not go into more detail. As far as staff are concerned, we know that the task in this area is very difficult. Minister, you often get questions about capacity, not only when it comes to terror, but also when it comes to federal police, road police and so on. It is, of course, a very big challenge. You say you've already been able to do something extra on the basis of commissions in those famous interdepartmental commissions, but it's obviously a structural problem. You will not be able to draw from your interdepartmental commissions every year. The resources will have to increase structurally. Are there any guarantees that these funds will be provided in the future and that you will not be dependent on interdepartmental commissions every year? Finally, the most crucial question perhaps, Ministers, is whether you can guarantee us that the recommendations we are receiving today will be translated into reality and will be able to enter into force by the end of this legislature. Are there any files that you see are no longer feasible for this legislature? Can you confirm that you can still implement the reforms and the proposed adjustments in this legislature, if they had the normal duration? I do not speculate at the end of the legislative period on 14 October; I do mean by May.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer the questions one by one. Mr President, you asked a question about the framework law relating to the crossroads database. As I explained earlier, a consultative committee will be set up and this will have to decide by the end of the year what is legally necessary to make this possible. I will pass on your suggestion, namely first a framework law and then, so to speak, meat to the bone, because that is indeed part of their mission, which they must complete before the end of the year. Mrs Onkelinx, as far as the follow-up to the recommendations is concerned, what we wanted to say is that many of the recommendations are the responsibility of the Justice and the Interior. It is clear that the overall approach to recommendations is managed by the Chancellery. We regularly review the situation in the National Security Council. What we wanted to say is that in order to implement all of these recommendations, there is a need for close collaboration between the two departments. As far as the carrefour bank is concerned, you don't have to convince me. For me, too, it is a high priority and one of the major gaps in architecture. We are motivated to implement it as quickly as possible. Mr Van Hecke, I will take your question into account immediately. The vision paper, which we have now approved, can be made available to the Committee of Inquiry, Mr President. In this note, Ms.Onkelinx, you will see how many services are involved in this complex project – and they are numerous. Of course, this does not mean that it should not be carried out. In my view, this is the most important recommendation, because it will have a decisive impact on our security architecture. I think that, on this aspect, we are all on the same wavelength. For your specific question on the percentage of executives completed, I can provide the report to the committee at a later stage, because I do not have the exact figures in front of me. As far as the terrorist fighters' databases are concerned, the responsibility for deciding who is to be removed lies with the OCAM, since it is its owner and by definition it is the coordinating body. It is based on the information it receives from the seven, tomorrow eight, support services. The Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions (EPI) will be added. With regard to the structure of the police, you must understand that Marc De Mesmaeker meant that in the short term, we are not moving towards a very large reorganisation of the police, as you did in the 2000s. There is no doubt that there are many recommendations, and we are committed to implementing them. Mr Van Hecke, I also deal with one of your questions. You asked about points on which there is still disagreement. I'll speak open. There is indeed another issue of disagreement, in particular as to whether or not the CG should be made hierarchically the superior of the police. Not everyone's on the same page about that yet. I'd better say it. There's still work to be done. Your last question, Mrs Onkelinx, concerns the way in which racism is treated within the police. I have already explained the new concept of recruitment. We wish much more diversity, but it is not done in one day. A lot of training is planned. For example, a new training course at the Dossin barracks in Malines has already been attended by 7,000 members of the GPI. In addition, our "diversity" unit is working on training on polarization. Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, we are indeed submitting a draft law tomorrow to make the LIVCs compulsory. This takes place at two levels, the Communities and the federal government. We have already consulted a great deal with the Communities. They're all with the vision. If the Communities do not participate, the LIVCs are almost an empty box. Your colleagues who are part of the Committee on the Interior will be able to see tomorrow how we are going to organise this, in consultation with the Communities. However, previous discussions have been very constructive. Mr. Pivin, with regard to the administrative approach and phase, the aim is to vote on both bills at the same time in Parliament. The first law, which gives more power to local authorities and mayors, has already passed at first reading to the government. The next step is the request for advice not only from the Council of State but also from other institutions. It's a political agreement. We will also ask for the opinions of the various Associations of the Cities and Municipalities (Brussels, Flanders and Wallonia) but also that of the various public prosecutor's offices. We await these opinions before the passage of the first law into second reading. We have made it clear that the first reading of the second bill must be consistent with the second reading of the first bill in the government. The first bill will then be presented to Parliament. But, in this case too, the final vote will concern both laws so that the whole goes through at the same time. We will already be able to start working on what is ready and organize things. As far as human reinforcements are concerned, the figure of 1,100 you mentioned is already slightly exceeded; it is now 1,229. There are 120 people at the Brussels CIK and 25 at the Hal-Vilvorde CIK; 200 CPA; 40 for the railway police and 220 for the DAS; 270 for the DGA and the FGP; 190 for the DSU. These are the different orders of magnitude of reinforcement in human means on the basis of interdepartmental provisions. Mr. Van Hecke, you asked where things were going. I have just mentioned one thing: that is another point of reference. You also asked if the noses are in the same direction. Well, if you look at the different services today and also at the way the services work in the National Security Council, then confidence is much greater, and I can say that the noses really are in the same direction. I don't notice games or rear-guard fights anymore. However, some punctual issues are still being discussed here or there, but concepts to share information between services have been accepted, which I think is a good evolution. The note on the crossroads bank, to which you asked, will be made available. You asked a question about structural resources for staff. In my answer to that, I can add what is still difficult. Within the police, I see two really big problems. You are asking for structural funds, but I would have preferred that we had already been able to fill all the gaps for which money is available. The problem is not so much a budgetary one. The underutilisation of police forces is too great every year. The first problem, the problem of recruitment, was addressed, because in my opinion it was far too tough and was not attractive enough. We have had an audit carried out by KPMG, which has produced strong proposals, which we are now implementing. The problem of mobility in this context is being tackled in a different way, which enables permanent job vacancies to be filled, so to speak, instead of recruitment taking place in large waves, because in the latter case one hole is filled by creating new gaps. It is therefore a permanent exercise, which the recruitment policy is geared towards. The second problem concerns the procurement processes within the federal police. That problem is similar, because there are a lot of resources available within the police, but they are not all used, because the purchasing processes are heavy and cumbersome. That is what KPMG is currently working on, and I expect recommendations in this regard shortly. The two processes, recruitment and purchases, I feel, need to be thoroughly reorganised, just in order to make use of the resources available. You asked me to guarantee that everything will be started. Well, I can guarantee that everything will be set in motion. Allow me to give you an example. IPolice is a project that spans several years. In a year's time, iPolice will not be fully rolled out and operating. However, the budgets are available and are being worked on. At the end of this year, for example, the application Focus will already be rolled out to the local police. However, the entire iPolice project will not be fully completed in May 2019. The same applies to the Crossroads Bank, which will not be fully up and running with all services in a year's time. The decisions have been taken and the project has been defined and initiated. Mr President, those were my answers to most of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u11	I'll give the floor to Minister Geens in a moment. However, Minister, the Prime Minister's note regularly states that the devaluation of the 2014 optimisation is awaited. In the meantime, there have been the attacks and there are the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry. For these recommendations, you have a broad majority. I understand that KPMG's study is important. I assume, however, that we can speed up where we can?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u12	Mr President, the evaluation will be carried out in September 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u13	It will be made in September 2018. Then you'll take the final options?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u14	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u15	Mr President, perhaps first of all a word about intelligence, security, military and civilian services. I believe that I have tried to explain, to the extent possible, the specialization that the two services will propose together to the National Security Council, namely the process. What is true, Mrs Onkelinx, is that I did not say what this specialization was going to be because, precisely, it will be the subject of deliberation in the National Security Council. It goes without saying that this is a very delicate matter, but you should know that in any event there will be a proposal for specialization on both sides and even a transfer, if necessary, of certain personnel from the military intelligence service to the civilian intelligence service. We really have in mind a specialization of both services, according to a process that I have explained to you and that will be decided by the National Security Council. I am continuing with regard to civil security officers. We started out with some 500 collaborators. As of March 2017, there were 577. In March 2018, we have 636 employees or statutory members of our civil security service. Nine additional collaborators are expected this year. In 2019, up to $11 million will be used to try to find new staff, including the ICT service that was mentioned this morning in the press. We continue to try to ensure that there are more personnel with civilian intelligence. It's not always easy to find people at the right time. So we do not always know how to exhaust the appropriations that are made available, but this is a matter of time. Recruitment is getting better and better. The service has informed me that its aim is to achieve a doubling, in the medium term, of the number of its staff and I agree with this ambition. Money will not be a big problem, because the credit given to our civil service is not huge. It takes mostly time to recruit people into the labour market in order to reach the goal. I think that we are moving in the right direction. Questions were asked by the President, Ms Onkelinx and Mr. Van Hecke on Joint information centers and Joint decision centers, and the difference with the MoU. I believe that what we are trying to do right now, together with all the services, is to make progress. In Brussels there was already a MoU, in which the prosecutor's office does not normally sit. The MoU is a service in which people are not permanent. This means that the composition of the MoU meeting is variable. The prosecutor's office wasn't there. We would of course have liked to follow your recommendation to establish Joint Information and Joint Decision Centres everywhere, but given the traditions, given the available frameworks and the various meetings that have taken place, this was not yet possible. As a first step, we will only establish one in Brussels, with permanent members as well as variable members. You know that at the Joint Information Centre, the prosecutor's office is not involved, as a matter of principle. He only participates in the Joint Decision Centre. This will therefore be the case in Brussels. To my knowledge, will sit in the Joint Decision Centre: the FGP of Brussels, the DJSOC, the dirco Brussels, the intelligence services - civil and military - the OCAM, the public prosecutor's office (local prosecutor's office and federal prosecutor's office). The Brussels coordinator and director is responsible for the link with the local task force and has a coordinating role with the local police. In Brussels, there will be no more MoU; there will be a JAIC with permanent members and variable members that are changing when the time comes. These are two different bodies but can therefore take place as a meeting in a Joint Decision Centre in which the Public Prosecutor's Office participates. This was already perfectly conceivable in Brussels to take decisions on the orientation of the ongoing investigations, on destructive interventions by the intelligence services, on the information to be communicated to the mayor and the Crisis Centre and on what should be communicated to the local task force (LTF). In Brussels, this will work in a very consistent manner. What has been done in the four other areas of activity? That's where they're going to work for the first time with the MOU because it didn't exist in the other resorts. It was not possible for most services to make permanent members available. That is why it has been decided to work with an MOU in the first instance. Contrary to what has been the case in Brussels, however, the public prosecutors will take part in the MOU's. That is so if you want an intermediate form between a joint information center and a joint decision center, the critical MOU. At national level, there is currently no enthusiasm to create a joint national decision centre. You may wonder why this is so. Well, this is partly of course also a bottom-up event and it is possible to create all these organs but they must also function. We therefore thought it wise to start by following the advice we received from our services in this area and starting with a joint information and decision centre in Brussels, in the hope that this could be extended in the long term. In other words, we wanted to extend the MOU, which in Brussels had not done badly, to the resorts, but with the participation of the parquets. I will add little to what my colleague Jan Jambon said about the crossroads database. I would like to say that, of course, it is our ambition, in the first instance, to make the common database managed by the OCAD as effective as possible. We made the relevant legislation at the beginning of this legislature. I'm just passing this along as a prelude. After all, we still have to add to this common database all kinds of data that are not in it today. One can say that this should be and that it is interesting, but every time one does, a royal decision and advice from the Privacy Commission are required. That's not a matter of a fingernip and then it happened; if only. So what did we do in the database? We've added the homegrown terrorists and the hate preachers. There is the common database with foreign terrorist fighters and homegrown terrorists on the one hand and hated preachers on the other. These are already seven categories, five of which have already been mentioned and two of which we have added. Now we are going to add two more categories. That is a detail which I would like to draw your attention to. We are going to place the radicalized in prisons and the prisoners in prison for terro in separate categories in the common database, because they were not yet self-evident. Anyone who was in the database of the OCAD, as far as he or she was in prison, was in our unofficial database, CelEx, of my cell Extremism in the DG EPI, but not all of those who were familiar with my cell Extremism, were in the common database. The aim now is to ensure that these two are fully integrated and that the final assessment of whether someone belongs in that database and poses a danger is made by the OCAD, where CelEx, i.e. the administration of the Penitentiary Institutions, becomes a support service that has access to the database, provides information and so on. For example, we come to a concerted assessment of whether or not a radicalised prisoner or a convicted prisoner is a danger. In essence, we come to nine categories, one of which is the hateful preachers and the other to be divided into three parts: the FTFs, the homegrown terrorists and the prisoners in the broad sense of the word. As far as the crossroads database is concerned, I fully agree with what Mr Jambon has said and I am also anxiously waiting for all the studies that are being carried out on this subject. I would just like to say the following, as a footnote. We already have a lot of framework legislation. We already have a lot of framework laws. The latter take a lot of time. I am thinking above all of the last straight line that some of you have mentioned in talking about the end of the legislature. Last week, we had a good time in the Justice Committee to discuss the new privacy legislation. It is a gigantic framework law in which everyone will one day find himself. Since the experts are present, I would like to make a suggestion because they will be able to let me know their views on this matter immediately. Do you not think that it would be sufficient to include in specific legislation that certain services have access to data from other services? To that end, I propose that a bill be drafted in which all the services that need to be interconnected will find their place. Is it really necessary to draft a large law that will take a lot of time when the people concerned may have other priorities and when the aim is that this data bank be perfect at the level of interconnection? This is about legislative technology, not computer technology, about which I don't know anything about. I've known a number of framework laws. Thus, for example, the time we spent on the framework law on the OCAM was out of proportion to the result. Indeed, a single database was developed on this basis, by royal decree, and we are gradually completing it. So this is a huge work on which the Privacy Commission will have its say, and that will not be obvious. I know what the Privacy Act that was approved in the Justice Committee last week asked for in terms of real time spent by men and women. It's too big!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u16	May I take that for a moment, without wanting to settle the matter today? I understand your concern, Minister, but the flag "framework law" does not necessarily cover the same content. I refer to the recommendations made today by the European Parliament. They are in fact advocating the same type and concept of crossroads. Against the proliferation of computer systems and data-processing systems, which have been listed by the Committees P and I, many of which have been established illegally in recent years, I believe, would be a signal from Parliament. The various services will then have to conform to this. That is the meaning I attach to such framework legislation. I am not advocating a mastodon framework law, but an important signal. It could be compared with a situation in which a number of services are encouraged to bring in their toys, now that the playing time is over, and to work according to a specific concept in future. That's what I legally want to anchor. There is no doubt that we are considering this further, but do not doubt our good intentions in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u17	Don't doubt mine either. I agree with 3 000 % that the playing time is over. The proliferation, which is apparently much easier to develop than cooperation, must stop. As far as security clearances are concerned, for the time being, we are following the process to provide one to the prison directors. It is a prerogative of which certain services are jealous, and so it takes time. The aim is for these authorizations to be gradually granted to the directors concerned. We do not ask for any better and we will further stimulate this process. Within the framework of cooperation between the 5 FGPs of the jurisdictions, specialisation is under way. The aim is also, through consultation and the implementation of an interconnection of their data banks, that their information position be further anchored in good cooperation. In the first half of 2018, we tried to ensure that a mapping of the activities of the FGP was designed so that we could more specifically specialise the different people who work there. Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, you asked about the posting and the problem of those who are at the end of their sentence. Firstly, I would like to reiterate that, in recent years, we have tried, with different laws, such as the Martin Act and the Security Period Act, to drastically increase the powers of the Supreme Court in relation to the effective execution of penalties for severely punished persons. This means that a person sentenced to 30 years' sentence can immediately receive 23 years from the court of the bottom. Compared to what used to be the rule, that is in any case strict. Secondly, the provision of the criminal court, which used to be a matter for the government, is a measure taken by the court in the main proceedings. It is the fundamental judge who decides and it is the criminal judge who decides to what extent he or she uses it. In other words, if the court at the bottom has not delivered an opinion, it is not possible for the legislator today to give the court responsible for the execution of the sentence retroactively the possibility of patching up persons who have already been punished, on top of making them available. That's my humble opinion. I am not a great expert on Article 2 of the Criminal Code, which, as far as I know, is one of the most difficult provisions. Mr Van Hecke nods or wants to do so. But he laughs instead. That's the hardest thing there is. This measure is therefore an option for the future. If the people who have come to the end of their sentence are still willing to do so through the criminal court or through another body, they can do so. This cannot be done for those who are already in prison, unless they are punished for acts they commit in prison, such as inciting terrorism, which is always possible. Again, I do not think we can do that for people who have already been punished. Then I come to the philosophical question of whether we should keep people who are end-of-punishment and who we fear are a danger to society and who are not interned, that is a measure with another meaning........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I only want technical answers to that, because that is what people think. In the United States, at the moment, I know that there is no way of keeping these people on the leash. However, this has been done in the countries around us. In the Netherlands, for example, it is possible to give a legal person some form of posting, which leads to, for example, prohibition of contact or regular notification. That is not a measure of freedom, as our provision is one. So I don't like to use that word posting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u18	Maybe we misunderstood each other. We saw in the board table that this measure would be abolished. I'm not talking about the past, but I'm talking about the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u19	No, I am talking about the measure proposed by Mr Martens. I'm not talking about the board table.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u20	In the meantime, Mr Martens has changed his opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u21	At least that's what I was talking about. I wasn't talking about the board table. Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, the new Criminal Code did not in fact provide for the maintenance of the measure of posting. We could do that, but it is not a solution for those who have already been punished today. I want to make that clear, because that is how we create a false impression of security among the people, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh. There's no point in telling people that they're safe if they're not.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u22	There's a misconception. I read the board table, too. When one reads it, one actually gets put a little on the wrong foot. There is also the note that Mr Martens made internally for our committee, but he has now corrected it. Mr Martens has therefore revised his opinion on this matter. I was gonna give that to you. You're not far apart, I just don't know who affected who.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u23	Mr President, I just wanted to give my opinion. For the rest, it's not that important, but it's still picking up on what was already said. In other countries such as France, there is an administrative measure of a kind of posting. This administrative measure is not applied in France. It was established during the state of emergency. They were maintained after the abolition of the state of emergency. This measure concerns prohibition of contact, regular reporting, travel abroad, etc. That is the technical choice we face. Mr President, I understand you correctly. I apologize if I knock too much on the same nail but it's administratively a little easier to do it than criminally. The Netherlands is an example by which one can be inspired. I just wanted to point that out. As far as the screening of visitors is concerned, these are reported to the OCAD by the prison directories. In this respect, therefore, we are doing our job because we have access to the database. The question was whether all noses point in the same direction. That is without doubt the case. They asked what was the hardest and I was asked to give a negative point as well. I believe that we are not very advanced on security architecture as far as the structure of the police is concerned at the moment. I do not know whether this is desirable at all before the end of the legislative term. Those people are tired of reform after optimization and everything that has happened. This could be too much reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u24	Thank you for the answers. I had another comment, which you do not have to go into. I listened to what you said about the implementation of the joint decision center and joint intelligence center. If we see what position Brussels took in the whole landscape, and that is a point that we have been constantly confronted with throughout the committee, then I think it would have been better to do the implementation simultaneously in all the areas. If we now come to a decision according to certain rules, standards, procedures and a decision is reached for similar facts in another case, but not according to the same rules, then I ask myself questions. The purpose of that structure is to ensure that anyone who can contribute to a particular solution puts his piece of the puzzle on the table. In one place, we are doing so and in the other we are not doing so. That seems difficult to me, and I think this still needs some reflection. I will stick to this point for the time being and give the floor to the other Commissioners who request it for a short second round.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u25	Ministers, thank you for your answers. I'd like you to give me a few more details. To go back to what Mr President has said, I can understand that progress is still being made in the security architecture for Brussels, as envisaged by the Attentats Committee. As far as the other PJFs are concerned, taking a new step does not seem to me to be problematic, but on condition that they receive a counterpart. However, you have not shown any clarity as to the specialisation of the Terro PJF. In order for all of them to feel empowered and responsible for being operational or even becoming a reference, they must be listened to. I would remind you that we referred to specialization when we found that the lack of resources had led to the horror of red files. So I will not go back to that, but it is on the basis of a finding of deficiency that we have talked about the specialisation of PJF Terro. I would like to stress this point: it is not just a question of who is doing what – as you said – but also of what PJF is dealing with issues of terrorism, great banditry, drug trafficking or human beings. We said we would go in that direction. I think we have to do it. This would perhaps make them understand that, in the case of joint cells, a stage exists after assessing what will happen in Brussels by integrating the public prosecutor's offices. My second point concerns the carrefour bank. I disagree with the minister. I really believe that a framework law on this matter makes sense. That's the way we worked for the Social Security Carrefour Bank. It was from there that we were able to push on the accelerator pedal and mobilize everyone for the realization of steps beyond the duration of a legislature. It's important not to do it all again next time. It may not be long. Of course, the text on the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité sociale already contained 90 articles, but many of them were devoted to the safeguarding of personal data, which you no longer need, since they exist within the framework of the application of the General Data Protection Regulations. Like you, I would like to insist. About the data bank, we may have more concrete responses from the OCAM as we have been referred to it. I'm going to the police structure, Minister. You said that Marc De Mesmaeker meant that we were no longer going to work as we did for an integrated police on two levels. There will be reforms, but when? We would like to have a perspective and a time line. We have a meeting next week. We can ask him in this context. For the two State Security Forces, what you said was interesting in terms of integrated management in some areas. I would like the time line on this. With regard to racism in the police and diversified recruitment, you have spoken mainly about training. You still have a pilot project in Antwerp. However, while not all mayors are applicants, many are willing. I am thinking in particular of our former colleague in the Attentats committee, Willy Demeyer, mayor of Liège, who is in favour of it. It is a pilot project that could lead to this diverse recruitment. I didn't get an answer on the ILP cells. Unless it relates to what you said about interconnection. But this is not entirely in line with the question I asked. Finally, with regard to the evaluation of DG PPE's Radicalism Action Plan, I did not have a response either.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u26	In my turn, I would like to thank the ministers for the answer. I would like to talk about the same point as the chairman, the joint decision centers. I do not understand very well that they want to start in Brussels and apply the MOU in the other four, with the parquets. Apparently, the problem is that one could not come up with a composition with permanent members. What's the problem? Who can't send permanent members? There are only 5 PHPs. In Brussels we will do it in the other four. Can't state security send anyone permanently? Is it the ADIV? They've got 600 to 700 men. Is that the parquet? They'll add up, but not permanently. Where's the problem? Who can not delegate a permanent representative in order to be able to operate effectively? That's not clear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u27	Mr President, I do not agree with the minister's reply, concerning security clearances for prison directors, that "we are following this process". That's a funny formula! Are we moving on or not? For me, it's essential, you know. The problems we had, particularly with the attacks in Liège, concerned the lack of awareness among prison directors of a series of data in the possession of the police and intelligence services. I believe that giving them the security clearance to be able to judge on the basis of precise information is a priority. But the minister says that we "follow the process". I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u28	Mr President, I only have one question to answer. I'd like to do that and then leave, because my time is limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u29	I won't take a third round, don't worry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u30	With regard to the pilot recruitment project, this topic has already been discussed several times in the Committee on the Interior and the pilot project has been evaluated in Antwerp. The mayors of the major cities have already been informed. In particular, a meeting was held to explain the project to the mayors of the Brussels Region. What was the conclusion? There is, on the one hand, the old federal police recruitment model and, on the other hand, the new model in which local areas take a lot of initiatives. This second approach, the Antwerp approach, requires quite a lot of resources from police areas, both financial and staffing. In addition to these two possibilities, an intermediate solution that takes a little of each approach has been defined. Police zones must now determine how they want to evolve. It is also feasible for several areas. For example, in Brussels, the idea is to work together for the whole Brussels Region – the six areas, in any case those that want to participate. This is the Antwerp model. The City of Liège is also thinking about their positioning.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u31	Y a-t-il eu des incitants?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u32	Financially, you mean? No, only collaboration, support and support from the federal police in the process.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u33	Wasn't there any financial incentives in Antwerp?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u34	Antwerp did not receive a euro. This project is shared by the federal and local governments and focuses primarily on how to recruit at the local level. Second, standards are not lowered, but local areas will offer much more support to candidates to meet standards. As far as pilot projects are concerned, it is the same thing: Antwerp has not been subsidised, quite the contrary. You can always participate in the Committee on the Interior in which these topics are regularly discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u35	Minister Jambon had indeed indicated that his time was limited. Minister Geens, however, is still at his disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u36	Mr President, I believe that we must make the need a virtue for the JICs and JDCs. It is true that there was greater resistance to this immediate introduction than to the federal judicial police in the case of services which are less devolved, such as the State's security and to some extent even the public prosecutors. As a policy manager, I can only take note of that. Making the need a virtue in this case means that we are going to start in Brussels, which, given the strong concentration of terrorism in our country, can be regarded as a very good pilot project. It is not evident, of course, that there is a common evaluation of the same information in the JIC and then a common decision on the follow-up to be given to it in the JDC, departing from people who are made permanently available to that cell. Which doesn't mean they all have to be there, but they're available. For an important piece, it is a question of judicialisation, which is not so obvious for a number of services. I know that you would have preferred to see it differently, and I am telling you quite frankly that the same applies to me, but it is no different. As far as security clearances are concerned, it may be true, dear colleague Onkelinx, that I have used a strange expression. I apologise for this, but the course to deliver such an authorization, by chance, takes nine months. We're moving forward, but we're moving forward slowly because every recovery takes nine months and there are differences of opinion among the different authorities involved, as you can imagine. It would be strange if this were not the case, but you can be sure that we insist on further progress. You also asked a question about intelligence-lead police, as I understand it. It is true that at the level of the Federal Judicial Police, we will organise a "Terro Intelligence" unit that will be responsible for information on terrorism, with uniform operating rules throughout the country and uniform procedures for the sharing of information throughout the country. These cells will work according to a note that will soon be approved, as I said in my introduction, by the College of Attorneys General. It stipulates, inter alia, how unstructured information will be digested and shared, how classified information will be captured and retained, and how a uniform definition of the concept of "third party service" and "third party service rules" will be operationalized. For example, if there is a mention for Belgian eyes only or a similar mention, the third country rule will apply. I think that this way, we tried to move forward with the ILP cells. As far as specialization is concerned, it is true that I have not said much about your question because, for the time being, at the level of the Federal Judicial Police, we are trying to develop knowledge and expertise, for example with regard to Chechen terrorism, Daesh terrorism or with regard to drugs. At the moment, in each spring, we still have specialists who are not yet concentrated, but who share their knowledge. For example, if Chechen terrorism is detected in Ghent, it is difficult to bring experts from Liège on the subject. We share the expertise and concentrate, in a way, the specialists through cooperation. In any case, for the time being, they are present at the local level, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, we have done two rounds. It may be that not everyone is fully satisfied.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u38	Mr President, I did not have a reply on the timing of the joint state security and military services. What is the timeline? I would like to take this opportunity to say that on the specialisation of PJFs, this is not at all what was planned. It is not a question of sending Liegeans to Ghent if there is a problem with Chechen or other traffic but it is a question of having a reference PJF. Brussels, for example, is a terro referent, which means that when there is a problem of operational means in another PJF, it is the PJF of support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u39	Mrs Onkelinx, perhaps we do not understand each other, but I think I have explained it. This summer, together with the College of Attorneys General, we will finalize the establishment of a research capacity reserved in the various jurisdictions of the Federal Judicial Police for certain competences of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. For example, I had proposed having a research capacity reserved for the federal prosecutor's office and I was told that this was not a good idea. For the time being, we are trying to reserve a capacity of judicial police officers for the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. If it is said that 50 people from Liège will be reserved, it is not excluded that they will be reserved for federal jurisdiction X of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. It could also be said that Brussels makes available 60 persons for the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, for example for terro-jurisdiction. Federal research capacity will be made available and reserved for the federal prosecutor's office. This specialization will be introduced but there will be no specialization in the sense you want. If your words were to be understood in this sense, I had already explained it: we misunderstood each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u40	Look, when it comes to terrorism, Brussels was a reference. It is simply that she specializes in the phenomenon. This does not, of course, preclude others from managing their own files, but it is a specialisation in this field in which it is a reference. Many prerogatives are related to this. There is no question of operational capacity through a reserved capacity for the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, in terms of support and research.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u41	Partly, we say the same thing. Partly, we say something different. For the Public Prosecutor's Office, there are reference magistrates. For example, the Ghent Attorney General is responsible for food security. That exists. I believe that this does not exist in the Federal Judicial Police, and that this was not the aim, but rather to reserve capacity in a certain matter at the federal level. Your other question concerns the integrated management of intelligence services. As far as timing is concerned, liaison officers are already in place. As far as the secretariat and the joint committee are concerned, this will be gradually developed, to be fully in place by the end of the year. The transfer of military service personnel to civilian service will be limited, but will take place in the coming months if the National Security Council devotes our proposal, probably towards the end of this year. As for division of labour and specialization, I did not want to explain because this information is reserved for the National Security Council, but it will be put in place as soon as the plan is approved by the National Security Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-09-54-commissie-ic944x.u42	On this point, I will reread the recommendations very carefully, but we have talked about the reference unit for a very long time. We have also said that there are aspects of the phenomenon of terrorism which are disparate and are more research-related in certain areas than in other areas of activity. However, the art must exist, and I have also asked this question in order to be able, at some point, to scale up certain dossiers, even at national level, if this is necessary in the context of an efficient approach. I will reread the recommendations. I believe that we have given this round all the opportunities it deserves. I would remind you that next week we will receive the new Commissioner-General from the police at 1 p.m. We will be able to question him about his policy intentions and his will to reform. This seems important to me in the context of our recommendations. I would like to thank Minister Geens and his staff for their presence.
