ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the standing assembly]] Ladies and gentlemen, you all know what happened in Strasbourg last night. Three people have died and 14 are injured, seven of whom are reported to be in mortal danger. This heinous attack reminds us that the threat is still present. We must always deny any concessions to all those who undermine our choices of life and our democratic values. Today our thoughts turn to the city of Strasbourg, the victims and their families. Colleagues, what has happened is very and much worse that we should let this go, just like that, as a risk of everyday life.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again, we are starting this plenary session with a tribute, a tribute to innocent victims, struck in the heart by an ugly and cowardly attack. A vile act, in Strasbourg, aimed at innocent people in a moment of relaxation and carelessness in a Christmas market, with family, often, with friends, at a time when this market is most frequented. Again, it's barbarity that strikes. Our thoughts are, of course, for the victims, for the families, for the loved ones, for those who have lost a relative or a friend, and for those who are now fighting for life. This terrorist attack inevitably reminds us of the tragedy we experienced in Brussels. In Strasbourg, as in Zaventem and Maalbeek, it is freedom itself that has been compromised in its foundations, freedom that is the basis of our democracy and our desire to live together in harmony, the freedom on which the European project is firmly built. On behalf of the government, I want to join your feelings, Mr.President, and to say our fullest solidarity with our French friends. We are at their side for democracy, for freedom, for the rule of law, for tolerance. Let them remain our infallible landmarks to advance together!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we observe a few moments of silence in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u5	Your tens à remercier M. Wim Van der Donkt.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u6	- the draft law amending the Rail Codex, Nos 3371/1 to 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u7	- Bill to amend the Rail Code, Nos. 3371/1 to 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Laaouej has asked for the floor on our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u9	Mr President, I am dismayed to discover an amendment to the agenda of the plenary session on Thursday 20 December. I see an interversion of the scheduled agenda for the vote. The vote on motions tabled at the conclusion of inquiries would come after the vote on the draft budget. This was not reflected in the agenda approved at the Conference of Presidents. You will understand my astonishment and my questions. I hope it's not a maneuver. For this reason, however, I call for the suspension of our work and the immediate convening of a Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u10	Mr Laaouej, I take note of your remarks. Let me tell you, from a factual point of view, that you are right. That is what is on the agenda. However, I must tell you that this is really a material mistake. I therefore intend, until proven otherwise, to ensure that we stick to the usual order. A change of agenda is always possible at the request of the House, if supported by a majority. But if not, we will vote first on motions, then on drafts, proposals and everything else. I can assure you that we will stick to the usual order, and that this is a material error for which I apologize. If you are interested in your request for a Conference of Presidents, I will of course follow it. It is a parliamentary tradition. But I ask you whether you persist in your request with regard to the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u11	Mr President, I take note of your clarifications. You blame that for a mistake. I'm glad. Any other explanation would have aroused, as you imagine, more than questions. I would ask you, however, during this sitting and as soon as possible, to distribute a new and appropriate agenda, which is also available on the House's website.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u12	We're already working on it. That will be the case. Colleagues, there is an exchange of views on the consequences of the change in the composition of the government. We have agreed on speaking time, fifteen minutes for the recognized groups and eight minutes for the smaller groups. First, the speakers from the political groups will speak in the normal order. Then the government responds, after which there will be replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u13	Mr President, as regards the order of business, we are not represented in the Conference of Presidents and I have noted that she has decided in all her wisdom to put an exchange of views on the agenda today. However, I would like to know what kind of spectacle we are playing in today and what the statute for the sitting is, because the Rules of Procedure contain topical debates, oral questions and urgent questions, but the Rules of Procedure do not provide for any exchanges of views in plenary sessions. Even if that is not a unique fact, we had exchanges of views in plenary sessions following the various attacks in the past legislature, now apparently the technique is being applied to a discussion about a new government. What is that thing? What is the meaning of that? Is that a therapeutic session, as after the attacks, that talks for the often, is that a coffee chat or something that is actually being followed up? What will be the status of the Prime Minister's reply later? Is that a declaration of government or a communication of government, on which a vote of confidence will follow? I'd think that's the most logical thing, given the circumstances. If that is not the case, if it is just a talk session here, then it is purely buying time for the coffee talk that the Prime Minister is having, so to speak, with all the groups in Parliament. However, he does not do that with all the groups, because only DéFI can get coffee from the small groups. He can therefore consult all political groups on democracy when he says he wants to consult Parliament. What is much worse, however, is that we are also buying time for the government: a week's delay until next week when the UN migration pact is signed, and that is at the heart of the matter. We absolutely do not want to participate in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u14	Mrs Pas, I understand your position, but there is something like the Conference of Presidents, which has decided by consensus to hold an exchange of views. As you said yourself, an exchange of views is not new at all. Nor is it at all against the Rules of Procedure, and so I propose that the Conference's decision be respected and implemented. It goes without saying that Parliament will subsequently be able to take advantage of all the possibilities available under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u15	Mr De Roover has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, it seems to me that it is a matter of basic courtesy to congratulate you today on your new government. The birth of this is the result of a wild and somewhat unsuspecting cheating. You traded partners at the expense of your most loyal ally. Last week we found that the crib of political adultery was extremely well-stocked, because you received several partners there. However, the harsh and somewhat heated consommation of the new alliance we witnessed here proved not to be the start of a long-term loving relationship, but a one-night stand with predictable consequences: a hangover from here to Marrakesh. Your mistresses from last week are now, that was predictable, at your door to eagerly present the bill. A small variation on an old Flemish wisdom: new love rusts quickly. In less than a week, your two-thirds majority has melted to a third. That's fast. I do not need to repeat our opinion on the Global Compact for Migration here, it remains of course what it is, but you said something about the right side of history this weekend in Marrakesh. The future will judge whether you are right or not. Our opinion on this is well known. By forming a government that may only represent a third of Parliament........................................................................................................................................................................................... There's no question about that. The Marrakech coalition is now halved into a shrapnel cabinet. Until last week, you were able to count on a coalition that was also in difficult circumstances, and we have known it to be solid enough to pursue a strong policy for four and a half years. Last week, however, it appeared that the largest coalition partner, the N-VA, was no longer wanted and that it was no longer taken into account when the government had to take decisions. Our opinion was ignored. That is a respectable choice, at least in the technical sense of the word. However, it has already put us in a situation in which we had no choice but to conclude that we had become quantum négligeable in the Swedish coalition. When everyone makes it clear that one is undesirable at a party, one has to leave. Of course, Michel I's ashes were broken. In doing so, you have de facto turned the previous government into a vehicle that could no longer function. Although it is all very unclear, I believe that this means that a new government is being presented here. That this is a new government is evident from the statements of your Deputy Prime Minister, who has said that new emphasis is being placed. "New accents," he said. The vice prime minister said this team doesn't intend to do a copy-paste, so no cutting and sticking. We would really like to know what is being cut off and re-taped. Mrs De Block speaks of a new policy and, as activist as she is, has immediately added the deed to the speech. Of course, there are many things that can be linked to this, but it is a political fact of the first order. This is not about a minister who has to leave for whatever reason, it is about a fundamental reform of the majority. This is a new government, politically speaking, but it is also a legal one. In this context, I quote the words of a non-important person, who will certainly be in touch with the friends of CD&V, because that person played an important role in the Cabinets of Ministers Peeters and Crevits, in the latter case as head of the cabinet. That person used the term "constitutional hold-up'. Those are tough words. I will not go into detail, because then we will end up in a well-nuke game, although others may be trying to clarify this today, but I have noticed that you have been very creative about the rules of this House and this system over the last few days. We have asked the legal service of this House for a note on this matter and the decision was ready as pumping water. There have indeed been precedents of minority governments. But these minority governments have always had the courage to present themselves to the Chamber, to establish that the number of supporters was greater than the number of opponents. That is why the note states that, although it is not legally enforceable, "it is a constitutional custom for the new government to present itself to this House." Until then, your new team is expected to be cautious and cautious. Today, Professor Velaers, not an insignificant voice when it comes to such matters, noted that it is difficult to expect initiatives to give up confidence in this government because this government has never gained confidence. How can one take away the trust of those who have never received it? It is here, and nowhere else, that the government making power rests. I can only use this metaphor once again: a government that dares not introduce itself to Parliament for fear of being confronted with the fact that perhaps only one third of Members of this House support the project, is clearly taking the wrong side of history. We have the political evidention, we have the legal fact, we also have the political reality. I cannot imagine that you would continue to do so, but even if you were hiding behind unbelievable state-of-the-art technology, you will face the purely political fact that you cannot make decisions supported by this House. And I must tell you that it is not obvious that you would come and bake sweet sandwiches with a party that until recently was your most loyal ally, but has now been so unthinkingly thrown out of the circle of decision-making by your coalition members of the new government. You can hardly expect the cheated wife to take care of breakfast daily after the one-night stand. It is unacceptable that the government's plans for this House, for this Parliament, are unknown. We want to know these plans; we want to know which project we would or would not support or fight. Mr Prime Minister, please do so as soon as possible, because that is a democratic necessity. Present your new government, because from everything that appears or happens today, it seems that you do not know yourself either. Until then, until you do, there is actually no real government. Until then, this country is run by a lame duck. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, my group will not be asking any topical questions tomorrow. Prime Minister, the fog in which your project is shrouded must first be raised. Please let us clear up this fog so that we all know what the situation is. That is a question of democratic decency. I am perhaps creating a parliamentary unique here, because I have spoken for ten minutes although I have been given 15 minutes' speaking time. It is very difficult, Prime Minister, to spend 15 minutes discussing a project which is only unclear. That is why I shall conclude my speech here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our first duty today is to think of our fellow citizens. I'm saying this is the first duty. The spectacle – if I may say so – that your government – if I may also say so – the spectacle you give them to see is dismaying. No one's fooled. You're trying to save time by sweeping the government and Parliament. So it is no longer enough for you to come here and tell us that you are a Prime Minister in your personal capacity – which is why we asked for a break last week – to face up to your responsibilities. No! You're still trying to make us believe you've retained control. The truth is, you're no longer in control of anything. You have no more majority in this Parliament. You're underage. I tell you clearly: your way of doing politics is irresponsible. You think you can keep your hand by conducting consultations. We responded out of democratic courtesy to know your intentions. And to see again what we already knew, that you continue to negotiate with the N-VA, the party that brought you to your knees and continues to make you dance to the sound of its music. So there is no political breakup or breakup of your anti-social policy. You have the vote on the budget on line. We know that. For this most important reason, you will continue to serve the soup to the N-VA by staying, in doing so, at his mercy, you have to play Parliament for it. I tell you clearly: we will not let you ruin Parliament as you damaged your government. There is one reason for this: we are national representation, a representation on which the population counts to ensure democratic control of what you, the government, do. People are sick of it! She's tired of your maneuvers, because where the public expects you to find solutions to her problems, you spend your time trying to save what's left of your government and, let's say, trying to save your head, Prime Minister! Today, you don't bring a solution; you don't even have a start. Today, you are the source of the problem. You have moved from a situation in which the N-VA – the very one you brought to power – lowered your position as prime minister on a daily basis and did not miss any opportunity to wield democracy, to a situation of instability, not to say unconstitutional chaos. And during this time, social emergencies are relegated to the background: the expensive life, the electricity bill, the difficult endings of months, the social suffering or the growing concerns of the most fragile – pensioners and the sick in particular. In the face of this, you have still not understood that it was necessary to break up, to break up, through the adoption of a real social recovery pact. I'll come back. What has happened is, basically, in one sentence: you have passed and you continue to put your interest ahead of that of the population. This is unacceptable! I will not ignore the seriousness of the actions you have taken since Saturday. Since Saturday night, you have had no majority; we know that. You lost your coalition and your majority in half an hour's time. In terms of legitimacy, it bears a name. It's not a realignment, as you're trying to make it look like. It's about a political collapse that we need to talk about. You were already, you must remember, a minority on the francophone side. Do I have to remind you how many Francophones you represent? Barely one in three Francophones. It is obviously not only a problem of legitimacy, but also of weakness and weakness to weigh nothing. That's what allowed the N-VA to be the real boss of this government and to impose what it wanted. Is it necessary to recall the custom tax system, not to speak of privilege, for diamond-makers? The saga of INAMI numbers that do not respond to the shortage of French-speaking doctors? The work of the RER stopped for three years on the francophone side because of the budget cuts imposed on the SNCB? The planes that continue to fly over Brussels without any deviation in the course of four years? And these are just a few examples. That was already your passive. But since Saturday, you are no longer even legitimate on the Dutch-speaking side. You have lost your coalition and your majority: 52 out of 150 Members support or support you, i.e. only one third of Parliament. And on Saturday night, in the face of such a collapse, you are organizing a press conference at which you announce that everything is well and that you can continue as if nothing had happened: be quiet, brave people, the situation is under control. Don't worry, you're gonna fix it. And in what way! You played it all for everything and no doubt, thought the bigger it was, the more it would pass. This shows that as we speak, you have only one goal: to save your position as Prime Minister and what remains of your right-wing government. For that, you are ready to do anything. You are ready for all institutional shortcomings. First of all, you don't go to the King's house despite the collapse of your government. You were probably too afraid that he would tell you: "Wait! We're going to take the time to analyze, to see what solution you could find to regain a majority and thus a stability allowing, finally, to redefine a government program." No. You're on your way. You redistribute the competencies managed by three ministers and two N-VA Secretaries of State to your current team. So you're making a promotion to two Secretaries of State with a special mention for some of them who see the thickness of their ministerial portfolio so light up until now. You lose your majority and coalition, but you don't lose your interest in saving your prime minister position. So you're not going to the King's house. You decide on your own, without consultation, the convening of your Council of Ministers of a blue orange government. Mr. Michel, tell us why! You don't make a government to make a government unless it's precisely the key to understanding your actions: to guarantee your positions. No, Prime Minister, we're doing policy for a project. A government is being set up to implement a political agreement, a society project, a project government for which broad support, membership and legitimacy are sought. You did exactly the opposite. You're reassigning yourself as Prime Minister. You're reorganizing a minority team. You're minimizing your minority: 52 out of 150 MPs. You decree – it's the pompon! – that those who do not support you in this process of flight forward and save-who-may go, they, sow chaos. That is obviously the irony of the situation. You create political disorder and problems and impute them to others. It's the world upside down! Mr Michel, chaos begins with contempt for the institutions, whether the Constitution, the King or Parliament. You sat on our institutions. In doing so, you have aggravated your illegitimacy: no immediate passage through the King and therefore before your political Monopoly. It's one thing already. Then, the Royal Palace was still a little solicited but after your real fake reshuffle. At least it was expected that you would come back from Marrakesh to explain yourself to Parliament, some even asking for a formal policy statement. In this respect, Parliament's legal note and constitutional law experts say this very clearly: in such a situation, we must come to Parliament to ask for confidence. Well, no! The contempt for the institutions continues. It was necessary for certain group leaders, including me, as early as Sunday at 7.30 a.m., to request a Conference of Presidents to convene this plenary session, where you will finally be speaking. In essence, Parliament is when it suits you, when it is useful for you to get out of the claws of the N-VA or save time. That way you try to manipulate Parliament will be a landmark in history, not to your advantage. Since Saturday, four days have passed, and here you are in Parliament for a debate on your government's crisis. A debate is a lot to say: no presentation of a new programme, no declaration, no request for confidence. Mr Michel, tell us: what are you afraid of? You immediately chose the minority government, as if there was no other solution. You are now trying to impose it on the country. The central question is: why do you proceed in this way? In doing this, you have in fact set up a doubt that can be summed up in a simple question: have you really broken up with the N-VA? Let us be clear, our conviction, in observing your actions, is that not only did you not break up with the N-VA, but you continue to negotiate with it. You continue to frame with her to save time, to reach the budget vote, and above all to allow the N-VA, as well as you, to get out of this bad play with some political profit. You're trying to save time, I said. You're looking to win a position, you have to add it. But the big losers of your little games, it is our fellow citizens who, misled, witness your drifts and your maneuvers. The N-VA, on the other hand, by your fault, embraces its campaign theme: migration, so that it can run behind the Vlaams Belang. In the end, our society will continue to be energized by hateful and hateful propaganda to make social issues go unnoticed. No break with the N-VA, no break in the field of economic and social policy either. Should we emphasize that? Prime Minister, I say again: Parliament is obviously when it suits you. That is what we are telling you: you must first stop damaging our institutions. You must mark a break in your policy to repair all the damage you have caused. Make decisions against expensive life! Lower the price of electricity! Restore Health Care! Refinance SNCB! Give back hope to abused workers as to the legal age of their pension! Return to your pre-pension decisions! Stop scorning dialogue and social consultation with workers' organisations! Give those same workers the salary you took them with the index jump. Get the pensioners and the most vulnerable beneficiaries out of the social precariousness in which you plunged them. Finally, increase your ambitions, on behalf of Belgium, regarding the reduction of CO2 emissions. That is what we are asking you, Prime Minister! Send a signal, give people hope, announce and implement a fairer social and fiscal policy, to put an end to your punitive taxes. Tell us something meaningful in this rostrum! Or perhaps you will not do anything of all this: no break with the N-VA or new socially just policy. You will not present any projects, you will not come to seek support for a breach objective – we know that. That's why you're not coming to ask for trust. It is also for this reason that you do not come to demand the support of at least half of our Parliament. You have not drawn up an alternative project for Michel I: this is the sad truth. You say you need Parliament. Clearly, you want the opposition to support your right-wing policy. You've been playing the watch by sweeping the House for two weeks. That being said, we might understand that you did not ask for trust: how do you grant it? We still hear – and these words continue to resonate in this chamber – your commitments: "Never with the N-VA! Never an index jump! Don't touch the legal retirement age! No increase in VAT on electricity!" You will understand, therefore, that there is no justification today for abandoning an elemental prudence as to the scope of your statements or actions. Besides, from prudence to distrust, there is only one step, Mr. Michel. What have you negotiated with the N-VA to support your budget and right-wing policies, so that it does not force this government to fall? I ask the question to this House: what did the N-VA get in exchange for letting Mr Michel make it grow that he is still the prime minister in office? Well, ladies and gentlemen, I think the answer is simple: it is probably a list of articles of the Constitution to be revised. This is our conviction today. Prime Minister, the conclusion of these findings is simple: if you are not able to stop your theatre, if you are not able to free yourself from the grip of the N-VA, if you do not have the courage to implement a new policy of social revival, then be consistent by getting into the mainstream business. No one will be happy about such a solution, but it is certainly the only way to put an end to your harmful policy for the population. Let it be clear, Prime Minister: we prefer a government in day-to-day affairs until the next elections to pursue your right-wing policy, to continue your right-wing policy – with the N-VA, who, from the benches of this assembly, will continue to dictate its law. A government in day-to-day business is to respect the Constitution and the rules of the democratic game. The current business period will most certainly be less chaotic than the social disaster and the social tears you have imposed on the population over the past four years. Prime Minister, this is our message: it is more the day-to-day business than your government's policy of social regression!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a crossroads. We have just had very intense days at the political level. But we also have a special moment at the societal level. More than ever, citizens are concerned about their future, their bills to pay, employment prospects, purchasing power, preserving our environment and safeguarding the climate. It would be totally unconscious not to take the measure of the current situation here in Parliament, to get involved in sterile quarrels, to launch aggressive slogans against each other. This kind of attitude would only reinforce the extremes, on the left and on the right, which always end up making the citizen pay the high price. This is one of the dangers we face. It would be irresponsible for us, democrats of all political tendencies, to lose sight of it. Colleagues, a vote of confidence is mentioned here and there, the tabling of a motion of distrust, early elections. Others predict that we are heading into a stalemate that will block our country for long months. As in any thorny and complex legal matter, there are as many opinions on the issue as there are specialists. Therefore, what I remember from this debate is that, first of all, we are in a situation without any historical precedent. Secondly, I note that the 1993 reform sought to promote rationalised parliamentaryism, i.e. to guarantee the stability of our institutions in the face of the chaos caused by repeated elections and electoral campaigns. Finally, I agree with the conclusion of the Chamber's legal services that speak of a non-binding constitutional custom, which in my view means that it is a tradition but certainly not an obligation. We believe in the MR that trust is manifested mainly through support for concrete reforms such as the budget, reforms in the areas of justice, economic and social reforms. Trust must therefore be anchored in the reality of concrete measures because the question is this: do we, as elected representatives of the citizens of this nation, want an institutional and decision-making block, a long period of crisis? So when I hear Mr. Laaouej talking about spectacle, I can't help smiling by remembering the show that the PS gave, for 500 days, by negotiating with the N-VA and blocking our country institutionally. That's not what we're looking for. For us, the answer is no. The current stakes are much more important than political games. We must be able to take action and act accordingly. While there are still many dossiers on the table, many challenges to be overcome, we do not wish to provide an institutional crisis as a response to our fellow citizens, where no more significant decisions can be made, and which would leave the feeling - rightly - of an even greater gap with the political world. The next elections in May 2019 may redefine the political landscape, but it is the responsibility of all Parliament today, all parties, to ensure that the country is not paralyzed. Whether it is budget, purchasing power or security, the daily concerns of Belgians cannot be neglected or placed second to our priorities, and must instead find answers. We committed ourselves precisely to that goal four years ago. Results have already been achieved and we intend to continue our efforts in this direction. However, it is difficult to deny that the situation is, to say the least, singular. I do not agree with the pessimism of the environment. The purpose of our political commitment has always been to find solutions for the common good. This is not the first time that our country has been through a period of questioning and, each time, we have managed to bring about often creative solutions. For us, it is time for dialogue and accountability, while respecting the functioning of the institutions and the Constitution. Everyone is fully aware of an unprecedented moment. Under such circumstances, the Prime Minister and the government want to do everything possible to work with the majority of parliamentarians. It is with this in mind that yesterday the Prime Minister began a first round of negotiations, bilateral meetings, frank and constructive exchanges, which are a sign of the democratic vigour that drives our country. These exchanges will continue without denying what we have already achieved, but with a real desire to open up. We have already heard interesting proposals and concrete ideas; this work must therefore continue. In the coming weeks, it will therefore be up to Parliament to seize the hand of the Prime Minister and the government, to take responsibility and to live up to the stakes, so as not to plunge Belgium into a bad period of uncertainty, which no democratic party wants. Our only priority has always been the stability of the country and its proper functioning. As I have already said, the Belgians would not understand, would not accept a failure in the mission entrusted to us and they would be right! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not talk to you about the events of last week, nor about the resignation of the N-VA ministers, because enough has already been said and written about them. People are not waiting for us to go into this further. A great deal has also been said and written about the unpublished situation in which we find ourselves today. Much has been said and written about whether or not this government should ask the Chamber for confidence. The question is asked what we should do with the various interplays that the opposition has put forward very quickly and with its consequences. All these questions are very interesting and important from a constitutional point of view. In this context, I note that professors from various universities often express contradictory views on this issue. Some believe that the government should ask for confidence, while others say that this is not necessary. Constitutional law is apparently not an exact science. Colleagues, on which we do not disagree and on which everyone in the Chamber agrees, we need a majority in the Chamber to approve draft laws or legislative proposals. Everyone agrees that every Member of Parliament should be able to control the government. Those are the checks and balances of a parliamentary democracy that exist and that remain. So, ladies and gentlemen, I will not look back either. Done business doesn't happen again. We want to talk to you about the future. We want to talk in the Chamber about what this government and Parliament can do over the next few days, weeks and months. Ladies and gentlemen, our group wants this government and Parliament to respond to the needs and concerns of the people. We want them to answer the concerns of the man and the woman on the street. We want them to respond to the concerns of families and to the concerns of workers, employers and the self-employed. The people, colleagues, want us to accept our responsibilities. They want us to tackle the problems. They want to be governed, all the more so because we live in uncertain times. We note that economic growth is slowing down internationally. Entrepreneurs are concerned about the outcome of the Brexit. We see the threat of free trade coming towards us, with risks of job losses. We see the political instability at the borders of Europe and in the Middle East. There are our concerns for security, purchasing power and climate. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow these concerns to continue. We must not leave people in uncertainty. Colleagues, I am aware that our opinions are divided on this issue. Democracy is an organised disagreement. However, democracy is also seeking solutions, is also governance and is also taking our responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why CD&V calls on both the government and Parliament to assume that responsibility. Let us be clear: what the government decided at that time in the summer will continue to support CD&V. There are several designs and there is the 2019 budget approved by the Swedish coalition in the committee and ready for a discussion in plenary. Our group will continue to support it. A word is a word for us. I hope that the N-VA Group will also keep its word and that it will not reject what it defended yesterday and that they will also approve the draft laws which its ministers agreed and supported and in which they cooperated. We are aware that we are in an unpublished situation, ladies and gentlemen. This government and the three parties that form part of it will have to take this into account. We will govern in consultation and consultation with Parliament. That's an opportunity for the Chamber. I know that it is often said, even in this legislature, by several members of the opposition, that our parliamentary culture is too often dominated by the majority against the opposition. I recognize that, because we too have been in opposition. I remember the purple-green period, Mr Calvo and Mr Gilkinet, where we had little room for manoeuvre from the then majority. I remember the period of purple that followed, Mr Kitir and Mr Laaouej. It wasn't any other way back then. However, it is not because it was customary at the time that this should always be the case and that we should always do so in all circumstances. For Parliament, this is a unique opportunity to weigh more on political decision-making. We can leave that opportunity or we can seize it unless a majority in the Chamber wants to have an early election and run the risk of months of government negotiations, but they say it clearly and clearly in this House and to the voters! Mr Prime Minister, on Sunday you said that you had three priorities for the remaining period of your government: security, purchasing power and climate. For us, security is also a strict and fair asylum policy. For us purchasing power is the further implementation of the tax shift, so that workers will have net more left from 1 January, especially those with the lowest wages. For us, purchasing power will continue to fulfil the welfare envelope, so that in the coming months there will be EUR 353 million more for those who have the most difficulty. For us, climate and energy policy means ensuring energy supply, but above all also fulfilling our climate objectives and the commitments we have made internationally on this subject, intimately and expeditiously. Security, increasing purchasing power, a faster approach to climate objectives are the right priorities for us. I cannot imagine that these are not the right priorities for the vast majority in this Chamber either. I therefore invite you, Prime Minister, to continue discussions on these priorities with Parliament and with the political groups in order to examine what measures we can find a majority for here. I realize that this will not always be easy, but I cannot imagine that responsible politicians would refuse those vast hands. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in an unpublished situation, but an unpublished situation is not an impossible situation. Nothing is impossible if there is a political will to tackle problems. We hope that this political will is there. We are convinced that people expect us to do what we were elected to do: to continue working, to govern, to seek solutions. We will not be remembered by people for what has happened in the past, but we will be remembered for the responsibilities we assume for the future of people and businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in my turn I do not need to reconstruct the various facts and elements that led to the crisis last weekend. I would like to make one thing very clear: it was a matter of principle. I respect the principles of everyone. I've been reviewing some of the footage and slogans from the past week. Sometimes I'm glad I'm defending other principles, even though I respect the principles of others. The way in which our country is positioned on the international and European scene, Prime Minister, is, in my view, very important. We have a tradition of believing in international and multilateral cooperation to defend. We are bridge builders and have always been bridge builders in the past. In other words, we are not crawling back into our shell, even though there are trends in the world and countries that are evidently exceling in it today, the United States of America in the lead. I think the country is a little bigger than ours, but America is deliberately doing that. America blows up chords. America supports the decisions of the climate conference and subsequently withdraws, idem with arms and nuclear weapons. I can make that list even longer. That is the choice of the United States of America. Some countries on our continent do the same. If politics in Belgium does not make us happy today, then I have a good remedy against it. Look at the BBC, look at what's going on in the UK. There is a country there that is painfully aware today that the consequences of an easy yes or no vote are slightly more complex than what was thought at the time of the referendum. It is a mistake to think that problems can be solved by a yes or a no vote in a referendum. Today we are seeing in the UK where that leads. That is not the way we are going. That's not the tradition of our country. Prime Minister, you have said abroad, I support you in saying that you want to be on the right side of history. You are certainly doing so with the full force of the conviction that is mine and that of my group. To those Members who take a different view and think that there must be constant threats to leave the UN and not to support a free trade agreement, I would like to say this to colleagues from the PS, who have made a big problem with the fact that we are concluding a free trade agreement with Canada, let me say very clearly: everyone has their own principles. The only thing I blame some parties for in connection with the crisis over the last few days is that it took them two years to reach that decision, and then it is obvious that three other parties are simply changing their minds. I do not want to be on the wrong side of the international scene, Prime Minister. You've made a decision with the government. Before that decision, you were also backed by a fairly large majority here in the Chamber. I shall then come to the role of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, let us spare each other the observation that what the government is making today has no majority in the Chamber. We can table motions of all kinds, motions of confidence, motions of mistrust. Prime Minister, everyone knows that you have no majority, strictly speaking, from your coalition. The question that then arises is whether we should resign from the King, followed by elections and a government in current affairs? Let's leave the country unmanaged? Or is there a possibility that you will be able to continue working with Parliament today? We have chosen the second option over the last few days, and I refer to what Mr Verherstraeten has already said. I think that over the next few weeks and months we still have a number of cats to fling. I am thinking of the Brexit, the threatening power shortage, the execution of the labor deal. Our country has the "luxury" that one can create jobs, screaming for meaning. There is also the interprofessional agreement. If we are concerned about the action of the yellow hoops, I refer to an important additional disc in the reduction of charges, which is to come, but perhaps the government and Parliament can do a little more in the negotiations between employers and employees if we do not get out of it, because purchasing power concerns people and us. So many challenges still deserve an answer in the coming weeks and months. In short, it is not the time, Prime Minister, to throw the towel in the ring. Now is the time to put your hands together, now is the time to take responsibility. It must be taken up not only by the remaining government parties, but by all the democratic groups in our House. I say it again: we can play the game of motions. One can try to explain that to the outside world as a matter of confidence and mistrust. One important innovation has been introduced in our House: the constructive motion of censure. It is not because a number of parties today criticize your behaviour, that a contrario would result in the sum of what exists in all those groups that do not agree, and would result in an administrative majority with a proposal from Prime Minister. Let this be precisely the essence, Mr President, which the note from the Legal Service ignores: the constructive motion of censure, which is responding to all the groups that want to do it differently, in order to seek a majority. So it is not just a matter of saying that the Prime Minister no longer has a majority in Parliament. I would like to invite the largest of these groups, the N-VA and the PS, for example, to sit around the table together. Well, it will take more than a few days to come to an agreement. So one cannot always charge one-sidedly against you, Prime Minister; that all the groups accept their responsibilities. Let us also see exactly what is being asked by all these groups. You are conducting these talks, Prime Minister; in the last few hours you have met all the political groups. I read in there things like cutting back the pension reform and the index measure, which is coming back on the table. Apparently, all the possible things that we have done together over the past few weeks, months and years are being called into question. But is that what the country needs? We think the answer is no. So I would like to argue, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for a minority government with a very clear compass. That compass is the coalition agreement and the reforms that were already in the scaffolding. The government has put forward a draft budget in Parliament. The government has also submitted a policy statement. With this policy statement, Parliament has given the government confidence in the course of October this year. We call for all these elements to be implemented as fully as possible. This includes, among other things, the continuation of the pension reform that our country needs. I am also thinking of the increase in purchasing power, which will take place in January 2019. I also mention the twenty measures of the employment deal, which we all believe are important to ensure that the increased number of jobs is effectively filled by as many people as possible. In our country, we need an increase in the level of activity. If we can bring the level of activity to the level of the neighbouring countries, then a large part of this problem has already been solved. So we want the economy to move forward. That was, is and remains for us the core business of the government. Let that be the priority of the minority cabinet. Challenges remain on the agenda in the coming weeks, such as the climate and the interprofessional agreement. I propose that we look at it with Parliament, which does not dissolve itself, and with the government, which is and will remain in office. That's also taking responsibility. Today is December 12th. All the groups in the hemisphere are aware that any dissolution of Parliament will result in elections to the federal chamber on a very short date, about the end of January. In May there will also be elections for regional parliaments and the European Parliament. Does one of the MPs really think that political stability can now be established by provoking elections which could lead to a newly constituted Parliament at the earliest by the end of January, so that we can see our country go back into an electoral campaign with a view to the elections to the Land Parliaments and the European Parliament? Please think twice before you take such a step. Let's deal with that responsibly. That is not only the responsibility of the government, it is also a responsibility of all the groups in the hemisphere, Mr Bonte. Until today, I do not hear any group arguing for early elections. If we do not want that, let Parliament play its full role in the last few months before the elections in May. That is the appeal I make to Parliament. We must be careful what the government can and cannot do. I don't think we have any other choice. Anyone who advocates a different scenario is actually pouring the country into immobility for six months, which does not benefit citizens and businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u21	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today there is chaos and uncertainty. And let us be clear, Mr Dewael: that is not our responsibility. The MR, the N-VA, CD&V and the Open Vld promised four years ago that there would be change, but your recovery government mainly caused social degradation. We have not forgotten that you have raised your retirement age to 67 years, in a fingernip. We have not forgotten that you have increased the VAT on electricity. We have not forgotten that you entered an index jump of 2 %; so I can continue. After four years of squabbling, there's nothing left but chaos. The N-VA got out this weekend. She has chosen to turn her cart and oppose anything related to migration. You, Prime Minister, have decided to put together a minority government, of which everyone is today asking what legitimacy it has to govern. Our country deserves better. Our country deserves stability. People deserve security. We have been in opposition to this antisocial government for four years. We have put alternatives on the table every day, every week. Because we believe that people deserve security. Security on a lower electricity bill by lowering the VAT on electricity. Security on a lower hospital bill by removing the supplements and by strengthening the maximum invoice. Security on higher wages, the margin of pay must be restored, and the social partners must be given every opportunity to negotiate on this. All these proposals were voted down eagerly. You may argue about who is responsible for this chaos, but one thing is certain: we are not the cause of it. The position of my party is clear. What is unacceptable to us, Prime Minister, is that you are about to declare that you simply want to continue with your minority government with full powers. I hear Mr Verherstraeten saying that you must implement Michel I's coalition agreement. I hear Mr Dewael say that you must implement the Michel I coalition agreement. That is unacceptable to us, let us be clear. Mr Beke of CD&V, who would be the social face of this government, said yesterday that this is not a new government. He was talking about the orange-blue coalition, not Michel II. In his view, it is the existing government from which a party resigned and in which a number of ministers were replaced. If that is the statute of your government and if you still want to work within the Michel I coalition agreement, then you should not count on the support of the sp.a. We do not intend to allow you to continue working on the social breakdown you have already been working on. We do not intend to allow the employment deal to be just approved. As a result, you are going to reduce the benefits of the job seeker and push them into poverty. As a result, you are going to abolish the possibility for people with a heavy occupation to slow down from 55 years. We will not support that, Prime Minister. There are also principles in our party, let us be clear about that. You came to Parliament last week because you had a problem in your government. Then you called Parliament the heart of democracy. It therefore seems logical to me that after the change of government you should come to the heart of democracy and ask for confidence. When I hear Mr Dewael, it seems as if this minority government, which is well aware that it has only 52 seats in 150, is aware that it will not be able to work because it may not receive support, and certainly not if it is intended to continue the social breakdown. I too do not need 15 minutes of speaking time to be clear. We have just one question, Prime Minister: do you intend to implement the Michel I coalition agreement? If so, do you intend to submit a statement of confidence today or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, allow me to begin with the positive news, with the compliments. My group would like to thank you very much for your speech last Monday in the United Nations gallery in Marrakesh. As a progressive and Belgian, I was proud to see that our country has received applause there, that our country has shown the voice of humanity and that the coalition of cooperation and humanity in this Parliament has put Belgium back on the map. Mr De Roover, you just spoke of deceit. The only deception that has been at stake in the past has been the lies and the falsehoods of the radical right about the UN migration pact, lies and falsehoods that have been on the websites of the N-VA and the Flemish Interest to date. You also just spoke of adultery and a new majority who would sleep together. It had nothing to do with that, but I am glad that this Parliament said no to your flirtation with Filip Dewinter last Thursday. Colleagues, that is what happened and I am proud of it. It also shows that this Parliament is capable of a great deal, that there is much that can be done when people in this House of Democracy join forces. Everyone knows our opinion in four and a half years Michel and that opinion will not change. It is precisely because four and a half years of MR and N-VA have shown above all the strength of destruction that we want to spend the next six months usefully, to get to work. We have heard the priorities of this new team, of this half government. And they sound like music to us. It is a mea culpa and it is a victory for all those Belgians who have been on the streets for purchasing power and climate. However, identifying the priorities is one thing, doing something about it is another. And then a lot of things have to change. There's priority security. This has been supported by the Committee of Inquiry into the terrorist attacks. Many of these recommendations still need to be implemented. Let's get to work on that, please. There's the priority climate. There are ministers who have changed posts, unfortunately the Minister has remained the same in terms of climate. A great deal needs to be done in this area, ladies and gentlemen. Our group, represented by colleagues Almaci and Nollet, will invite you to a first appointment to become a climate leader. The third priority in the list is purchasing power. Prime Minister, it must be about more purchasing power and not less. Mr Verherstraeten, you are talking about the implementation of the coalition agreement. I'll tell you more about that later. However, I would like to invite you to make sure that one paragraph is implemented, in particular the paragraph which states that this government will increase benefits to the poverty line. I see and hear colleagues wondering whether the minority cabinet will be able to do so. Well, if a minority cabinet has ever managed to settle the school struggle, then a minority cabinet must also be able to settle the fight against poverty. So, I'd love to work together, but a lot of things have to change. For us, a fourth shipyard has to be opened, which is Belgium's place in the world. At the same time as there are politicians in this country asking us to leave the United Nations de facto, we say that we must work together here and now to write a clear letter of mandate for the deepening of the European Union and for our mission in the UN Security Council. Mr Verherstraeten, Mr Dewael, we also have the love for parliamentary democracy. However, it is a little bit of a late conversion. What I have just heard does not demonstrate parliamentary democracy. That is a dictation or an attempt at dictation of a mini-majority, of a minority. You say you're gonna do the work deal. Is that parliamentary democracy? Mr Dewael, the only thing you can do in this House with regard to the employment deal is ask the Council of State for an opinion. And then you'll have to make sure that Bart De Wever is there to make sure you get 50 votes. It's either working together or in the abyss. We're not just gonna do the work deal. I have addressed my colleagues, but now I am addressing you, Prime Minister. You're facing a choice. We want to show the bright side of politics in the near future, but then the love of parliamentary democracy must be authentic; then the urge for cooperation must be lived through and that must be realized every day. You can't organize a fight divorce and then ask the others to watch out for the kids. You cannot ask us to simply implement the N-VA policy. If you want to work with us, you're gonna have to change things. No hair on my head thinking of approving this budget! So you're going to have to choose. We've given you a week to figure things out. We'll talk to you, and you've noticed that in the last few days. However, you will have to look Members of Parliament in the eye. You can't just start a government. You have to ask for trust somewhere. You have to make a choice: either you are a government in current affairs, or you are looking with us for a way of working together. Two cases one. In 2014, you chose to merge, among other things, the MR and the N-VA to form a government. Today you have to make another choice. If you make a different choice, we will be an ally, but if you stick to the same choice, then I think you will have to organize your own stuff.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u23	Mr President, Prime Minister, last Thursday, a coalition of progress and goodwill emerged to give you a mandate, that of approving in Marrakech the Pact on Migration, with an obligation of result that you assumed in the rostrum of the United Nations. Thank you for that! When you think about it, it is crazy that all this has been necessary since this text has been the subject of a long external and internal journey, that it does not lay down any binding rules, that it sets out simply obvious principles, that it proposes a framework that is the beginning of a response to an issue that affects hundreds of thousands of people around the world, one of the greatest political challenges we have to face today. It is crazy that such efforts and a crisis are needed today to vote and adopt such a text. This is a worrying development in the positioning of the States of the world, including Belgium of the MR/N-VA government. This is a development that we must fight. Will it still be possible to work multilaterally tomorrow? Would it still be possible to adopt a text such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights today? This is a question that all democrats must ask themselves, and it is the meaning to give to the initiatives that we have taken over the past month to get Belgium on the "good side of history", as you said. It wasn't about saving the MR/N-VA government, Mr. Michel. Its record is not good; it is even very bad. You leave the country in a state as pitiful as your government. In budgetary matters, slippage continues despite the efforts required of our fellow citizens and the extremely favourable international circumstances. In social matters, index jump, weakened social security, decline in Eurostat's poverty statistics. In economic terms, jobs, but which and how much compared to neighbouring countries. In the area of justice, the state of our courts and tribunals is an allegory of the state of justice. With regard to tax justice and the fight against financial crime, fundamental freedoms and mobility, we have never had so many bottlings and company cars. On environmental and climate issues, we will see that COP24 has not yet been completed. We're waiting for you on the subject. Prime Minister, do not believe that your presence in Marrakech will obscure your entire record, make us forget it, or make our fellow citizens forget it. The evil is done, it is deep and much deeper than you try to make it believe. Your responsibility in this matter is total. Since the beginning of the legislature, environmentalists have been hard when needed, that is, often. But they have been systematically looking for solutions and alternatives. They have taken initiatives. We have tabled an alternative budget. We offered you an investment plan, BE.invest. We have tabled this resolution on the Migration Pact, which allows you to get out of your government. We have tabled, again this week, a resolution on the climate, which could also allow Belgium to be on the right side of history. Our point of view and method will not change in the present crisis. We say stop negative measures in the areas of pensions, employment and the management of the asylum crisis. We say yes to urgent measures in the fields of social justice, tax justice and climate justice. You no longer have the excuse of the N-VA! But with what status? That's the question. You can't, as you're trying to make him believe, act like nothing is happening. This is no longer the Michel 1 government. I hear it's not the Michel 2 or 1.2 government. Maybe it's the Michel 0.5 government? I rest the question: with what status? You are de facto, Prime Minister, in day-to-day business for six months. Next, you must choose: either with the N-VA and the pursuit of your destructive policies, or in search of positive coalitions (climate coalition, social justice coalition, tax justice coalition, etc.).). From now on, you can give a signal, during the climate debate that we have asked for and that will follow this debate on the government crisis. This climate debate is also, if not much more important than this debate on the government crisis. But you won't be able to win on both tables, Prime Minister. We're not gonna sign you a blank check. Nor will we accept that you overturn the roles and responsibilities. For the past four and a half years, we have shown, through our attitude, a leadership, a handshake, proposals and we expect your response in this regard, on the understanding that the meeting is already set. This is the meeting of May 26, 2019. We are already ready with a solid, supportive, sustainable, ambitious and resolutely forward-looking alternative.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u24	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you have made the choice of governing with the N-VA for a little over four years. It was your choice. It wasn't ours. Now you have to bear the consequences. The N-VA has chosen to play on the fear of citizens in the face of migration. It has done so while being within the government itself, repeatedly, until this campaign of false, racist communication that pits people against each other. She blackmailed you to try to get you to deny Belgium's commitment to the UN Pact, which aims to better regulate migration. Thanks to the opposition, thanks to Parliament, thanks to our support, you have been able to stand up and I welcome it. You chose the Democratic side, not the extreme side. But Belgium is now plunged into a political crisis. This crisis is your crisis. It is up to you to get the country out of the chaos in which the majority choice with the N-VA plunges us today. Let me tell you how much the citizens observe this crisis with total incomprehension, sometimes even with disgust; incomprehension on the reasons for this crisis; incomprehension on the way in which policies act; incomprehension with this sluggish question: is not all this a game of fools that should allow each other to position themselves at best and launch their electoral campaign? Is not all this also orchestrated to weaken our institutions, to weaken Belgium? What better way for a separatist party than to destabilise Belgium from within the government itself? A new government, Michel II, was put in place last weekend. You must, here in the gallery of the House, explain to the 11 million Belgians what the programme of your new government is. Are you going to pursue with the N-VA the policy you have pursued so far, thanks to a pass-through that allows you to move from a MR/N-VA government to a MR/N-VA majority? The calls I heard earlier from colleagues on the CD&V, but also from the Vld, which call on the N-VA to continue to support them from Parliament, are of particular concern. Since yesterday, you have consulted the various political groups in the Chamber. On the side of the CDH, we refuse to participate in small political games and in the pathetic show of recent weeks. This crisis is serious and it is the government's responsibility to get out of it from the top. But this crisis may also be an opportunity to measure what people are living on a daily basis, and to try to renew the dialogue between politicians and citizens; an opportunity to take more just, socially fairer measures, on health, pensions, purchasing power; to be much more ambitious on the climate, to make progress on energy and mobility. This crisis is also an opportunity to remove from the management of the Belgian federal government a separatist party that wishes to disappear. What we want, you will understand, is a change of course for the benefit of the citizens. We want to take advantage of the next few months to make positive and concrete progress for the citizens, who expect something more from politics than from postures. So you're in front of a choice for the next few months. A government whose program has been remotely controlled by the N-VA since Parliament. I have no doubt, moreover, that the N-VA will be able to raise the auctions even better, to tighten socio-economic policy even further and to freeze any climate progress. Or it is a government that wants to work on positive, concrete, socially fairer and more ambitious measures with regard to the climate challenge. We are submitting this proposal to you. It would of course be much easier for us to stay on the balcony, letting you manage on your own. We want to go back to the essentials, thinking about the citizen and taking the opportunity offered to resolutely change course in a few months. Prime Minister, to be on the right side of history at the international level, as you have said, is good; but it is urgent that you also find yourself on the right side of the present for the Belgians, for their well-being, for their purchasing power. It is also urgent to position yourself on the bright side of the future for the planet and for the climate. It is up to you today to make a choice and to explain it – it is important – to our fellow citizens, to whom you owe clarity and transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u25	Prime Minister, stop it. That's enough. Stop it and let the voter judge. The therapeutic persistence with which this government is artificially kept alive defies all imagination and ensures that public opinion finally turns away from politics. Colleagues, for the past few days Charles Michel has carried out half a coup d'état. The Marrakesh Government hardly represents one in three voters, does not ask Parliament's confidence and acts as if nothing had happened. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen in this hemisphere, let this Parliament, too, let me say to you, Mr President-in-Office, reduce itself to a very expensive debate club. Today, this popular saying applies: "We drink a glass, pee a puddle and everything remains as it was." This Parliament reminds me of the Spanish Parliament on 23 February 1981. Then a certain Colonel Tejero of the Guardia Civil tried to seize power. He jumped on the seat of a parliament like this, in Madrid, and shot three times in the air. Some plaster fell down and all the great democrats, all the Spanish MEPs shook their pants and were all flat on the belly behind their benches. No one dared to stand up. No one dared even point out to Tejero that he was making a coup. No one dared physically defend democracy. Today, the coup army only shoots in its own foot, not even in the ceiling, but MEPs are also lying flat behind their benches, paralyzed by the fear, not of the Prime Minister, but paralyzed by the fear of the electorate, Mr Peeters. You are afraid of the electorate, and that is why you are afraid to hold the debate today as it should be, with motions on whether or not to dismiss the government. That is why we are hiding behind an exchange of views as if we were sitting at the bar. We are discussing today so that Michel can buy some time until after the famous United Nations meeting on Wednesday 19 December in New York, where the pact will also be finally approved by that country. Moreover, I doubt, Prime Minister, whether your government of current affairs can legally endorse that pact. The Council of State will be informed on Monday of our urgent request on this matter. We shall see what the Council of State has to say about this. I noticed that 95% of the debate and discussions over the last few days were not about the Marrakesh immigration pact, but about the status of the government, about the interpretation of the Constitution and, above all, about how your parties can win the next elections. N-VA group leader De Roover, too, has not spoken today about this famous pact, which we could all talk about. Stop the circus, colleagues. Everyone has to ask themselves who benefits from this vaudeville. Who ultimately pays the bill for all this? Meanwhile, while the N-VA washes its hands in innocence and opts for the opposition flight ahead, Michel pretends nothing happened. Ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, the electorate pays the price, because Marrakesh will certainly be there now that no more action is being taken. Once again, for me today is not the fall of this government but the fall of the Marrakesh Pact. However, if the government has to fall definitively in order to undo the Belgian aid to Marrakesh, then so be it. Why else would this crisis be? Why else would the government's largest majority party be dismissed? Why else all this charade, all this show? I therefore call on the N-VA not under any circumstances to support or even tolerate this Marrakesh government. I call on them to overthrow this government today or at least before 19 December. A motion of censure must be adopted and new elections must be organised. In the long term, this means that our country cannot and will not support the Marrakesh Pact. At least that's what I'm talking about. So vote this fake government home. Give Michel his C4 for incompetence and let the electorate decide as it goes in a democracy, Mr Dewael. Are you afraid of the voter? That is clear from what I have heard here. Are you afraid of the voter's judgment? Mr Beke, ask the voter's opinion instead of isolating you from the voter and locking you up in this ivory tower. Instead of staring at our own navel, which we have been doing for weeks now, let us have the debate on immigration policy. Ladies and gentlemen, we have rightly held a minute's silence here. Yesterday, you saw the effects of the Marrakesh Open Border Policy in practice. You could see the consequences of the multiculture resulting from the Marrakesh Pact in action in Strasbourg. It was yet another Islamic terror attack, with four dead and dozens wounded. Those who import Islamic child soldiers via the Marrakech mass immigration should not be surprised that we are facing an adult war in Europe. Mrs De Block, who, as the new Secretary of State for Migration, immediately symbolically, as an activist, multicultural militant, shrugged back the previous Secretary of State's decisions, should not be surprised. If one opens the front door of the house on his Marrakesh to more and more asylum and happiness seekers, one should not be surprised when those same asylum seekers disappear along the back door with the house council and the savings. Prime Minister, you said in Marrakesh that Belgium is on the right side of history. Ladies and gentlemen who support the Marrakech Pact, you were on the side of those countries that have applauded the Prime Minister, on the side of Iran, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Angola, Zimbabwe, Eritrea, Congo, Cuba, Turkey and Somalia on Monday. These countries have not only signed the Marrakesh Pact, but are, like Belgium, whole or disguised dictatorships. Prime Minister, you may be on the right side of history and say that you are on the right side of history, and we, with our European partners, are on the right side of the future. That future is not determined by Islamic and Third World dictatorships that support you, but by great democracies such as the United States of America, such as Italy, Austria, Poland, Hungary, Australia and other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u26	Mr Dewinter, your speaking time has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u27	Prime Minister, and I particularly call on the representatives of the people here, at least try not to let your democratic convictions frame you in an exchange of views. Dare say no and njet and basta to the half coup that the Prime Minister has committed. Finally, let us ensure that this Parliament radiates the primacy of politics and democracy. Let's be the representatives of the people. Send this government home, write elections, and let the people judge.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, last week, our assembly saved our country's honour before the international community. It took the will of the democratic parties, the majority and opposition, to allow you to declare in the rostrum of the United Nations that our country was standing on the right side of history. This force of Parliament failed the blackmail of the N-VA, which was returned to its natural alliances with the Belang. This week, the time has come to know, Prime Minister, whether you still have the ability to stay on the right side of history or whether you are rushing the country into an institutional drift detrimental to the protection of our people. Because it is ultra-minoritarian, your government has no capacity to act. This is the result of your choice of a grievous alliance with a party that has nothing but contempt for the Belgian institutions. Therefore, you have the choice today, Prime Minister: either you continue to push the institutions of this country into the naught institutional of the N-VA, or you return to the traditional functioning of our institutions and allow the citizens to know what political alliances you want to favour for the last months of this legislature. For it is a democratic requirement of transparency that every citizen has to know which majority is the basis of government action and for which projects. In our parliamentary tradition, there is no minority government that can hold for a long time, or it is in day-to-day business. There is no full-function minority government if the parliamentary majority on which it can rely is not clearly identified and certain. Now, by the statements of some of the MR officials, your government would like to succeed in the perfect holding-up and shopping, At the same time, you would like to go to the shop of the N-VA to vote for the 2019 budget or to follow the policy pursued in recent years with the known dissatisfactions and failures in social, retirement, worker protection, defense of the judiciary – which has been so mistreated by your government – in short of everything that has ultimately undermined the trust of citizens and the role of the state. At the same time, you would like to go shopping with some opposition parties to try to rehabilitate, where you have failed: the climate emergency, the fight against the rise of social insecurity, the preservation of the purchasing power of the middle classes and the most vulnerable, the challenge of controlled mobility, tax fairness, the restoration of the authority of the judiciary. Today, you are forced to choose, Prime Minister. Either you persist in your sneaky connivance with the N-VA that has led to so many failures, or you give a chance to partially restore the confidence of citizens in our institutions and you permanently turn your back on the N-VA. You won't be able to perpetuate the mystery and the lying poker game. Now you have to choose between preserving your past connivances or looking to the future. But the future is to enable citizens to have the power of the last word in a fully informed democracy. You want to hide your alliances. Nor will you be able to hide this dishonesty that leads to the preservation of a grievous alliance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u29	Prime Minister, you said in Marrakesh that you want to be on the right side of history and that that is not the side of Viktor Orbán. Well, I can reassure you, you're not on Viktor Orbán's side. Viktor Orbán still has a majority in his parliament, not you. As I know you, as a democrat, I find it difficult to imagine that you find that a comfortable situation. Let's see what you've done so far. You have been to the King with a royal decision on the redeployment of your government, and you have asked the King to sign it. Could the King say no? The King can only say no with your agreement, because the King must be covered by the Prime Minister. This shows once again the complete absurdity of the monarchy. You go to the King and if he says yes to your question, he must be covered by you. If he says no, he should be covered by you, too. How absurd can it be? The fact that you are making the King a hand puppet doesn't really bother my group, you will understand. But that you play soloslim in a democracy, that's something else. We don't mind. Let us take a look at the statute of your government. Do you have a new government? I hear Mr Beke say that the government is the continuation of the Michael I government. Mr Beke, you are a doctor in Political Science. Surely I can assume that you know the criteria used in the investigation to know when there is a new government? There is a new government in one of the three following cases: after new elections, after the change of the Prime Minister, or after a change in the composition of the coalition as regards the participating parties. I can't help it either, but those are the criteria. It's a new government. (Protests from Mr Beke) I wasn't supposed to interrupt earlier, but I'd like you, Mr. Beke.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u30	You continue, Mr Vuye. This is not a personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u31	Mr Beke, those are the three criteria. So there's a new government. You may say a thousand more times that it is not true, but that does not mean it is true. What's the situation now? I hear a number of people from the opposition, including Mr Crombez, saying that the status of the government is not clear. People are talking, among other things, about 'cautious matters'. My group has done searches, which apparently is always dangerous, if we do so. Mr Prime Minister, we have examined what your predecessors thought of that. Wilfried Martens said here in the Chamber on 8 May 1979 that there is also a government in 'preliminary matters', as long as it has not gained confidence. Mr De Croo may think that Wilfried Martens, someone from CD&V circles, is not really a reliable source. I would add immediately that a reliable source in the same meeting also used that criterion, in particular Minister of State Herman De Croo. So, Prime Minister, the government is one in current affairs. There is no doubt about that. We will put those texts on our web site so that anyone who wants to attack your decisions can also use them. If your predecessors here indicate what a government is in current affairs, you should not pretend to have a government with full authority, as Mr Dewael claims. I have some understanding for you. The N-VA has had a Marrakesh experience. What is a Marrakesh experience? This is either an aha-erlebnis or an aha experience, in which it is argued with two years' delay that it is a matter of principles. Colleagues of the N-VA, you must imagine that someone at work does not look at a file for two years and then suddenly says that it is a matter of principle. I don't think any employee would get away with that. No one was gonna get away with that. You're trying to get away with that now. What should you do now, Prime Minister? Heer Clarinval had het daarnet over a non-binding constitutional custom. But a constitutional habit is indeed a rule of law. Let us not call each other Liezebet: there is no such thing as a non-binding rule of law. So you must respect that rule of law, Prime Minister, and you must ask for confidence. Moreover, Prime Minister, since 1831, four prime ministers have shown this to you. All four of them have asked for confidence. In 1926 it was Aloys Van de Vyvere, in 1946 Paul-Henri Spaak, in 1958 Gaston Eyskens and in 1974 Leo Tindemans. Shouldn't Charles Michel be asking for that trust in 2018? I'm gonna have to be explained. Why do you have to ask for trust? That rule is actually very simple. What are you now and then I'm talking about the excellencies for me? Let me reassure you: you are Minister, you have that post. What you do not have, however, is the government making power. You don't have the power to conduct policy. You don't have the power of change either, because it ran away. You don't have the power to conduct policy, because you have to get it here, in the Chamber. Mr Prime Minister, will you ask for confidence here, as all your predecessors have done in a similar situation? None of them didn't do it. Mr Dewael spoke a few moments ago about immobilisation, but not asking for confidence will make your government and the country immobile. That will be the result, if you do not ask for trust. I would also like to point out that the population is mostly tired of it. People are not concerned about the name of the government, Michel I or Michel II, but they are concerned about their purchasing power. It is best to stop this bad play, in which very bad legal arguments are put forward, and to deal with matters that are of real concern to the people, such as their purchasing power. Purchasing power worries people. I live like you in Walloon Brabant. It is one of the richest Walloon provinces. Well, I had beggars at my door last week, people who couldn't afford their hospital bills anymore. They had to come begging. I'm terribly sorry about that. That is the kind of problem we need to solve, rather than having to discuss what we are going to do with Michel II, because Michel II is you, despite what Mr Beke says.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u32	Prime Minister, the spectacle continues. It was bad enough last week, and now it goes on. The population no longer understands exactly what it is about. No one here understands what this is all about. Is it a new government now or is it not a new government? Is it not a new government, but with a new policy, with a new emphasis, as Mr Peeters put it, or is it an old government without a new accent? People don't understand what you're doing anymore. No one understands anything you're putting on your feet right now. It is not clear whether there should be a vote of confidence. It is not clear whether a motion of censure should be voted on. Nothing's clear anymore. The comedy continues. You are even taking Mr De Crem out of school, Mr De Crem, who may have found it somewhat ambivalent to be a minister again. People don't know what they're doing here anymore. The public no longer understands anything about this lamentable spectacle. That is what is very serious. If, at least, everyone could play cards on the table, because the comedy lasted long enough: the N-VA is supposedly in dispute with the MR, but discussions are already underway to conclude a new agreement after 26 May next. Many sources indicate that, last Thursday, you already knew that the N-VA was going to leave the government. This means that the Council of Ministers held on Saturday night was pure comedy. How did you prepare this Council? Did you organize sketches or role-playing? We have seen a lamentable spectacle at the political level. Don't be surprised today to see the citizens disgusted with politics. Frankly, take your responsibilities! Prime Minister, you have met with the traditional parties to try to help yourself. You said you didn't want to meet with all the parties, including the PTB, which you don't think is a democratic party. You still have to dare! You, the MR, who want to continue to lead a full-fledged government with 52 out of 150 MPs, are you going to teach us the lesson in democracy? Frankly, you're not ashamed? You must really dare! You only have 52 MPs; how can you continue to lead as if nothing was happening? This is the first reason why you must ask for a vote of confidence in Parliament if you are a democrat, but do not teach others. On the other hand, you're right in the sense that I don't think our meeting would have brought much, that's clear. I'm going to be honest on this point: ask for help while you've got yourself in trouble, do you really think the PTB is coming to get you out of there? Let's be clear! Who can still believe you? [[...]] You can keep laughing, Mr. Reynders, but people outside, they don't laugh. Do you hear how sick people are, Mr. Reynders?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u33	You too!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u34	Mr. President, do you hear that? Minister Reynders says people are tired of the PTB. I can tell you that people are tired of you at the MR. People are tired of it and don't believe you anymore. You say you have three priorities, Mr. Reynders. First, purchasing power, as you announced in 2014. And paf! An index jump! Who can still believe you? You said your second priority was climate. On December 2, 75,000 people demonstrated, Mr. Reynders. Two days later, your minister flew in a private jet in Poland. Why? To vote against two climate resolutions. And people still have to believe you, Mr. Reynders? Come on, please! Third priority, Prime Minister, justice. In 2014, you already announced that this would be your priority. Have you seen the state of the courthouses? The ceilings fall flatly in Namur. Who can still believe, Prime Minister, that you intend to pursue a policy of rupture? No one! It's obvious you won't be able to count on us. The real vote of distrust, ladies and gentlemen – you have not yet seen everything – will be Friday on the street. The workers will be on the street, a major mobilization coming from the three regions of the country. It will be a real vote of distrust. The mobilization of the yellow vests will continue. A new mobilization is scheduled for Saturday. The climate movement will continue with action on Sunday too to remind you, everyone, of your obligations. The real vote of distrust will be there. This is one of the reasons why the PTB will of course be present in these various mobilisations, in order to demand a change in political action. Prime Minister, you have not answered this question: do you intend to use the N-VA to continue your anti-social policy? Will you come back to these anti-social measures for the suppression of credit-time? Mr. Bacquelaine, you're deleting the time credit. Will you come back to that decision? People have the right to rest at the end of their careers. You remove any form of right to a credit-time after 55 years. This is a scandal, Minister of Pensions! That's why people are mobilizing. Will you come back to the question of the degression of unemployment benefits, mijnheer Peeters? Mr Peeters, do you come back to the degressivity of unemployment benefits? Are you going to come back to that decision? 1 011 euros per month, ladies and gentlemen! And we're gonna say, "Ah! People are better looking for work!" People are going to look harder for a job if they get 1 100 euros a month. Who in Parliament can live with EUR 1 000 per month? You want to find an alternative solution with other opposition parties, so that people have to live at EUR 1 100 per month? It can't be. This mobilization of yellow vests on Saturday is based on the question: are you going to reduce VAT from 21% to 6% on electricity? That is the question, minister. You don't answer any of this. You're just thinking about one thing: how to keep your power, how to make agreements with the N-VA, how to hold until May 25. The clear question before you today is: are you going to ask for a vote of confidence? Prime Minister, you have to answer that. It's elementary. If this democracy is respected, you must indeed ask for a vote of confidence. I am already telling you that we will not vote in favour of this confidence. But you're scared that others don't either. That is why you want to short-circuit democratic mechanisms. I say again, the question that is important to all of us here is: are you going to ask for Parliament's confidence next Tuesday? You can only get it if there is a break with that right-wing policy you have pursued with the N-VA. This one put pressure on you, but you assume this policy as the MR. People are tired of this right-wing policy. You'll see what happens in the coming weeks. It is not only in France that social mobilization is very intense. In Belgium too. Yes or no will you break up? Otherwise, frankly, drop the case! Let go of this government! I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u35	Mr President, Prime Minister, what a mess, what a mess! You who often talked about Belgium's reputation on the international stage, you made it look good! What a disrespect for our fellow citizens! Your government has just lost its majority on questions of principle, while extremely important projects still need to be finalized, in the interests of our citizens, our businesses and the economic recovery of this country. By these last decisions, you have demonstrated the importance of Belgian citizens in your policy. So don't be surprised at a staggering rise of populists, as you call them, in Europe. These people for whom you feel the greatest contempt protect them, their people, what you do not. You say you put Belgium on the right side of history. This is your feeling and that of a majority of my colleagues, but certainly not of the majority of the population, for whom you have been rather backwards of history. You are experiencing the worst difficulties in solving our country's North-South problems and you claim to want to resolve global complications. This becomes stupidity! The Soir would say: "Charles Michel, this herald that the UN no longer expected", "heraut" meaning the messenger responsible for making the announcements in the assemblies and declaring war. Indeed, you have just declared war on the values of Belgium with incredible carelessness, taken under the diktat of the UN and the progressives, those who constantly boast of wanting to protect our social security system but who continue to destroy it indirectly. Just look at the protests on the street to realize it, and I dare not even consider mentioning social networks. You have also just declared the war to your former government partner without whom you could never have been prime minister. I am talking about the N-VA, a party on which you still intend to rely in order to continue to govern Belgium because you fear to go back through the ballot box, which would be, by the way, an act that would demonstrate a certain greatness. No, as soon as the divorce is pronounced, you prefer to declare a speech overwhelming them to want to instrumentalize the Covenant to collate lies and untruths in order to arouse fear and encourage the selfish withdrawals on oneself that you compare, in addition, to the two world wars. It's not a mistake, it's a mistake! You have not understood anything at the will of the Belgian people. Yes, he's scared! Yes, he's anxious! In view of the events we have experienced in Paris, Brussels, Nice and, again, Strasbourg yesterday, he is entitled to be afraid of your interpretation of multilateralism. You have your own reading of the Covenant, but you're not necessarily right. As one of your ministers often says, it is not because we constantly repeat falsehoods that this necessarily becomes the truth. Now that you have sacrificed your government to go parade in front of the UN stands, to the point of stealing the star from the German Chancellor, what are you going to do? How will you govern our country? For, as your former majority partner said, the seat of our democracy is in Brussels and not in Marrakech. The People's Party wants clarity on the future. Mr Michel, you are a danger to Belgium and our democracy. You're overstepping the Constitution. You do not report to the King of the crisis that undermines your government and, worse still, you substitute for him for the appointment of ministers. Moreover, did you have the right to engage Belgium in the UN, being at the head of a minority government? You represent the government, not Parliament. For this defiance of democracy alone, you must no longer be the prime minister of this country's government. In fact, since 2014, you represent only 30% of Walloons and now 36% of Flemish people. This is obviously not enough. Although you may miscarriage the employment rate or the debt figures, they are ruthless. You no longer deserve Parliament's confidence. On the contrary! I am speaking to you, ladies and gentlemen, who have been so critical of the policy of the Michel I government. Will you suddenly give him your trust? Will the Pact go into the shadows of raising the pension age, jumping the index and increasing the VAT on electricity? You're gonna have to say something. If it's not about trust, it'll be about distrust. This will allow citizens to appreciate the centre of gravity and the importance you attach to them. It is imperative that you be transparent with them. Mr Michel, you who are so fond of falling back on yourself, because you have so often talked about it, you are busy folding Belgium's future over yourself. Open up, as you open our borders to the whole world, and let's see what citizens think. Then, if you finally deign to respond to the questions, spare me your names as "extreme right" and "populist", because these terms become tiresome, obsolete and ridiculous, as they highlight your lack of argumentation. Your Europe, which you boast of wanting to save, is beginning to be famously populated by far-right people and populists. And it is not by persisting in the sense that you claim to assign to history that you are going to stem this phenomenon. From then on, Mr. Michel, will you have the overt courage to govern with a very small minority, while giving history lessons to the whole world? In the current situation, you will not gain the confidence of the People's Party, as you no longer have the confidence of a majority of citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted that I can have an open dialogue and an open discussion on a difficult and complicated political situation. First, I want to look at the facts, to understand what the situation is today. A few weeks ago we saw in Parliament, in the democratic debates, but also in the Council of Ministers, that we were faced with a political difficulty in the Council of Ministers and within the political majority with regard to the Global Compact for Migration. I have had the opportunity, on several occasions in Parliament, to present the state of the discussions within the government on this subject. Last week, I found that it was probably necessary to come to Parliament to ask him about the choice he wished to make in connection with this Pact, for which I had, since September, engaged Belgium in the rostrum of the United Nations. Thursday's parliamentary debate was intense, clear, clear, in which several rightly interpreted the vote by a two-thirds majority of this House as constituting an obligation of result for the Prime Minister facing internal difficulties in his majority and also having to take into account the strong signal from Parliament. It seems to me, therefore, in a very natural and logical way that, on Saturday in the Council of Ministers, I asked the substantial question, the fundamental question: is there a consensus in the Council of Ministers to question the decision that had been taken and that I had announced in the rostrum of the United Nations? I asked that question. It's a matter of responsibility. And this is indeed the demonstration, Mr Laaouej – I say very kindly – that it is not the head of a prime minister or the functions of one or the other, but rather a question of conviction, of taking into account a strong signal from Parliament. In the past, others in my place have made different choices. I therefore assumed the consequences of this decision by noting that an important partner in the coalition, the largest political party in this House, chose, as I confirmed my decision to implement the choice that had been made, to withdraw from the government. Then I come to the first important point. My reaction on Saturday evening was based on my political will to go to this UN conference, with the full support of Belgium, not as spokesman for this Parliament, but also to engage our country, knowing that this conference is a first step towards a decisive step with the vote in the UN General Assembly within a few days. I have therefore naturally found, in full respect of the institutions in these difficult political times, that it is possible to propose to the King the appointment of two Secretaries of State as ministers in order to ensure that I am present at this United Nations conference with a government in a position to engage our country on this important subject, in accordance with Parliament's wishes. It seems to me important to highlight this. I would also like to express my thanks to the N-VA for the last four years, before giving a few messages on the legitimate questions that have been raised about the current political situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u37	I assume the economic and social results, I assume our security bilan, I assume the measures taken by the four government partners together: there are more than two hundred thousand jobs in our country today, the labour market has been reformed and we have made clear choices for more security and for more capacity in the fight against terror. Therefore, as far as I am concerned, I absolutely want to convey the commitment that has been made over the last four years, while noting that, on a fundamental point – the question of Belgium's place and the consideration it enjoys at European and international level, and the question of migration – there is a divergence of views that has been fatal to this parliamentary majority supporting the government. Finally, I would like to express my astonishment at some of the analyses I have heard, a few moments ago in this rostrum. On Saturday evening, in an initial reaction following the important decision of the Council of Ministers, with all the consequences for the political majority, I immediately announced that my first priority was to be present and to represent our country at the UN, and to consult Parliament immediately afterwards, taking into account a new and different political situation. That is why some people imagine that this government, which does not have a majority – at this stage in any case – would like to claim, through me, that nothing would have happened at all, that it would not have any consequence. There are consequences, the first of them being that, I solemnly say today, the prerogatives of this government are limited. In these circumstances, the government must act prudently to take account of this parliamentary political situation. I will, of course, make sure that the Constitution, even if sometimes it can give rise to interpretations – the law being a human science – can highlight the need, as others have said, to enforce these checks and balances that are so important to guarantee the democratic framework. I'll give you a few more important additional elements. I have heard on many democratic banks that organising early elections for these parties would not be a proper choice. I have heard on most of the benches of democratic parties that the choice to bring about early elections is perhaps not the most opportune for the country. I assume that these reasonings are expressed because many – with the political experience present in this assembly – measure well that early elections a few months before the May 2019 elections would pose the risk of a difficulty in forming a government until the regional elections have taken place, as well as the risk of a long situation of instability and political insecurity. What surprises me – and I say it with great calm, serenity and delicacy – is that those who say they do not want early elections have been pushing me for a few hours or days to take action that leads either to a risk of immobilism and inability to act for many months, or to have to lead the early elections they claim not to want. In such a moment, I call for a minimum of consistency in the positions expressed. As far as I'm concerned, I'm trying to maintain that consistency. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are several options based on the Constitution. It is clear that a government without a majority in Parliament can never force Parliament to adopt a law. That's a fact, that's the reality. Following the important reform of the Constitution a few years ago, these two major possibilities exist. MEPs have the opportunity to table a motion of censure, to provoke a momentum of truth in Parliament, possibly leading to early elections. There is also the possibility that the government is asking for trust. This is the balance in our Constitution, between an opportunity for the opposition or for Parliament – because the situation is a little confused today – to ask at every moment the question of distrust of the government and the possibility for the government to ask this question of trust, which is its responsibility. This is the balance of responsibilities within the Constitution. I really ask that this reality be taken into account. In addition to this debate which may lead to early elections or not to early elections, but a situation of government which is no longer operational and which is resigning, is there a path that is possible? I think there's a way that's possible. Of course, I won't be able to coerce anyone! There will have to be a capacity, a willingness on the part of Parliament to take this path. What is this path? This path exists – and it is a tradition we do not know at home – in thirteen other European countries. In 13 other European countries, there are governments which are not supported by a majority but which, in a partnership, cooperate with Parliament, are able to conduct a number of debates and take a number of decisions. As far as I am concerned, that is of course a possibility. Perhaps it is an opportunity to take into account everyday reality. Mrs Fonck made a very important point. The task of the government and Parliament is to do everything in its power to provide the best response to people's expectations. That is why, as early as this Sunday, we have taken the option of reasoning on the basis of a road map around three subjects, which have been found in almost every intervention in this rostrum. Which ones are they? This is obviously not, since there are, in any case, elections in May 2019, relaunching a major declaration on a large government agreement, as if we were starting a new legislature. That would not be realistic. What is it? To look at whether it is possible for a number of issues before us, some of which are inevitable, to show responsibility at the level of government, to show responsibility and active work also at the level of Parliament to get the country to be represented, to take some decisions. What are these themes before us? There is, of course, the budgetary debate, which is not simple. A process has been initiated. Votes took place in committee. Parliament will have to take a decision on the budgetary question, with the consequences. Everyone is aware that a country without a budget is potentially in difficulties when it comes to realising the effects of the tax shift in 2019, when it comes to the welfare envelope, when it comes to the effects on our debt, for example in the control of the European Commission of Belgium. Everyone in Parliament will have to take responsibility for this. It is a decision of Parliament. Another example is purchasing power. In the coming weeks there will be important consultations between the social partners in our country to make choices on wages based on the legislation in force. It is quite possible that a government will have to play an arbitration role on the basis of its responsibilities and its powers in this matter, with effects on people's wages. That's what this is about. I come to another aspect in relation to the economic and social situation. As you know, we are facing the issue of Brexit at the international level. In a few hours, perhaps, there will be debates in the British Parliament which could have serious consequences for Britain and the rest of Europe. Belgium is one of the countries most affected by the Brexit, with potentially severe economic consequences for jobs, for people's purchasing power, for investment in our country. Do we want a situation in Belgium over the next few days or weeks that does not give us the opportunity to defend the interests of our fellow citizens at European level? Or do we think that on such a subject it should be possible in a responsible dialogue, government and Parliament, to give mandates that effectively allow our country's interests to be represented at European level? Let me give you another example. The European budget will have a serious impact on the coming years. During the discussions on the European budget, do we want Belgium to leave an empty seat at European level for something that is so important for our businesses and for our agricultural sector, for example? Is that what we want? That is the question that will have to be asked sooner or later, in the next few hours, in the next few days. Another example. Belgium has been elected non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council. We want a situation in which Belgium, with an important election, with an important recognition of our credibility at European level... Is it hoped that in January we will begin this mandate by finding ourselves unable to embody several decisions and represent many international and geopolitical interests? Indeed, this would be the result of an impossibility to find this path which – I am doing it well – is narrow, in order to find this capacity for cooperation. I can continue by quoting many other examples. Other examples are purchasing power, the international situation and security. Difficult and important discussions on the status of police officers are taking place at this time. We have again seen, next to home in Strasbourg, that the threat is present, real and not virtual. Do we want to be able to provide our security forces with capabilities so that they have, day after day, resources at their disposal? Do we want to be able to resolve these difficult questions about the status of police officers? The third important point, after purchasing power and security, is climate policy. We will have an in-depth debate on this in due course, and I look forward to it. A few days ago, a major climate march took place, an important signal from our people. Do we want to be blind to that? Do people want to be deaf to that? Are we going to consider on such a subject that, for many months, we will not be able to give impetus to ensure that there is more ambition, as I wish, but also more operational capacity to work together with the federal government and the federated entities? In this area, it is not the federal Parliament and the federal government alone that have a responsibility for energy, mobility and climate. They are also federated entities! You fully understand, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, that I wanted to speak to you in this debate with frankness and openness. It goes without saying that, in this political moment when I and others have taken on my responsibilities, we are faced with a situation in which this government must be prudent. This government will therefore be prudent. However, should this government be irresponsible? I don't think so. This government must be responsible. The proposal I want to put forward in this democratic debate is the way forward, it is the idea, it is the reasoning that touches on this conviction that a prudent and responsible government that cooperates with an active and committed Parliament can be an opportunity, in the coming months, to ensure that the interests of our fellow citizens are defended and borne; that it can be demonstrated in accordance with the general interest and the interest of responsibility. We will indeed see, in the hours and days ahead, what will be the choices of each other. My intention and wish are to continue very quickly these contacts which I have been able to carry out with a number of you until today and for which I would also like to thank you. During these contacts, I found that many of you had a sense of responsibility, a sense of nuance, a sense of constructive spirit that must honour us. That's what this is about! I'll make it up to you. A few days ago, I also made a personal choice. I found that there was a problem in the majority. I also noted this in the Council of Ministers, and I had to make a personal choice at that time. And I made this choice in conscience, conviction and responsibility. This choice has led to consequences. The first consequence is that I have fulfilled Parliament's two-thirds wish and that I still wish to be able to honour it when it comes to voting at the United Nations on 19 or 20 December. The second consequence is that we must indeed show responsibility and maturity to ensure that, in the coming months, our country is protected and defended, and that the interests of our citizens are protected and defended; that is my responsibility and that is my commitment!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that it was agreed at the Conference of Presidents that the groups represented in the Conference should be given five minutes' speaking time for their reply and the other groups three minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, you said that we had a dialogue here. Good. The definition of dialogue remains unclear. Of course, this was not a statement of government, either formally or in substance. That means we're still moving in a flou artistique. From a democratic point of view, it would be a good thing for you to clarify this as soon as possible. It is obvious that until then we do not actually have a government at full power. This responsibility must also be taken into account. That word has been used a great deal here today, but I would like to say how strange it is that this sense of responsibility was not to the same extent present in last week's parliamentary debate. They knew what the consequences were, and we did not leave any ambiguity about them. I have no problem with the choices that were made. When you say that you have made your choice in full conscience and conviction, you have made the choice not only to go to Marrakesh, but also to break Michel I's axis. You knew this was the consequence of that choice, and you will now have to live with your coalition partners. Of course, you can't make half a choice. I see from the uncomfortable body language of a number of excellences here that they assumed that they could break our arm, that they could force us to make a choice that was mentioned here in principle. Well, if that choice was fundamental to you, then so was she for us. However, I have noted that you have made this important decision for what you do not consider to be a non-binding pact that does not change the current situation. That is what your groups put forward here last week. If you think you need to break the ashes of a well-functioning government to have a non-binding pact in Marrakesh, which does not change the situation by smashing the throats of the main coalition partner, then the responsibility for it is enormous. It's with the three who chose it last week. We have made no mistake about this. You cannot bear half the consequences of a decision, you must bear the totality of the consequences. These consequences are that we do not have a working government today. This means that we cannot work on all the important points that could have been addressed within the Swedish coalition and with the Swedish coalition agreement. We have concluded this coalition agreement together and the N-VA has acted faithfully, consistently and consensually until the very last moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, I would first like to draw your attention to one point. Clearly, your notion of day-to-day affairs does not correspond to what has already happened in our country. Do I have to remind you, since you mentioned Brexit, that our country, in its current affairs, has never ceased to be represented at European and international level? The only difference is that you will have to come to Parliament to look for a mandate to determine Belgium's position in international fora. That's the only difference. On the notion of day-to-day business, I think it may be necessary for you to revisit the elements that distinguish day-to-day business from prudent business. For the rest, there is something that is unacceptable in the way you present things, and that is to blame Parliament, and the opposition in particular, for the problems that you have caused yourself. As if, because we do not agree to sign a blank cheque, we would be responsible for early elections. It's the world upside down, Prime Minister! It was you who created this situation because you failed to get along with yourself in your old majority. Another point on which I also want to tell you things as they are: what we are proposing is an alternative. First branch of the alternative: you definitely break with the old majority that included the N-VA. This implies a clarification of your relationship with the N-VA. I understood, at the start of your speech, that we were still very far from it. It is also the end of your anti-social policy, with clear commitments on wages, how to repair the damage caused by index jumps, on social protections, health care, reinvestment in SNCB, pensions, pre-pensions, climate commitments. That is what we would have liked to hear from you, Prime Minister! To this, we have not been able to earn anything in terms of commitments on your part. Second branch of the alternative, we continue to tell you: yes, we prefer to see you in day-to-day business rather than to see you, with the support of the N-VA, probably from the benches of what would be an 'opposition-participation', continue to develop an anti-social, brutal and harmful policy for the population. The choice is yours, Prime Minister. Don't reverse the roles! That is why we have tabled a motion, a motion asking you to come back to this Parliament to clarify the commitments you are prepared to make and, above all, to ask for its confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u41	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply, although that was not very clear today either. What are you going to do? Firstly, we had all learned by now that your government was a minority government. You have explained to us that a vote of confidence or a motion of censure can be tabled. As I said before, the present chaos is your chaos. It's the chaos of your government, which is no longer a government. And then you have the nerve to thank the party that left the government during this plenary session. You thank her for the current chaos. You thank her for the good cooperation. Well, that's way out of my league. That's way out of my league. You state that you have bilateral consultations with all parties and that you want to listen to everyone, on the one hand, but today you thank the N-VA, which is the cause of the current chaos, on the other. You also state that this government has no full authority. I'm glad to hear that. Then what is your government? Will it take implementing decisions? Will you or will you not implement the summer agreement? You're not clear on what you want to do. What also bothers me in this discussion is that you have the guts to point to the opposition and say that it is either for Prime Minister Michel or for chaos. Let me make this clear. We don't direct elections. It's a problem in your government. The largest party has left the government and you have formed a minority government. We live in a democratic country, so you need a majority. If you want a majority, you will come to Parliament and tell us clearly what you want to do and what you do not want to do. If you really appreciate democracy, then you come to ask for a vote of confidence and then you can work freely and make sure that there is no chaos. The key is in your hands, the key is not in the opposition, the key is in your hands, Prime Minister. So I repeat my appeal: be ready and clear about what you want to do with your minority government and how you want to involve Parliament. Come to Parliament and ask for a vote of confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u42	Prime Minister, you have not said very much, which is normal somewhere, but everyone feels that this unclear situation is not sustainable. Today, reference has been made to minority kabinets rather in history that have demanded confidence. Gaston Eyskens (PPE). - (NL) I am not often quoting Christian Democrats, but in 1958 Parliament called on us to focus on the future, on the great challenges facing the country. That is also our belief. If the Canadian minority cabinet has ever approved the right to marry for Holebi's, then the Belgian Parliament should also be able to settle a climate breakthrough in the coming months. What bothers me more today than your meaningless speech, Prime Minister, is the attitude of colleagues Verherstraeten and Dewael, which in no way indicates that they want to engage in this cooperation in a genuine and authentic way. However, that should be the mode, yet I would suspect that the Open Vld and CD&V would be liberated from the N-VA carcan somewhere. I would think that CD&V immediately sees opportunities to do something for the people who are having a hard time. I would think that Mr Dewael is getting excited to launch a pro-European coalition in this House now that the Eurosceptics have left the ship. But no, he's talking about implementing the coalition agreement. That is why a vote of confidence and the debate on it is inevitable. The Prime Minister's future is not the most important thing for us, we are much more interested in the future of the planet. More important than whether this government reaches the end of the month is how many compatriots survive the end of the month. But a government must be based on something, especially a government with barely 50 seats. Averting early elections is not yet a social project, and we are not in favour of it, but we do not want to avoid it either, simply because we do not want an early campaign, because we want this Parliament to do something. That is why you must come forward with a declaration of government, Prime Minister. You have a few days to do so. You have a real deadline now. You must ask for trust and you can only make one choice; that is my most important message to you. The N-VA is not a responsible party, the N-VA is a campaign machine. There is only one thing you can do, Mr Verherstraeten and Mr Dewael, and that is to break open the coalition agreement, tear it apart and seek new breakthroughs with this Parliament. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u43	Mr Van Quickenborne, by what majority do you intend to implement this coalition agreement? Are you serious about being able to do that with the N-VA in election mode? I don't think so. Prime Minister, we ecologists cross the language line every day. We ecologists also want to overcome differences of opinion in the near future, but we are not depaneurs of N-VA policy. We are not, like CD&V, the Open Vld and the MR past tense, the subcontractors of the N-VA. We want to be architects, we want to be contractors, but then you have to make a choice, and that is letting go of the N-VA and breaking the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u44	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have just witnessed an attempt to reverse responsibility. The environmentalists are responsible, but certainly not the current situation. That's you and the N-VA. We are responsible for our actions and also responsible for seeking political actions that respond to social and environmental emergencies. However, we are not naive. You describe routine business as a state that prevents a government from acting. This is not the case, but it must be done in a limited manner and under the control of Parliament. You're talking about prudent business. But what prudent cases? What is the perimeter you want to act on? Do you still have the will to implement this government agreement that we have denounced? What is the method you want to use? This is not clear. That is why we ask you to come back to this Parliament, after your consultations with each other, to express clearly the framework and the method. And on this basis, we will position ourselves. We will, of course, position ourselves according to our own emergencies, which we want to highlight. First of all, the climate emergency, a debate follows on the subject. Then the social emergencies, the living income of our fellow citizens. Only on this basis can we judge whether this government can have confidence, distrust or vigilance. And that's what environmentalists will continue to practice for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u45	Mr President, Prime Minister, you make me feel like you want butter, butter money and a smile from the cream tree. At the same time, you want the support of the N-VA and the constructive support of the opposition parties. But how can I tell you? That's impossible! We don't want the N-VA project. Either you extend your hand to the opposition – as you explained a few days ago – and you change course in a series of issues, to address the concerns of the citizens, or you choose the N-VA camp, which will then dominate your government from Parliament. After everything that has happened, you have no choice as a Democrat. Yet today, you have been everything but clear in the gallery as to the essentials, namely the content of the agenda of this government, Michel II. We are no more advanced and still do not know what your course is. Your thanks to the N-VA today – this is not the first time – begin to become heavy, arouse our scepticism and suggest that your choice is stopped. We're giving you a new appointment. You still have a few days ahead of you. You met the different parties. Proposals were made. We can be constructive without becoming pigeons. In any case, we do not want a programme which, as the N-VA wishes, would persevere in a very hard way towards our fellow citizens and in no way hear their daily reality. Prime Minister, this meeting will be set for you to come and explain your programme, but above all, your choice: either that of the N-VA or that of positive and constructive measures for all. So we'll meet you next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u46	Prime Minister, you have just raised a middle finger to Parliament in your speech. You intend to continue working with a minority government and not to ask Parliament for confidence. You obviously do not intend to go to the voter and ask for the voter's confidence. More than tens of minutes ago, we heard that, with a dictatorial attitude, people persist in anger by prohibiting citizens from organizing a march against the Marrakech Pact in Brussels on Sunday. Prime Minister, that goes very far. The fact that you silenced Parliament is mainly a matter for the Members of this House. You are putting democracy out of play, but the voter will judge it at the next elections, in May next year. However, the fact that you also want to ban citizens, who want to use their constitutional right to freedom of expression in a democracy, to argue against the Marrakesh Pact, which has occupied us all in this country and many outside for weeks and was even worth a government crisis, is far beyond my democratic sense. In this city, in the capital of our country and Europe, almost everyone can argue, from terrorist organisations such as the PKK to Sharia4Belgium, directly and indirectly responsible for the attacks in this country. They can all go on the streets and communicate their message to public opinion in the capital of Europe. In this capital of Europe, hundreds of illegal immigrants are allowed to live and live in complete clandestinity in the Maximilian Park. The government doesn't act. But oh woe to citizens who are opposed to the Marrakesh Pact to argue in Brussels, there is nothing more to be done. There will then be a ban on demonstrations throughout the city, which will undermine the right to freedom of expression. Prime Minister, let me tell you one thing. We are legalists and we will act within the lines of the rule of law. This means that we as a party will not call for a prohibited demonstration. But if there are nevertheless incidents and riots on Sunday, then that is your responsibility, because you are not only frightening Parliament and democracy, but also freedom of expression now. We, Flemish Interests, and hopefully all of you as democrats, cannot accept this and never accept it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u47	Mr President, Prime Minister, there are only contradictions in your remarks! You started your plea by telling us how glad you were that last week you had the confidence of this Parliament to go and bring your government's word to Marrakech. Because, without the majority will of this Parliament, you could not have done so. Prime Minister, today you are running away from your responsibilities by not asking for confidence in Parliament. Where is your logic, your coherence, except that it is interests that have nothing to do with the respect of our institutions that guide your choices? It's a first thing. Secondly, stop saying "It's my government or the early elections". You don't have a choice. And it is not Parliament's decision. We must remember the role of the King. In times of crisis, it is still the Head of State who has the right to estimate what action should be taken, especially if your government did not have Parliament's confidence. It is not because, you, you are plunged into the gadow that you must sink into the gadow all the institutions of this country! It is not because you no longer have the capacity to act that others no longer have it! That is the balance of powers in our Constitution. It is to allow the Head of State to assume the fullness of his prerogatives when a government is drifting. But you do not want to recognize that you are drifting and you prefer to drag the whole country into your drift. Let the Head of State assume his responsibilities! Stop having this contempt for the royal office! Thirdly, stop squandering with your thanks to the N-VA! You were again humiliated here this afternoon by the N-VA group leader who mocks your authority, both and more. Not only has the N-VA made an infamous blackmail for weeks, but you also feel obliged, through your speech in the gallery, to assimilate the whole House to a kind of gratitude to a party that mocks the Belgian institutions. So stop this bad circus, put the choice of trust, because it manifests the respect due to the citizens, and others will draw the conclusions, since you are no longer able to do so!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u48	Prime Minister, as I expected, you referred to a constructive motion of censure. A motion of censure, and again, we are not in that situation, presupposes that you first gained confidence. This room can't take away what she hasn't given you. Why do you have to ask for trust? Because you just have a government in ongoing business. How can you work with implementing decisions? Those implementing decisions... Mr Peeters, you are laughing, how do you intend to get your work deal there with implementing decisions? Can you answer that? Yes, you can, but you won't give me an answer. All your decisions on your work deal will be challenged by the trade unions, and they will be destroyed by the fact that you are in current business. That is why, Mr Peeters, you must ask for confidence. That's why! Prime Minister, you said that you want to work with the Chamber and that you do not want chaos. To be honest, I can follow that. My group also does not want chaos to occur. If you say that you want to work with the Chamber for a project, or that you want to look for a majority per project, then you also need confidence. I'd like to give you some time to work out and develop your project. That project is difficult, but it is not undoable. But you must have the confidence. I have heard Mr Clarinval speak of une coutume constitutionlle non contraignante. Of course, you don't think we can force you. A lot of people say that, too. Haha, outside my group, of course. We're always creative. We always come up with solutions. Mr Prime Minister, I cannot force you to do so. I can't ask a bailiff to force you to ask for trust here. We have already abolished this in the 19th century. What I can and will do here is this. Mrs Wouters and I will be submitting an order motion on the basis of Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure, which allows us to regulate the work of the Chamber. That is why, as long as your government does not ask for trust and has not received it, the Chamber will not deal with any legislative proposals or other initiatives from your government. It also means that the examination of draft laws and other initiatives of your government which are already pending in the Chamber will also be suspended until you have sought and obtained confidence. Ladies and gentlemen, I now call on you all to take responsibility, including those who spoke of a motion of censure. You can indeed force the government to do what it says effectively, namely to cooperate with Parliament. That will be hard work for the government to consult with all those groups. That's why it's a good thing that she's not involved in any other business in the meantime, so she's not distracted. It must therefore be able to concentrate on the assignment, Mr Peeters nods, he already agrees with the Prime Minister here. He said that in the next few days, and he did not set a deadline, he will focus on cooperation with Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u49	Prime Minister, we really need to have a twist to make the opposition almost responsible for the chaos. You're the one who went into a suicide government. For three or four years, you were happy, you thought you could demonstrate that this government was not going to be suicide bombers and today you take the front wall, everything explodes completely. The bet you made four years ago is completely missed. The record of political failure is serious, but please do not try to have it carried even a small part of the responsibility to the opposition. It's perfectly clear that you screwed yourself, you didn't even have a majority on the francophone side. A second aspect that is very clear is the presence of a kind of 151st player. He is not present today in this Parliament and has never been elected, but he puts some pressure and it is clear that it is this pressure that will push you into the arms of the N-VA. This player is the FEB, the VOKA. We haven't talked much about them, but this is the real player, who said from the start: "You can have fun in Parliament, as long as our measures, those taken by our government, are implemented". Prime Minister, you are asking us today whether we prefer the implementation of the measures advocated by the FEB – your true leader – or whether we prefer immobilism. I, of course, prefer a government in day-to-day affairs, that is very clear. Let us take the case of an unemployed person who, because of you and a measure that you are going to propose to us, will increase to 1,011 euros per month after six months. If you ask me if I would prefer to have this measure voted by a majority here or not voted because the government is in business, I will choose this last solution. As far as the issue of wages is concerned, if we have to choose between a government that bans wage increases and creates a blockage – during the three years you have led the country, 2% of GDP has moved from wage-earning to capital, which amounts to 9 billion euros of theft of wages – and a government in day-to-day affairs that will not be able to interfere with it, I prefer day-to-day business. Mr Bacquelaine, as far as career development is concerned, if you ask me whether the abolition of the right to leave before 60 years of age via a time credit must pass or not, I prefer that it does not pass! The question, Prime Minister, that you are asking us is whether we need a vote of confidence. I think the answer is yes. This is not just a question of the Constitution, it is a political issue. Do you still have confidence, yes or no? You didn't already have it from the population. It's very, very clear. No one had voted for the pension at 67! Question of legitimacy, zero to all! No one had that in his program and yet you applied it. On Friday, there will be a real vote of distrust, which will be set foot in the street with people. People will make you understand that mistrust is total. If you ask the PTB if it is better for a government in day-to-day business than for a government that will continue to impose right-wing measures, I choose day-to-day business.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u50	Prime Minister, it is too easy to minimize the crisis in the bisounour world by thinking that we are going to solve some small problems after the budget vote – which would not solve the current situation of our fellow citizens. But call to the union of the whole Parliament when it has been set on fire, Prime Minister, it is the hospital that does not care about charity! In the current situation, would it not be reasonable to anticipate the elections so that the citizen could vote democratically? In this way, a new majority would be created with a clear and precise mandate from the elector. Prime Minister, take your responsibilities!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u51	I've received two orders. A first motion was tabled by Mr. Laaouej and was co-signed by Mr. Gilkinet, Mr. Calvo, Ms. Kitir, Ms. Fonck and Mr. Maingain. The text of this motion is as follows: [["]] After hearing the Prime Minister explain the political situation in our country today, we are convinced that democratic and constitutional rules have not been respected! This unconstitutional situation in which the Michel government has been plunged and which the Prime Minister's explanations have not calmed at all plunged our country into real chaos! The Prime Minister has not presented a roadmap for the coming weeks. Prime Minister Charles Michel lost his coalition and majority on Saturday! 52 Members, barely 1/3 of this Parliament, support a government whose main objective is to remain in place! And we do not want this government crisis to contaminate Parliament and spread so far! Parliament is the heart of democracy. One of its most important functions is to control the government. Today, this control function is taking on its full meaning. Parliament must call this government to order! Parliament must recall the customs, rules and legal prescriptions, whether they come from the Constitution, from the laws or from the rules of the House to mention only those sources. On this point of order, the House wishes to demand respect not only for the parliamentary institution, but also for the democratic and constitutional rules of Belgium and proposes that the government come to present its new programme and seek Parliament's confidence by Tuesday 18 December at the latest. [["]] [[.]] "After hearing the Prime Minister explaining the political situation in which our country is today, we are convinced that democratic and constitutional rules were not respected! This unconstitutional situation, in which the Michel Government has been maneuvering and on which the Prime Minister has not been able to provide a satisfactory response at all in his explanatory statement, is bringing our country into a real chaos! The Prime Minister has not proposed a roadmap for the coming weeks. Prime Minister Charles Michel lost his coalition and his majority on Saturday! 52 MPs, barely 1/3 of this Parliament, support a government whose main aim is to stay on! Moreover, we do not want this crisis of government to infect Parliament and spread to here! Parliament is the cornerstone of democracy. One of Parliament's most important functions is to control the government. Today, that control function has its full meaning. Parliament must call this government to order! Parliament must remind us of the habits, rules and legal provisions, whether they arise from the Constitution, the laws or the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, to name but a few sources. With this sense of order, the Chamber wants to demand respect not only for the parliamentary institution, but also for the democratic and constitutional rules of Belgium, and proposes that the government present its new programme and, by Tuesday 18 December at the latest, ask for Parliament's confidence." And then, as you have heard, there is a second motion tabled by Mrs Wouters and Mr Vuye. I quote: "The Chamber, Having heard the Prime Minister's statements on the consequences of the change in the composition of the Government at Plenaire on 12 December 2018, the Prime Minister shall conduct its work as follows: - as long as the Michel I government has not sought and obtained the trust of the Chamber, the Chamber shall not deal with any legislative proposals or other initiatives from the Government; - the examination of draft laws or other initiatives of the Government which are already pending before the Court is suspended.' "The Chamber, Having heard on December 12, 2018, in plenary, the Prime Minister's statements on the consequences of the change in the composition of the government, rules on his work as follows: - the House will not consider bills or other government initiatives until the Michel II government requests and obtains the confidence of the House; - consideration of bills or other government initiatives already tabled in the House is suspended." First of all, we have to make a decision on admissibility. In order to make a proper assessment, I shall now suspend the sitting. I call immediately, hic et nunc, a meeting of the Conference of Presidents. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u52	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you of the two points of order tabled: a motion by Mr Laaouej in een andere moie van de heer Vuye. The first thing I had to do was decide on their admissibility. The admissibility of those motions must be assessed. I have listened to the opinion of the services, as have the opinions of the Conference of Presidents. My decision is next. In my view, the motion introduced by Mr. Laaouej is inadmissible. Mr Vuye's motion is admissible. I would remind you of the application of Rule 54 of our Rules of Procedure, which allows the plenary of the Chamber to disagree with that decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u54	Mr President, I will not go back to the exchanges we have had. I formally contest the reasons you have expressed regarding the inadmissibility of our motion. That being said, it is your prerogative as President of the Assembly. Nevertheless, I will ask for the application of my parliamentary prerogative, and therefore for the application of Rule 54. That is why I request, on the admissibility of our motion, a vote by sitting and lifted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Laaouej is right, because that is the position in Rule 54 of our Rules of Procedure. We must express our opinion on admissibility when we sit down and stand up. I would ask those who support my decision, namely that Mr Laaouej's motion is inadmissible, to stand up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u56	I propose that we proceed immediately to the debate and that we turn both motions into a debate. I would remind you of the Rules of Procedure. Each group has five minutes to decide on the motions. We shall therefore proceed immediately to the debate on the two motions. My proposal is to hold a debate on both motions. Thereafter, a vote will be taken on each motion separately. Who is asking to speak on these two motions? Logic dictates that I begin with the authors of the motion. The first speaker is therefore Mr Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, I would like to say to you that after hearing you, after having tabled this motion, the PS Group and other opposition democratic groups, we are telling you one very simple thing: the time for responsibilities has come. Today we will not have a vote on trust. You didn't do that. There will be no further consideration, no discussion of a motion of distrust. What we are asking you at this stage is to commit and to say it or to have others say it in this forum, coming as soon as possible, next week, with a real government program. You have changed your government both in terms of its composition, at least facialally, and at the level of the programme, given the statements made in this rostrum. We need to be consistent. If you tell us that it is a new team, that new directions can be considered, then come with a new government program. This is to be responsible in the proper sense of the term, in the etymological sense of the term, in the legal sense of the term but above all in the political sense of the term. Come with a new programme, a new declaration to discuss it with us, the majority but also and above all the opposition, and see if on this basis you can get a broad membership, a membership as it would allow you to see who supports you and who does not support you, to see if some carpets in the shadows continue to pull the strings. That is what we want to know. What we also want to know through this new programme, this new government agreement, is whether you have understood the message of the population that we represent and with regard to which we must provide clear answers on the field of expensive living, the reinvestment in public services, the bailout of the health care budget, but also on Belgium's international commitments on the environment and the climate. It is on this basis that we wish to hear from you. And there can be no new government program unless there is a vote of confidence. That is why you have to take your responsibilities, tell us where you intend to go, with whom, and above all, check whether you have enough confidence in this Parliament to do so. That is what we expect of you today, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u58	Mr President, we are faced with an exceptional situation: a constitutional habit whereby a new government must ask for confidence is difficult to enforce. In any case, Mrs Wouters and I are very proud that we have found the technique to do so and that the services have declared that technique admissible. This again points to the creativity of one of the smallest groups in the Chamber. We are now, of course, faced with our responsibilities. Mr Dewael says that we are going to shut down Parliament, but that is not the case at all. We are going to restore Parliament. We can also work with legislative proposals. I know that this is no longer common practice in a participation, that the orders come from outside. Ladies and gentlemen, you all now have the opportunity to truly restore Parliament. You will all have the opportunity to submit legislative proposals. Things have happened in Parliament at times like this: the legislation on family reunification has been tightened over such a period, so it is possible to work. It is not Mrs Wouters' and I's motion that puts Parliament out of play, it is Parliament's participation that is out of play. Our motion allows Parliament just to work. We propose that, in principle, the examination of proposals and resolutions, of anything that would come from the government, mainly draft laws, of course, be suspended. This does not, of course, prevent us, in a constructive approach to the government, from looking at dossier-by-file at what we do with a dossier. If the Prime Minister comes to the Conference of Presidents and asks for a specific dossier to be dealt with and there are reasons to deal with it, then we must clearly accept it. The purpose of the motion is not to cripple the government, but we want to try to force the government to ask for confidence. Mr Prime Minister, I repeat that you have every interest in asking for that confidence. After all, what can you do with your government in current cases? You can have laws voted here. If there is a majority in favour, the law is passed. That's exactly the same for a government in current cases. However, what can you do with your decisions? Your royal decrees will, one after one, be attacked before the Council of State, suspended and destroyed. So I am trying to help you, as I said earlier, and I really do. There are important social problems at the moment. I fully agree with you on this point. We must tackle these problems. Indeed, some citizens face problems in terms of purchasing power, and we must tackle these problems. Then make sure that your government can do so within a reasonable time. I want to give you that fair chance. I will not have a deadline for this, as in the opposition's other mood of order, for example, by requiring you to come to the Chamber on 18 December 2018. What will you do here on 18 December 2018? You will do the same on that day as you do today. That motion will allow the government to perform exactly the same number here next week as today. We won't be a millimeter away. Besides, even if the motion was declared politically admissible, it is legally inadmissible. It is impossible for a motion which regulates the proceedings of the Chamber to give orders to the government. The position of the services and of the President was therefore fully legally correct. You have only turned politics around, and that for a motion that will have no effect at all. So I will make the next appeal to all of you. We want to be constructive. We want to be creative, no matter what we've proven. The Prime Minister is faced with a situation which is also happening to him in part. Some had a Marrakesh experience after two years and suddenly realized that something was going on there, while they hadn't seen it for two years. They plunge the country into chaos, while people argue for their purchasing power. That is what Mrs Wouters and I want to correct with our motion. We hope to have broad support for this, otherwise we will see a soft opposition, a theatre opposition at work, which is not really serious. Then she raises a piece for the cameras, for the population, which in terms of constructivity doesn't teach anything. I'm hoping for your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u59	Mr President, I shall remain seated, because I think we are having a technical discussion here; I hope so. We had the political discussion earlier. The debate we are having here, like the previous speaker, is interesting to those who love it rather than relevant. The text of Mr Laaouej and his colleagues contains what I asked for earlier. So it is rather difficult for us not to support it. We have just asked the Prime Minister to come here as soon as possible to make a declaration of government. It would then logically be followed by a vote. The question is also entirely in line with the note submitted by the Court's Legal Service. Contrary to what Mr Vuye has just said, the order motion does not contain an obligation. She's technically inadmissible, was said. But one can ask the government for something, but it is not obliged to go into it, as has been pointed out earlier. This is true of the question in the motion, as was my plea earlier. A wish is expressed here, which is entirely in line with what I said earlier. We shall therefore support the order motion and see what happens next week. As far as Mr Vuye's motion and his group are concerned, it has rightly been declared technically admissible because it clearly deals with the regulation of work. That was also the only deliberation to declare them admissible. Your services were therefore right, Mr President, to declare them admissible. The motion is certainly creative. That is true, but Mr Vuye's creativity threatens to limit us in any case in our work by approving his motion. It is true that Parliament is not being silenced. Parliament can take all the initiatives it can take, but the motion also deals, for example, with the examination of draft laws or other initiatives by the government which are already before the Chamber. Some of them have already been dealt with to a large extent and have already been the subject of a parliamentary debate. I believe that, on a case-by-case basis, based on the content and not on some linear line, we should consider whether we consider it necessary to proceed with a draft law. I do not think we should impose a general rule on this. It is obvious, of course, that our group has a little more opportunity to accompany the work further than Mr Vuye. We have four members per committee. This means that we will have an impact on the further operation, on a case-by-case basis. We shall therefore use this number strength, as the Rules of Procedure allow us to do. We do not need the weapon that Mr Vuye wants to bring out. I shall conclude, Mr President. For the reasons I have explained, we will approve Mr Laaouej's motion and not Mr Vuye's.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u60	Mr President, the MR will vote against both motions but for different reasons. First of all, with regard to Mr Vuye's motion, we agree with your interpretation. This motion is admissible in procedural terms. It is regular, but on the merits, it simply proposes to paralyse Parliament until Mr Vuye's wishes are fulfilled. As we respect the separation of powers, we want this Parliament not to be paralysed. We will therefore not support Mr Vuye's proposal, which is really useless. With regard to the second motion, that of Mr.Laaouej et al., we consider, as you did, Mr. Chairman, that this motion is inadmissible for two reasons. First of all, I just want to point out that, first of all, when we have an agreement, we are used to respecting it. Yesterday, in the Conference of Presidents, we had an agreement not to table such motions in order to allow the government to carry out the consultation it had called for. The day after the Conference, Mr. Laaouej et al. did not respect their words. On the form already, it is very regrettable. There is a second argument of form that I regret. Normally, a point of order relates to the order of business. Here we can see very clearly that we go far beyond the scope of an order of business, since we are dealing with a whole series of substantive issues. It's outside the scope of a point of order. A parliamentary procedure is therefore being conducted for political purposes. On the form, this motion is completely inadmissible. You judged him that way, Mr. President. We can see very well here that there is a small political game that is deviating a procedure. It's more important, Mr. President. We are also opposed to the substance. I simply invite you to read the following sentence and to be explained to me: "By this point of order, the House wishes to demand...". You'll have to explain to me what "want to demand respect" means. First, there are quite incomprehensible elements, but in addition, we are asking the government for something that we know is completely unconstitutional, since it is not Parliament that is asking the government for confidence, it is obviously the government that, at some point, if it wishes to do so, is asking for confidence. We are here in a pattern which, both in form and in substance, is completely unacceptable. It is therefore very clear that we will vote against these two motions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u61	I propose that we not hold a new debate. We'll just listen to the different bands.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since we are in a special political situation, we will have to live with the fact that special political initiatives are being taken. Today we see an application of this. Yesterday, the Conference of Presidents reached an agreement to hold an exchange of views today. I do not think it would be obvious for a Prime Minister who conducts confidential conversations to communicate transparently and openly in the Chamber at the same time. Still, he did. In addition, we agreed at the Conference of Presidents that the various interplays of the opposition will be dealt with, I have already lost the count scheduled for next Tuesday, after which everyone will be free to table motions, such as motions of censure. We have come to these agreements. I have always had the ambition to respect the agreement reached. However, I note now that those who have committed themselves to the Conference of Presidents are returning unilaterally to their agreement. It's been noted. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u63	When did you conclude an agreement with me?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u64	Mr Vuye, I was not addressing you but the members of the political groups that are part of the Conference of Presidents. And that, by the way, is still the overwhelming majority. Mr President, I should like to say that, following this exchange of views, the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber have been used in a manifest error. As far as the timing is concerned, I do not think that is appropriate. The Prime Minister takes confidential initiatives with all democratic groups. In a confidential way, he tries to find solutions. The opposition parties have also expressed their respect for this. Two cases one. Either that is good and one participates fully in order that this may lead to solutions, or one tries to sabotage this in the facts. And that is what we are doing, I think, with these initiatives. The Court may take any initiatives it wishes to take in this respect. Everyone should respect that, including those who are placed in the minority in this Chamber. But there's a government prerogatives. The Government shall decide whether to make a declaration of government or not. It is the government that decides whether to ask for trust or not. That is her constitutional prerogatives. You can agree to that or not. If you do not agree, you will have many parliamentary options to respond to it. Finally, as regards the substantive provisions of Mr Vuye's motion, the following. Mr Vuye, I do not think this motion is respectful of Parliament. You actually want to make Parliament de facto unemployed. Subject to legislative proposals. Colleagues, even a government with full authority, even a government in cautious matters, even a government in future matters, is always entitled to submit drafts. In the years I have been here, I have always known that many of the government's legislative initiatives were adopted almost by consensus here. In other words, we almost all agreed on many things because they were good for the people. It is your full right to agree or disagree with a government initiative, to approve or reject it. But I think it is far too much to de facto paralyse Parliament, as far as government initiatives are concerned. We shall therefore vote against the two motions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u65	Mr President, I shall be brief. Colleagues Verherstraeten and Clarinval have already put forward a number of arguments. Firstly, Parliament must know what it wants. Yesterday there was a consensus in the Conference of Presidents for a good understanding, a number of political groups are not represented there and there is a great consensus to decide on two matters. Firstly, we have decided that the urgent debate that we held in the presence of the Prime Minister would take place in a question time format, without any amendments. Secondly, we have decided that the discussions on the same subject will be discussed in plenary on Tuesday. In doing so, any interpreter is free to attach to it the motion he or she chooses. I wonder what is the point of making such agreements, because when people say that next Tuesday the government will be asked to do so, and that is all that is being done about it coming up with a declaration of government, it does not seem pragmatic to me to be right. This is then double use with the interplays that can still be developed. If I were part of the opposition, I'd do it differently. I would certainly stick to my interplays, because I can link a motion to that. After all, what is being done here is no more or no less than "demande le governement..." or "propose que le governement..." Actually, that's a weakness offer. I am not saying what the government should do, but if one were to say from the government that next Tuesday one would come to the Chamber to answer all the interviews on the same subject, one could perfectly say for that reason that one will not do the same twice. As regards the first motion, which I simply say is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. This is indeed a misuse of the Rules of Procedure. Mr President, when we talk about the rules of procedure, we take care of our own work and do not take advantage of it to ask the government to do anything. That is why you have rightly said that the motion is inadmissible to you. If the motion is admissible to a majority of Members of Parliament, then those who were on the scene last week with the Constitution should consider whether the regulation of the Chamber's work is an opportunity to ask the government to do something. I do not think that makes any sense. A second matter is Mr Vuye's motion. I have often said that the Chamber is responsible for its own work. The House is the master of the manner in which it regulates its work. Mr Vuye, why do we make this dependent on anything? After all, you say "as long as the government doesn't..." So we make the regulation of our own activities dependent on what the government must do first. In other words, we are conditioning the regulation of our own work. I think that's a weakness offer. Parliament must stand by and do what it thinks it should do. If, for example, the draft on the military quota is discussed here tomorrow, we should not, according to your interpretation, discuss it because it is a draft from the government. Could it be any crazier? So I would just say that next week the government should do what it thinks it should do. Making ourselves technically unemployed and saying in advance that we are not going to discuss any government draft as long as the government has not done something, that is a weakness of the Chamber. That is why my group will vote against both motions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u66	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the round we are holding today is all the more proof of the need for clarity as soon as possible. I hear Mr Clarinval with great passion say why he believes that this motion should not be declared admissible. Mr Clarinval, a majority was in favour of doing so. Mr Verherstraeten, you say that you do not think this is appropriate and that the time is not right. Your government put together a minority government very quickly last weekend, you referred to your ministers very quickly, you divided the posts very quickly. We in Parliament are simply asking you: what are you going to do? You say that if we do not give the Prime Minister a chance to discuss it, it will be of little respect. We give every opportunity for consultation, but do you think it is respectful that the Prime Minister should come to thank the largest party that caused the chaos? Do you think it is correct that Mr Dewael should come here and tell the Prime Minister that he should fully implement the coalition agreement? Is that respectful? A word is a word. I'm very sensitive to that. A word is a word. It is really ridiculous for this minority to have to use this argument to prevent our Prime Minister from coming to Parliament to explain how he wants to work and then asking for confidence. We made an agreement yesterday that there would be a debate with the Prime Minister today. We have had that debate. We did not get the answer we wanted, but at the same time we asked for a vote of confidence yesterday. The minister was present. There's a legal note. The Minister did not want to speak on this yesterday. We have agreed on the interplays. We have been clear from day one: the Prime Minister must come to the Chamber and ask for a vote of confidence. I do not agree that you use the argument as if we were playing games from the opposition and did not respect the Constitution. In your place, I wouldn't even dare say that. If you want to respect democracy, the Prime Minister will come up with a statement and then he will ask for a vote of confidence. Be clear what you want to do. If this Parliament gives you a majority, you can continue to work. Prime Minister, you alone can solve this chaos. If you do not, you will find that Parliament is not a shopping centre where you can go shopping to the right to take some antisocial measures and then go shopping to the left for some social measures. That is not democracy, Prime Minister! If you really want to respect Parliament, you are clear about what you want to do. Give us a clear framework and we will look at whether we can give you the confidence or not on the basis of your government statement. No more and no less.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u67	Mr President, I am very much aware of Mr Kitir's intervention, because she looks at the essence. Mr Verherstraeten, Mr Dewael, that essential point is not the reading of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, but the question of whether anything can happen in this country in the coming months. If so, what will happen? That is why our group is firmly committed to this debate, because we are not very enthusiastic about motions of confidence or mistrust, we have repeatedly stressed that this is of secondary importance to us. Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to stress that we are not here to gloat. There are political groups in Parliament whose political project is to do away with your duties, to strip out our nation and the federal state. That's not our project. We are federalists, we want this country to be led by a strong government and prime minister. Mr Dewael, that is precisely why the Prime Minister must enter into talks with Parliament at some point. Mr Verherstraeten, we are not asking for anything weird, we are not asking the Prime Minister to make a government statement here and now. That is not what we are asking, because that would be irresponsible and destructive. We are not asking the Prime Minister to tell us now how the budget will be amended. We would ask the Prime Minister to come here next week with a declaration of government and look Parliament in the eye. Mr Prime Minister, if you have managed to divide a lot of ministerial posts in a few hours' time, we will ask a very reasonable question if we ask you to put things in order this week and come to Parliament next week with a substantive project, with a choice? The only thing that really pissed me off are the interventions of Open Vld and CD&V. You say the opposition is irresponsible. They'll have to file a motion of censure. Ladies and gentlemen, what government should we vote against? What project should we table a motion of censure against? What should we express our distrust about? Since we do not feel that the outstretched hand is genuine, we must hunt down the government and the three parties to come to Parliament to confess colour. I think this is also in your interest, Prime Minister. You can't get out of the way of this issue. You need to confront me. You have to make that choice. You must choose, not everything must be recorded in the next few days, but you must choose. Either you say: I will continue to carry out the N-VA project. Then you will have to lock yourself up with Mr De Roover in the next week. I wish you every success and pleasure in your work. Either you can opt for another formula and break the coalition agreement. The CD&V colleagues say that we are dropping the degressivity of benefits. Mr Dewael is trying to seduce the hemisphere with a pro-European project, with the question of how we are going to take the lead in economic deepening. That's a completely different method. However, you must choose. You cannot ask us to abandon you for the N-VA project and, for the rest, simply take note of the boxing match between that divorced marriage, between that old couple. We are not going to support Mr Vuye's proposal, we do not want to close this Parliament, we do not want to stop. We want to work. We invite you to come here next week. That is an opportunity, albeit a difficult one. I understand that it is not obvious for you to ask for trust. However, it is even less obvious not to do so, because if you do not ask for confidence, then our 11 million Belgians do not know what awaits them, and, above all, there will be chaos every week. It is not obvious, but you must look Parliament in the eye, as we can expect from a Prime Minister. That is a very reasonable question from an opposition, who has been more responsible than a former majority party for more than a month now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u68	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few days and again today, I have heard a lot of comments on the Constitution, on the text, on practice, on customs, on all the provisions in the constitutional text. I would like to make two points on this subject. First of all, many texts were cited: 46, 96, etc. But a text was not quoted. This may be the most important thing. That is the text that should be included in this House, in gold letters, on the front page of this House. This is article 101 that you all know by heart, of course. This text says this – I remind those with short memories: "Ministers are accountable to the House of Representatives." It's a fundamental article. It is an article that expresses the very foundations of our parliamentary system. Ministers – it is also the Constitution that says so – have the right to enter each chamber. We have the right to ask them to explain themselves. And if they do not explain themselves or if their explanations are not convincing, we are entitled to draw all the consequences. They have a right of entry. We also have the right to show the exit. Those who tell us that the Michel I government obtained the confidence of the House four years ago, and that, on balance, it is good for the entire term of the legislature, including for a government that is otherwise composed, pretend to forget this fundamental rule of responsible parliamentarism before the House of Representatives. The consequence is simple: as soon as a new government is constituted, it must obviously come to the House to check, numbers in hand, whether it has sufficient support, necessary from the members of the Assembly. That is what the note of the Legal Service of our House says, which some have described as partisan. I'm telling you, I've read it. I have reread it with the eyes of the lawyer I am and, in that capacity, I allow myself to say that this note is excellent, that it has been written in a professional way with all the elements that a good lawyer must find, even if the conclusion does not please everyone. I would add, if necessary, that the government does not only need support and trust on the first day of its existence; it needs it throughout its life. Trust is not just a moment: it is a lasting one and is constantly being verified. That's the ABC of democracy. My last point will be very simple. Recently, there has been much discussion as to whether it is a reformed government or a new government. It's really a problem that has no interest. The reality is simplistic: the Michel I government was sitting on a four-foot chair – it was a quadripartite; today it is sitting on a stool, a tripod – it is a tripartite. Well, you have to be blind not to see that a stool is not a chair and that a chair is not a stool! Having said that, and given what I have just explained kindly and simply, it is clear that we support the motion of order Laaouej et al. Why? Simply because it allows for a little order and coherence in speeches and acts, and also allows for a little modesty to apply the constitutional provisions which only require to be applied and which must not be twisted or distorted according to events or states of soul. This motion is also useful because it shows some respect for the basic principles of democracy and the parliamentary system.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u69	Mr President, I make three observations. Firstly, how scared are the parties of the Marrakech coalition not of Parliament and of the electorate that they will continue to stage this spectacle, with the only intention being to buy time to enable this grim coalition to survive. Secondly, the opposition also has butter on its head. The opposition must also admit its colour, and some of the opposition does not dare to do so today in the hope of being able to draw a part of the Michel II government's sheet. In this way, the opposition is emerging into a kind of theatre opposition that shows little impact and thus undermines Parliament's power of action. Thirdly, this spectacle is what awaits us if we allow the minority cabinet to continue until the elections in May. Our Parliament will be reduced to an indecisive talk barracks which will eventually be despised by everyone, not least by the electorate, quite rightly. If we continue to do so for another five months, if we continue to do so until the May elections, none of us should be surprised that the last citizen in our country will demand the abolition of parliamentary democracy. No one will accept that we are acting like kindergarten children, that we let the circus continue, that we do not accept our responsibility, that the government does not accept its responsibility, that Parliament does not accept its responsibility. Our group will vote for both motions with enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u70	Mr President, in short, it is the stubbornness of the government that forces Parliament to take up its responsibilities again. Prime Minister, last week, you considered that you had to appeal to Parliament in order to be able to assume certain obligations that are incumbent upon the government under the Constitution. You have relied on a vote of confidence from Parliament. Today, I do not know what dangerous precedent you want to set by implying that a minority government could thus drive the country, indefinitely in time, without ever subjecting itself to the democratic requirement to know whether it has a majority in Parliament. This is a dangerous precedent you want to create. If you want to think about it, Prime Minister, the motion that has been tabled by the parties that have a sense of responsibility gives you a chance to come back, perhaps tomorrow, with the ability to act. But it's up to you to make the choice. Either you continue to be subject to the Yoyo regime announced to you by the N-VA - because that's what this is about when you hear Mr. Peter De Roover. Either you are obliged to seek broader parliamentary support, which you do not have today. Of course, a number of the policies that you have undertaken so far will have to be abandoned. Yes, we're going to have to adapt your political commitments. But today you cannot ask Parliament, where you are no longer a majority, to give you the satisfaction of being able to pursue a policy for which you no longer have a majority. Because that is the respect of the parliamentary institution. You do not have a majority to pursue the commitments made under your previous government, and you pretend to believe that you can achieve these goals without the demands of Parliament. Today, you have no choice but to submit or resign.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot get rid of the impression that the rules are being played with. Over the past two weeks, I have become aware that everything is relative and that what some call creativity is actually messing with the rules. No one in the people should try that at work with the employment regulations. Here it is believed that one can ask for permission, but also not ask for it, and that one can come before the Chamber or not. The impression is getting stronger that everything is relative. It is really serious to see how much one can use the rules with the sauce one wants, including in what should be the temple of democracy. The record of the past two or three weeks is incredible. Everything is multi-interpretable. It's really a signal. Yesterday, agreements were reached between group leaders. We were not present, Mr. Chairman, so we did not commit to it, but we will support the motion that was tabled by our colleague Mr.Laaouej. We will do so for the good and simple reason that the following is obvious to us: this Michel II government is not the Michel I government. I think everyone sees it. It's popular wisdom. Go ask someone on the street. Everyone will tell you that it is obvious that this government is another government. We are trying to manipulate the rules to avoid this clear political statement. That is why we support this request for the government to present its statement next Tuesday and for a vote of confidence. On the other hand, there is obviously a political component in this case. Yes, Prime Minister, you hope to be able to pursue a right-wing policy, and many of the signals that have been given today indicate continuity. We're going to go on with this "arbeidsdeal" that affects the full-whipped workers. We're going to go on with this budget that's not going to solve anything. We will continue with this policy of wage moderation. You have given many signals of this right-wing policy. You cannot wait for left-wing parties to support continuity of government to persist in implementing this right-wing policy. It is therefore likely, Prime Minister, that you do not have the confidence of Parliament. If that's what you're talking about, it's clear. As I said earlier in my more general political intervention, I am far more concerned with day-to-day affairs than with right-wing affairs. It is clear that it will help me if you cannot vote the month at 1011 euros for the unemployed. It makes me feel better because this degression is antisocial. The political position is very clear, Prime Minister. You don't have a mandate to continue your right-wing policy. You don't have it. That is why we will support this motion of the heart so that, next Tuesday, we not only have the debate on the questions but, above all, a general policy statement. I doubt, Prime Minister, that you are changing your mind this weekend. But let us admit that you are changing your mind, that you are finally coming with a social policy and that we are voting, we will see whether or not you still have the confidence of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u72	Mr President, I would like to go back to various points. I listened carefully to each other's arguments and interventions, and I would like to support two or three messages so as not to give the feeling, by repeating things that go against what I said in the gallery, that we did not hear the message. First, as I said and I repeat, it is certain that, since a government no longer has a majority – this is the case in Parliament, we can see in the debates that new lines are being set up – something is happening that must lead the government to exercise caution. I do indeed confirm this need for caution. Mr Vuye has also made arguments which, in my view, are correct to a large extent. This implies, for example, that in terms of royal decrees, the capacity is not the same as in the case of a stable majority situation. Hence this extremely important element to keep in mind, so as not to give the impression, as I have heard, that we would be in a sort of blindness, that the chair would be transformed into a stool. In any event, we will never see a chair or stool asking for confidence in Parliament. Having said that, I come to a supplementary point. Article 46 of the Constitution is the answer, Mr Delperée, to article 101 of the Constitution. Why? Because article 46 of the Constitution gives the ability, at any time, to effectively verify whether a team that constitutes a government has or does not have confidence. It's the motion of distrust. We have been witnessing a curious debate for a few hours. Even those who say that they do not want early elections or a situation that prevents us from making decisions for the country - for example, the achievement of the additional tax cuts under the tax shift, namely 40 euros a month, Mr Hedbouw - encourage, ask, wish, propose that the government take a decision in that direction; you know precisely that there is no majority today. I would therefore like to highlight all these absolutely curious and surprising steps, which each time suggest that you do not have a weapon that exists, which is the motion of mistrust. You may at any time introduce a motion of distrust. We must shoulder our responsibilities, and I am prepared to do so, and I will do so by continuing with dialogues and contacts, to see if it is indeed possible to show the necessary and useful courage on both sides in order to be able to meet the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u73	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u74	Colleagues, we are not reopening the discussion. Mr Calvo, the Rules of Procedure do not provide for a debate on matters of order. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the vote. The Rules of Procedure prescribe a vote on sitting and standing, but under Rule 58, 5, penultimate paragraph, it is for me to make each vote a vote of name in the interests of clarity. I propose that we use electronic voting. We first vote on Mr Laaouej et al.'s point of order. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 79 Yes No. [[41]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 121 Total Accordingly, the point of order was adopted. Consequently, the order motion is accepted. We now vote on Mr. Vuye's point of order. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 5 Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 29 Abstensions Total 119 Total Mr. Benoît Lutgen voted against. Accordingly, the point of order is dismissed. Consequently, the order motion is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall suspend the sitting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u75	Mr Maingain, are you asking for the floor on the order of business?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip260x.u76	Yes, Mr. President. I believe that we must infer from the motion just tabled that, since the government is not in full exercise and has no confidence, hold a debate or maintain the opportunity to question the government until it makes its statement seems to me to reverse the order of priorities. I believe that we have no choice but to suspend our work until the government, within the time allotted to it, makes the declaration it is responsible for. This is the institutional logic because the last word belongs to him. The President: Mr Maingain, I regret to contradict you. After the suspension, we shall do what has been agreed and conduct the climate debate, which, moreover, has been given the urgency, at the request of various groups. The hearing is adjourned. We'll re-table at ten to eight. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 12 December 2018 at 7.50 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, December 12, 2018 at 7.50 p.m.
