ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Colleagues, Minister of State Robert Urbain, an honorary member of the House, died on Friday, November 9, 2018. Born in Hornu on November 24, 1930, Robert Urbain, after his studies in science and mathematics, began in 1951 his professional career in teaching, in Charleroi, pursuing her in Wasmes and finally in Frameries. In 1958 he began an administrative career in the province of Hainaut, where he held the position of provincial clerk. It was in November 1971 that he entered our House as a member of the PSB for the district of Mons. He will sit in the House without interruption until 12 April 1995. Robert Urbain forged his political talents on the benches of the municipal council of Hyon and, after the merger of the communes, of Boussu of which he became mayor. He will run his commune for almost 30 years, from 1977 to 2006. Robert Urbain's ministerial career began in 1973 when he succeeded Abel Dubois as Secretary of State for Housing and Spatial Planning in the Tripartite Government of Edmond Leburton. He then became Secretary of State for the Walloon Economy in the Tindemans II and Van den Boeynants II Governments and, in April 1979, Minister of Posts, Telegraphy and Telephony in the Martens I Government. His work as a minister also focused on international relations and it was therefore no surprise that he was subsequently awarded the Foreign Trade Ministerial Office five times, in the Martens II, III, IV, Eyskens and Martens VIII governments. He would eventually embody that difficult function, which requires rigour and discipline, but also great availability. In this capacity, he was entrusted with the delicate dossier of the regionalization of our external trade. Finally, in the first Dehaene government, in March 1992, he was again assigned the portfolio of external trade but also of European affairs. He had to prepare for the opening of the single European market on 1 January 1993 and to organise the Belgian Presidency of the European Community. Between his national ministerial mandates, Robert Urbain was also for four years a member of the Executive of the French Community in two governments led by Philippe Moureaux. Robert Urbain was a tireless worker, but also a good communicator whose speeches, as minister and MP, could often be supported by majority and opposition. In the context of his numerous responsibilities at international level, his language skills were of great use to him. He was a real "Borain" but he also spoke fluent Dutch, English and Spanish. Because of his background as a teacher, he knew how important it was to express himself clearly and intelligibly. He will leave us with the memory of a warm, friendly, deeply conciliatory man who knew when the time came to make the decisions that were necessary. This great democrat has marked political life in Belgium for almost thirty years. He was particularly touched when King Albert II – whom he had frequented on several occasions on trade missions abroad – appointed him Minister of State in 1998, recognizing the value of man and the courage of politics. I have conveyed to his family the most sincere condolences of this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the disappearance of Robert Urbain, our country is losing a man of great conviction and sincere commitment. Robert Urban, a teacher of training, dedicated his life to the service of others. First in his commune of Boussu, to which he was so attached and where he was a mayor for thirty years without interruption. It was a function that he greatly appreciated because it allowed him to have this immediate, warm, direct contact with his fellow citizens. Robert Urbain was attached to his Borinage region. He very often evoked the human warmth that dominates exchanges and encounters in this part of the country. Robert Urbain was elected MP in 1971 and joined the Edmond Leburton team two years later. After that, he became Minister several times. Thanks to his extensive language skills, he was almost naturally given responsibility for foreign trade. Many missions abroad also allowed him to establish a privileged contact with Prince Albert during official travel. It was with great emotion, honour and pride that he received his title as Minister of State of King Albert II after his accession to the throne. We are very many in this Parliament, especially on certain benches, who have been marked by personality, humour, human warmth, by the intelligence of our former and esteemed colleague. On behalf of the federal government, I want to offer our most sincere and affectionate condolences to his family and loved ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to observe a moment's silence in memory of our former colleague and Minister of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u5	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Colleagues, It was with sadness that we learned of the death, on October 26, 2018, at the age of 79, of Mr.Jacques Collart, honorary member of the House. After studying social sciences at the Université Libre de Bruxelles, Jacques Collart held the position of Chief of Works in a training centre for PMS staff and documentalist at the Royal Library. Collart began his political career in 1970 as a communal socialist councillor in Châtelet. From the beginning, he became a merchant until 1976, then a Beaux-Arts, Culture and Youth. Jacques Collart was a man deeply anchored in his commune of Châtelet and in his native Hainaut. It was there that this convinced municipalist – he sat for nearly 30 years on the communal council – drew inspiration and strength to carry out his work as a parliamentarian. As chairman of the Federation de Charleroi des Ensignants Socialists, he also worked under the Martens I government as attaché to the cabinet of the Minister of National Education, Jacques Hoyaux. On 27 November 1981 he took the oath as MP and remained a member of our assembly until 21 May 1995. After his election as a representative of the people, he dealt with issues close to his heart: economic policy and social problems. The initiatives he took as a Member of Parliament bear witness to his experience in dealing with the citizens and their problems on a daily basis. This vice-president of the Intercommunal Social Works was also a man of the field, always very attentive to what touched the base of society. He did not see his task as mere management, but also had at heart to build, to find solutions in an emergency, to meet the expectations of his fellow citizens whose needs he knew so well. He was appreciated in our assembly for his sense of humour, his ability to listen, but also for his commitment at all times. It is with a deep conviction that this man of a friendly and generous character defended the poorest. In 1996, he was appointed as an economic attaché for the Walloon Region, at the Belgian Embassy in Paris. Finally, from 2000 to 2004, he served as adviser to the General Delegation of Wallonia-Brussels in Paris. On behalf of the House, I extend my sincere condolences to the family of our former colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government shares the tribute of the Chamber to Mr Jacques Collart. He came from Châtelet and was in the first place a man of the terrain. A man of land very much appreciated for his permanent, total availability, very much appreciated by the quality of his listening, he had considered that access to the accommodation had to be a battle horse. He was also very interested in economic and, above all, social issues and, during his term in the House and in the various functions he held, continued to relay the concerns of the most vulnerable, relaying their practical difficulties on a daily basis. The loss of a loved one is obviously a painful ordeal. The government also joins the Speaker in expressing our deepest condolences to his family and loved ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to observe a moment's silence in memory of our colleague?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u8	With distress we have learned that our former colleague Alfred Evers died on 19 November 2018. We learned with regret the death, on November 19, 2018, of our former colleague Alfred Evers. Alfred Evers entered the Chamber of Representatives in 1974. He then served as a co-opted senator. From 1979 to 1985 he was a member of the public again and then returned to the Senate, until 1995. It was in 1974 that he entered the House. He then sat as a co-opted senator before returning to our assembly from 1979 to 1985 and again to the Senate until 1995. He was mayor of Eupen for 24 years, and was also President of the Parliament of the German-speaking Community. He was also mayor of Eupen for 24 years and president of the Parliament of the German-speaking Community. On behalf of the Chamber, I expressed my sincere condolences to his wife. On behalf of the House, I presented my deepest condolences to his wife.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u9	Prime Minister, last week, in connection with the Marrakech immigration pact, the N-VA asked you very clearly to convince them. The answer followed yesterday: hearings. After two years of diplomatic negotiations there will be hearings, only ten days before this pact has to be signed. Those hearings will therefore be held at the end of the game, just before the final meeting. Surrealistic is that. However, you may have changed your position by now, your attitude has changed radically and you would like to consult a number of specialists, including those who oppose the Marrakesh Immigration Pact. However, I fear that in practice it is mainly up to you to do that that is to buy time. The question then is what you want to buy time for. Prime Minister, are you waiting for the hearings to finalise your position? Do you allow the government's position to depend on the resolutions that will be voted on in this House next week? Do you endorse the pact with an interpretative statement or do you agree with it? Are you going to extend it to the conference that might be held shortly after in New York? If you endorse it, will this happen with or without a majority in this House? I understand that this government is seeking allies in the Netherlands, Germany and Great Britain to possibly amend the pact. However, I ask you whether we should not seek out our allies in Austria, Hungary, Poland, the United States, Australia and since yesterday Italy as well. After all, they will firmly reject the Pact. "Salve Salvini," live Salvini, live Orbán, Kurz, Trump and others who have the courage to express what the people think and say about immigration. Instead of taking the side of the Merkels, the Ruttes and the Macrons of this world, take the side of these new European political leaders who have the courage to say what the man in the street thinks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u10	Your question, Mr Dewinter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u11	Prime Minister, I am sure that today you will finally want to give us clear wine in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, what a cacophony in your government! They're gonna hear experts. But Mr De Roover and Mrs Jadin immediately said that they are not going to listen, because their position has already been defined. That hearing therefore serves to buy time, the opinion of those experts does not matter, that is simply abuse of academics. Well, I hope, frankly, that none of my colleagues will lend themselves to that, because they really do not serve to prolong the suffering of your government. The real problem is that your government hasn't followed that file since the beginning. The real problem is that Europe has not weighed within the UN and has not followed that dossier from the outset. All of that could have happened, but it didn't happen. Where was Europe? Where were you as mister Europe? Where was the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration? Apparently, your government still hasn't understood. Whatever Belgium does, there will be a migration pact, whether it falls or does not fall, whether Parliament hears experts or not, whether Parliament votes in favour or against. None of this matters, that migration pact is established within the United Nations and not within Belgium. Here only fits a collective mea culpa: sorry voters, we failed; sorry voters, the power of change hasn't changed and sorry voters, the Swedish dream coalition has become a nightmare arguing over a non-binding text. After four years of Michel-Francken we have here an Australian model on Twitter and a Belgian model in practice. Belgium is not the country of the chosen migration. Belgium is the country of subjugated migration. That is the reality. There's your Secretary of State's whim: I won't let anyone in, but they're over there. Well, he's just been authorized to make sure they're not there. And he's had that authority for four years. My question is very simple. Who was the main political responsibility within your government to follow up on that migration pact? That was the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, I presume?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u13	Prime Minister, the uncertainty about the position of our country remains. Yesterday, the majority bought some time with the planned hearings, but the doubt that your government is sowing only gives more food to the far right. Yesterday, in this House, we saw a blundering Filip Dewinter who felt the government's hesitation perfectly and abused. Today has actually gotten worse. Pick a camp! What's your choice? Do you really opt for extreme right, populism in Europe and their objective allies that are now the N-VA and the Flemish Interest? Or do you choose universal human rights and the vast majority of the UN Member States who are aware of the need for an international agreement on migration? This is not an open border text. Whatever they say. This text states that the causes of migration must be addressed, that smugglers must be tackled, that borders can be monitored as they should be, that there is a distinction between regular and irregular migration, and that there can certainly be a return. But this text also states that locking people up is the last resort. In fact, your government agrees with that. This text does not say that we should facilitate family reunification, but that we should make the application procedures accessible to everyone. It also says that we want basic assistance for migrants. In short, what does it say that provokes so much indignation at the N-VA? Can we no longer regard migrants as human beings? Can't we treat them like this? Is that the consensus? Does that threaten to become the consensus you're pursuing with your government? This is not a binding text, but a very strong political signal. It is a political signal against what is happening in Mexico, on the border with the United States, against what is happening in Saudi Arabia and in the camps in Libya. Stop the fake news, colleagues. Get behind this! Mr Prime Minister, apparently the majority needs hearings to support you. Apparently, you still need to study this text. But didn't you do that before you said in your speech in New York that you wanted to approve this text? I suppose when you spoke there, you had studied this text? Stop the theater colleagues from the N-VA. There is no rational reason why this text should not be adopted. Except maybe electoral gain and scaring people. But if you, as politicians, choose to scare people for no reason, that is a completely irresponsible attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u14	Prime Minister, we are trying to understand. Two months ago, in front of the United Nations, you said that Belgium would sign this UN Pact on Migration. You even added that this text was a major step forward. Yesterday, your party had experts summoned to vote on the text. I dare assume that, when you made this statement at the United Nations, you had this text analysed by experts! They could already tell you at that time what it contained and its legal value. You say that this text is a major step forward and I will not contradict you on this point. Indeed, the Pact establishes a non-binding framework for international legal cooperation, bearing in mind, as the Pact states, that no State can manage the issue of migration alone. I guess you're not opposed to that vision. This pact makes migration "safe, orderly and regular". I guess you're not opposed to that vision. It aims to combat smugglers and ensure respect for human rights. I assume, Prime Minister, that you are not opposed to this vision, even if the Secretary of State of your government limits the registration of asylum seekers, which is already in contradiction with respect for human rights. Finally, the Pact aims to avoid any form of exploitation and ill-treatment of migrants, in particular by preventing migrant workers from being used as an illegal and corvetable labour force. I hope, Prime Minister, that you are not opposed to this vision. There's no need for experts either. Many experts have already stressed that this pact is not binding and that it respects the sovereignty of the migration policy of the signatory States. Finally, what is the only opposition to the basis of this text? It is the opposition of an extreme international right who wants to carry out a campaign of hatred and fear on the issue of migration. Prime Minister, the meeting in Marrakech will take place in about ten days. When will the government take a stand? Will he do it the day before the summit? Are you going, yes or no, to adopt an interpretative declaration that might empty the text of its substance? Mr President, I conclude with a twofold question. Are there any elements in the pact that your experts did not see when you expressed Belgium's support and, if so, which ones? Or is it simply a matter for you to step back in front of the international campaign of the far right? In other words, are you "facho-sensitive", like the N-VA?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last week we all had the opportunity to debate the important issue of migration and the policy we intend to pursue in the future. I gave some clear answers last week. I confirm what I said about that last week. Where are we now? I repeat that a process of international negotiations started in 2016 with a follow-up at Belgian level. We have followed a procedure both at federal and inter-federal level. On the basis of that procedure, I made a statement to the United Nations. That way everyone knows my opinion on the issue. My responsibility in my capacity as Prime Minister is also on the basis of the facts, the fact-checking and the content to determine what position the government can take. I said that the government had chosen to continue the work, since objections to this pact were expressed in some European countries after the UN General Assembly. These political debates have also opened in Belgium. The question is to see to what extent a position can be defined. To be very clear, my intention is to stay on course. I expressed an opinion. There is a debate within the government. We will pursue it with the four parties of the majority. Of course, when the time comes, my responsibility will be to submit a proposal to Kern. Unlike some, I think it is healthy for a parliamentary debate to take place. Through a motion for a resolution and through hearings, more nuanced exchanges can take place - far from the rather short slogans I have heard - and will enable everyone to form an opinion on this text. I want to be quite clear: in September, I expressed an opinion at the United Nations that everyone knows. There is no doubt in this regard. I keep going and continue the work within the government. In the coming days, when the time comes, as Prime Minister, I will submit a proposal to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u16	Maintenir le cap, that's what the Prime Minister will do. So we all know, ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, what that means: it will depend on the parliamentary debate and on the vote that will follow. This means that the N-VA will eventually have to bite in the sand and swallow this pact. So take up your responsibilities, Mr De Roover, Mr Jambon, Mr Francken and others, and make sure that you use your blocking majority within this government not to implement this pact. Australia, Bulgaria, Brazil, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Japan, Croatia, Austria, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia, the Czech Republic, the United States and Switzerland: all extreme right, all fascists, all neo-Nazis, all foreigners haters? Of course. But all these democratic countries will not endorse this pact! Follow them and do not end up in the camp of the countries that do. Who are they, Mr. De Roover? That is all African countries, all of them, without distinction! Those are all the Islamic countries! They support it, and why? Because it benefits them. Let us end up in the camp of those who reject immigration, not in the camp of the African and Islamic countries, who only want to increase immigration to solve their problems and kill Europe once and for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u17	Mr Prime Minister, I am not against a fact-check of the migration pact, but it is a pity that this is happening now and not two years ago, when that document was started. I am, frankly, very disappointed in your government. You started very well in 2014 with something that could have become a full recovery policy, but as far as asylum and migration are concerned, I only see a Twitter policy. A secretary of state shouldn't just tweet what it says, he should do what it says. After four years of tweets by Francken, I can see that Belgium is not the country of the chosen migration, but it is the country of lower migration. We're going through the migration, nothing but that. I hope, quite frankly, that another government will address the problem and that it will not be too late.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u18	Prime Minister, the good democratic news is that there is an overwhelming majority in Parliament to support that agreement. We offer you a majority against the tandem N-VA and Flemish Interest. In fact, in my humble opinion, you are at a crucial moment in your political career. Will you later have to admit that you have gone overboard for extreme right-wing and populism, or will you later be able to say that you have remained consistent and that you have continued to defend our Belgian values and standards proudly? The choice is entirely yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u19	Prime Minister, we heard your non-response. Once again, you refuse to take sides in this debate, under pressure from an extreme international right, which you denounced in your speech to the United Nations. You are now under pressure from the demagogy that you were denouncing at the United Nations. I still want to go back to the big taboo of this case, the question that no one ever talks about. These are the root causes that cause people to flee their country. The causes of migration are completely removed from the debate. These are the wars being waged by NATO and your government. These are the climatic problems against which this government does almost nothing, since it is a bad student of the class. And then, it is this misery of the world that does not diminish, which even increases, caused by international capitalism, and that even development cooperation does not manage to fill a little. You have been Minister for Development Cooperation. Finally, as Prime Minister, your government drastically reduces this cooperation. One day, the root causes of migration will still have to be discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, the yellow vest movement will not go out of breath and tell President Macron that in France it will not go out of breath either. Indeed, this movement is not ephemeral. People are angry. People are tired of your politics. They express it in every possible way with, today, a mobilization in our country. People are tired of having to see that it is in Belgium that the price of diesel is the highest of all European countries, that Belgium is the third most expensive country in terms of electricity, that wage moderation is practised in Belgium, that there has been an index jump in Belgium which has led to the loss of 2% of purchasing power. People are sick of it! That's why they're mobilizing, and they're right. I had the opportunity to meet a delegation of these yellow vests. They are people from all walks of society, young and old, public service workers, private workers, self-employed, pensioners. These people mobilize every day, take days off to participate in the action. They organize constructive operations and enjoy incredible support from the public. What is the response of right-wing politicians today? Nothing! Yes, you responded by saying that there was a perception problem. Are you serious, Prime Minister? Go and explain to people that 800 million more diesel excises, that's perception! I don't know if you realize. It is true that with 10,000 euros, we feel it a little less, but, in any case, as far as I am concerned, with my 1,700 euros, I can tell you that, when I go to the pump, the 5 euros in addition that I pay are felt. It is this extra 5 euros that we pay each time we make a full that contribute to pushing people into misery. My question is very clear, Prime Minister: will you finally listen to the demands of the social movement in general and of the yellow vests in particular? Will you agree to review the 21 % VAT on electricity, i.e. a rate of VAT as high as that applied to caviar or champagne, to reduce it to 6 %? Will you agree to go back to the ratchet mechanism that transforms progressive taxation into unfair taxation? Are you going to allow – this question is important – the wages to finally increase again in our country? The last time I asked you to live for a month with someone who receives an unemployment benefit of 1,011 euros because you decided to apply the degression. But you still haven't answered me about it. I therefore ask you the question today: will you continue to apply these measures, which will cause thousands of people to suffer poverty and continue this anti-social policy? I am very curious to hear your answers, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u21	Mr President, Prime Minister, in this chamber we sometimes hear excessive or even caricatural comments. On budgetary or fiscal issues, depending on whether you are speaking from the benches of the majority or from those of the opposition, you can have radically different positions, hence the interest of sometimes taking a little step backwards and risking international comparisons. Unfortunately, when we try this exercise, it must be noted that comparisons are not necessarily in Belgium's favour with regard to the budget. There are certainly countries that are in a much more difficult situation than we are. Italy, in particular, is experiencing real difficulties, but the experts from the European Commission who came to the Finance Committee this week explained why they were putting Belgium's budget under control. Like other countries such as France, Spain, Portugal and Slovenia, we are not among the good students of the European class in budgetary matters. On the tax side, we just got another piece of information. It comes from Eurostat. There, too, we are not one of the good students. There's worse than us again. France is the most taxing country, but we are now in second place. We are doing worse than Denmark, which, however, has very high standards of taxation. The tax and parafiscal burden in Belgium increased between 2016 and 2017, from 46.7% to 47.3% of GDP. Prime Minister, what is your reaction to these international data? Do you consider this to be a fake news to be swept away with a back of your hand or is there anything to ask yourself about how you conduct fiscal and fiscal policy and how you achieve or not the objectives you set yourself at the beginning of the legislature? The objective of your government agreement is to reduce the tax and parafiscal burden in this country. Today it appears that we are the second most taxed country in Europe. I look forward to hearing from you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u22	Mr. President, Prime Minister, the yellow vest movement is multifaceted. Let us have intellectual honesty to recognize that sometimes some of the claims or expressions are excessive. I read yesterday the book of claims of the French yellow vests. Commenter Jean-François Kahn said that it is sometimes very conservative people who carry a program worthy of the insubmissive in France. In Belgium, this may be a more weighted expression, even if there has been excess behaviour. I also congratulate those responsible for the yellow vests who immediately marked their distance from the breakers who tried to infiltrate this movement of citizens, rather peaceful at the beginning. In short, what focuses this movement – probably rightly because it is what the consumer perceives more than other tax increases – is the price at the pump. For a number of citizens, the car remains necessary, especially to get to work. Let us never forget this: it is the inadequacy of our public transport policy that obliges many citizens to use their personal vehicles, certainly for all those who do not have the advantage of a company car, the largest number of citizens. What shockes the citizen is the ratchet system. It has its historical raison d'être: the 2003 programme law, which was the result of the Kyoto agreements. But what is excessive in this system is the fact that today, in view of the evolution of the price of oil, both the positive ratchet and the negative ratchet are no longer adapted according to the reference ceilings. Or, more precisely, the reference ceilings should be reviewed. Moreover, if we had not had in 2011 a revision of these reference ceilings to make the ratchets work, we would now have a reduction in the excise duty on diesel, in any case. Prime Minister, I would ask you to take into account the fact that the Royal Order of 2011 setting the ceilings for the use of ratchets, both positive and negative, must be substantially modified in order for the increase in excise duties to be substantially reduced for the price at the pump.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u23	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I, too, read Eurostat statistics. Like any local agent in direct contact with the population, I am concerned, like all of us, about the increase in the cost of living. When we look at these statistics, we realize that since 2000, prices in Europe have risen by 36.5%. In Belgium we are at 38%. Some expenditure, such as on tobacco and alcohol, has almost doubled across Europe. When analysing the cost of education, it is noted that in Europe it has increased by 91% and by 69% in Belgium. Sometimes we're a little better than the others. In Europe, the cost of housing, water, gas and electricity increased by 37%. That's 36% of us. The rise in prices is a serious European phenomenon that we are concerned about. Of course, the movement of the yellow vests is extremely challenging. We have seen how this happened in Greece and Italy at the time of the budgetary restrictions. We realize that the problem in France is even more serious than at home and that this spontaneous movement of citizens, not organized, without a spokesperson, is worrying and must challenge us. We know that this is of course the government's concern since the beginning of the legislature. We probably didn't succeed, but a whole series of decisions were made to improve the situation of people, low- and middle-income people. Beyond the clichés, Prime Minister, I would like to know how the government responds to this call and how it will respond to this call from people on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I want to point out that we distinguish between people, citizens, yellow vests that express anger, opinion, a claim, and breakers who sometimes engage in criminal delinquent behaviour. Mr Hedebouw, I always listen to your great lessons on all subjects with great interest. I am proud to live in a democracy in which citizens have the right to demonstrate, to express their anger, to be against a government; not like the models you want, like that of Venezuela, for example, where people are crushed when they are wrong to express their opinion and freedom. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of purchasing power has indeed been a central issue for this government since the first day. We have addressed it through income, since 55% of the tax shift was mobilised to strengthen and increase the lows and the wage means: 140 euros per month additional compared to four years ago, an additional thirteenth month. You can continue – it is the trademark of extremists, populists, anti-democratics, Mr. Hedebouw – to set out counter-truths Thursday after Thursday. It is not the repetition of your lies that turns them into truths. We have also valued the social envelopes that have been increased to 100% for the awards of allowances. The increase in the lowest pensions for employees and self-employed was stronger under this government than under the previous government. But an important point is indeed the evolution of spending on everyday life and how to deal with it, as Mr Piedboeuf rightly pointed out. I would like to announce the message, the government's willingness to hear these expressions, those expectations that are not perceptions. These are, of course, daily realities felt by many citizens. We need to be able to hear them in order to turn this anger into positive projects, into plans for a solution based on facts, and to ensure that the energy transition is successful – just now, a question will be raised on this subject – while ensuring, as Nicolas Hulot said, that it is not incompatible with the end of the month. It is necessary to make coincide the stakes of the "end of the month and the end of the world". Finally, a very specific question was asked about the size of excise duties. This is obviously an element that has a significant impact on household budgets, especially when you have to work and in some cases you need a car. There may not be alternatives for everyone. In this regard, I did ask that we look at the opportunities at the government level for monitoring, the assessments to see to what extent favourable decisions could be made. I want to be careful at this point because checks are necessary on this subject, but I really want to indicate the availability, if this movement was more structured with representatives, to listen to, to conduct consultations, consultations so that angers, demands can be transformed into positive projects but also to tell the truth. We can't plead everything and the opposite. We cannot say that we need means to commit investments for climate change and, at the same time, to make it look like money is free and falls from the sky. When we say that we need more social support for energy transformations, there is someone who pays, an addition has to be settled: either by companies – with an impact on investments and potential jobs – or by workers. You must also have the courage of the truth. That is what we are advocating with this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u25	Prime Minister, frankly, you're not ashamed? You dare to accuse us of being liars, we who denounce the increase in diesel by 20%. Do you deny this increase? Do you deny the 10% gas hit? That's the numbers, that's what people live on a day-to-day basis. How dare you call us liars? You say someone has to pay. It's obvious. Ask all these oil companies, which have billions of profits, to take care of it. You mentioned EUR 800 million for excise duties. During the election campaign, the PTB defended free public transport. The political world had reacted unanimously to the claim that it was utopia. Do you know the cost of free TECs? EUR 120 million. One sixth of the EUR 800 million in excise duties could therefore have been invested to achieve this objective. But not a euro is invested in energy and environmental policies. This is where your hypocrisy lies! It's really amazing! You deny the facts, Prime Minister. You better not deny them and listen to what people are saying. Finally, I come to an important point: democracy. Many yellow vests complain of increasingly relentless repression. I would like to know what it looks like to another country that would prohibit any form of demonstration in a neutral zone. What would it say if it happened in Latin America, Africa or Asia? That's amazing! At home, crossing the neutral zone is forbidden. As soon as we get here, we're on board. These are democratic problems. Then do not try to break the movement by repression; you will not succeed, for the anger is very deep! You will also see them grow in Flanders. The people will rise up more and more. It will require politicians to get the money from the rich! Go get money from the rich and not from the workers!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister, there is one point I agree with Mr Piedboeuf. That's when he says you probably didn't make it all. You did not succeed in restoring the budgetary balance, which was one of the objectives. You haven't managed to reduce the tax burden, at least not as much as you announced. Popular wisdom says that "when you look at yourself, you feel sorry for yourself and when you compare yourself, you console yourself". To comfort yourself, you have to compare yourself to Venezuela. It is true that the comparison is to your advantage but we compare ourselves with other European countries, particularly France, we have no objective reason to rejoice. In reality, we are experiencing the same budgetary and fiscal difficulties as France, and we can fear that the same causes will produce the same effects, that is to say, this anger which is also felt through the manifestation of yellow vests. Prime Minister, you say you want to hear this anger. Of which act! But in concrete terms, you are not announcing much in terms of measures to improve purchasing power or to reduce the tax burden. While waiting to improve Belgium's ranking at European level in terms of tax and parafiscal pressure, one can always console oneself by saying that one does better than Venezuela!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u27	Mr President, Prime Minister, yes, we could have a long debate on the evolution of purchasing power under your government. I came with a concrete and precise proposal because I believe that at some point we must move forward with solutions that are within reach, far from certain purely ideological and caricatural debates. I note that you seem to be taking into account the proposal I made to review the rattling effect of excise duties on petroleum products. Prime Minister, I believe that we need to give a quick signal to the citizens on how to re-evaluate this mechanism, which is totally excessive today and is no longer justified for a number of reasons. This does not mean that we do not need to think about the taxation of certain products which are involved in pollution causes and the convergence of the rates of oil products of any kind. More fundamentally, we are now waiting, Prime Minister, for you to give the signal of a reduction in excise duties on certain petroleum products. It's a social necessity!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u28	Prime Minister, I said that the yellow vest movement was a spontaneous citizen movement. It therefore does not belong to the PTB. The PTB is used to making a big soup with everything, but the citizen movement does not belong to the PTB, Mr. Hedebouw! In relation to the fact that we don't succeed in everything, Mr. Dispa, that's right, but we're doing the best we can. You know very well that in order to achieve budgetary balance, positions would have to be further tightened. That is what we do not want because we want a balance. As far as excise duties are concerned, the major difference of this government is that the increase in excise duties was used as a tax shift, that is to say a redistribution, which was not the case before. In the past, excise duties were increased and this fell into the government's scarlet. Here, we redistribute. That's the big difference. So we don't succeed in everything, but we try to succeed in the essentials. The breakers, in any case, as we have said, are always the same: the extremists on the left or on the right. They are not concerned about purchasing power. It is to sow disorder and break democracy. And that, Prime Minister, we cannot accept it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u29	Minister, last week the socialist union raised the alarm: there would be no room for wage increases in the coming years. Is that because of the pay handicap? No, it has been eliminated, as you yourself have announced. Is that because of the economy? No, it's still growing. Is that because there are no wage increases in neighbouring countries? That is not the case either, because there are wage increases there. Then why is there no margin? There is no margin because the government has reformed the wage bill. You have included so many exceptions and so many extras in the reform in that law that there is no margin of pay in our country anymore. Our prosperity is growing, but our employees' wages are not growing, while our shareholders' shares are growing. The profits of our shareholders have increased by 270 %. That is unacceptable. That's enough. It is high time that the workers in our country also got their fair share. Wasn't it meant to reward the hardworking Flame? It is time for workers to benefit from economic growth. Don't come up with the story that people's purchasing power has increased because of the tax shift. In the meantime, people know better. Some may have received a higher net wage, but they also received an index jump and higher invoices for electricity, water and fuel. Minister, I think it is time to give the workers in our country their share. I just have one question. Is the government prepared to give the social partners the room to talk about wage increases?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u30	Minister, workers can't do it anymore. Many of them are no longer able to complete their end of the month. It's a reality. Your new taxes have increased the price of electricity and diesel, as we have just said: 3.2 billion euros have been taken in the workers' pocket in five years. Your index jump is $12.5 billion. Your government has diminished the purchasing power of our fellow citizens. It's a fact. The figures of the European Commission are clear: Belgium is one of the few countries where the purchasing power of workers has decreased. The ILO recently confirmed this. You ask the workers to tighten their belts as the dividends and remuneration of the big employer explode. You're going to say this isn't the first time we've spoken on the subject. However, yesterday, we learn that because of your law passed last year, the wage margin is likely to be zero. What does that mean? This means that no wage increases in 2019 and 2020 will be possible. And you are responsible, Minister. It was you who carried the reform of this law. We told you. This will harm the workers, but you didn't want to listen. Minister, if you continue with your policy of attacking workers, don't be surprised at the end of social peace in our country! Minister, having not wanted to confirm in the press that the margin was zero, can you assure us that there will be a margin to negotiate? If the wage margin is zero, as announced, are you going to apply the competitiveness law outright and hard, and thus freeze wage growth for the next two years or will you find alternative solutions? How will you guarantee social peace in our country as the mobilization of trade unions and citizens against your measures increases?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u31	Ms Kitir, Mr Daerden, it is inaccurate that the Central Economic Council would have provisional figures on the maximum margin available. The Council is still doing its calculations. Due to the fact that some international data are still missing, the technical report on the maximum available margin will not be ready until mid-January, instead of mid-December, as foreseen by law. The Central Council for Business will deliver the technical report, which will indicate the margins. I regret that signals are already being given as if that technical report is already ready. Representatives of both employers and employees are present in the Central Council for Business. I hope that we will be able to keep the necessary calm and not rush everyone, without talking about this margin with figures in hand. Moreover, I cannot appreciate that people do not start from facts and figures. A real wage margin of 1.1 % has been given in recent years, on the basis of the interprofessional agreement. Moreover, even if you do not like this, Mrs Kitir, thanks to the tax shift, there was an increase in net wages. Yesterday, in the Leuven Economic Positions, it was calculated that all changes in the government's taxation and benefits resulted in a purchasing power gain of 5.2 %. The National Bank has also underlined this in other studies. You can ignore that and you can say that that is not true, but it is a question of studies by highly venerable experts and institutions. Sometimes I read things I can't understand. In an interview, it was literally stated that according to the Central Council for Business, the margin would be "0.2 %." All this would be based on the law of 1996. Those are two falsehoods! Firstly, the Central Council for Business has not yet made anything public, because the technical report is not yet ready. Secondly, Article 6 (4) of the 1996 Law clearly states that one should never go below zero. Yet all this is declared without a can or blush. That is very unfortunate, because it puts people on the wrong track. I shall conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I call on you to look at the file with the necessary seriousness. I understand that people are worried about wage developments. They also wonder whether a wage increase is possible. I can understand those concerns and questions, but let us remain calm and wait for the technical report. We have ensured that the social partners can negotiate the wage standard. Moreover, the amendment of the 1996 law was discussed very expertly and frequently with the Central Council for Business. The decision and responsibility ultimately lie with us, but we have provided for consultation. There has been very careful action, including in the revision of the 1996 law. I believe that we should give every opportunity to the interprofessional consultation, which normally starts in January. The necessary documents should be provided for such consultations. In mid-January, the Central Business Council will take care of this. At that time we can discuss this again, but on the basis of reports and not on the basis of newspaper articles full of falsehood.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u32	Mr Minister, let me begin with a positive remark: you understand that the workers in our country are asking for their wages to rise as the economy grows. That is a logical reasoning, because they have contributed. If it is seen that profits for shareholders are almost tripled and that does not yet happen for employees, then that is a legitimate concern. That concern is expressed in various forms today. For the yellow hoes it is not just about high diesel prices; that is the drop that overflows the bucket. You say today, Minister, that we must not cause panic, but enough is enough. You are supposedly basing yourself on the facts, but the 2-percent index jump has also felt the workers. The VAT increase from 6 to 21 percent has also felt the workers. The higher water bills also feel the workers. They contribute to the economy, which is doing well and growing. They must therefore also have their share of it. In the middle of January, we will have the debate again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u33	Mr Vice-President, there is a risk of a zero wage margin, do not deny it! For you, don't worry, we're waiting for January 15th. We're worried. You prefer to wait to take action and we regret your passivity, because it is now that we must return to reason and reassure the workers that their wages will increase. Take your responsibilities, anticipate and stop weighing the weight of your reforms on the backs of the workers!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u34	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you said in the press this morning that you intend to reactivate the bill on the right to be forgotten. As a reminder, this is a faster access to insurance for people who have suffered from serious pathologies. It may be necessary to remember that for people who have been subject to a heavy pathology such as cancer, regaining insurance is a combatant's journey. There are a number of deeply unjust situations in which the persons concerned have to suffer. We welcome your willingness to move forward on this issue. If my information is correct, you have had the opportunity to meet and pass through patient associations: Kom op tegen Kanker, the Cancer Foundation. Test-Achats also gives, at first glance, a positive opinion. If the combatant's path is that of the patients, he may also be yours. Minister, what people are going to be really interested in this project? Some patients ask themselves the question. For what types of pathologies and types of insurance? Could you give us more specific information about the direction of your project? Ultimately, the key is with the insurers. In your opinion, what is the position of insurers on your proposals? Can your project be implemented quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u35	Mr Thiéry, we have in fact drawn up a legal framework for a right to be forgotten. It is based on the principle that, when an outstanding balance insurance has been concluded, certain medical history must be forgotten. Thus, the survivors are not, years later, again financially affected by the pathology. As you have rightly stated, such a right to forget already exists in France. So we were inspired by it in the development of this bill. The latter provides that upon the expiry of a period of 10 years, the insurer may no longer take into account the risk of pathology present in the candidate policyholder in its assessment. For minors, this period is reduced to five years. In addition, we will - as French legislation provides - develop a reference grid for different types of cancer and certain chronic diseases. I have submitted my proposals to the consumer and patient associations, which have expressed their satisfaction with my initiative. Then they presented me with some suggestions to improve the project, which then took them back. I am continuing my consultation with my colleague Maggie De Block with the aim of enabling her to support the text. I hope that all the exact and detailed information can be transmitted after the approval of the draft by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u36	Minister, thank you. The question of whether your project was ready for the Council of Ministers was a subsidiary question. You obviously just gave the answer. I understand that there is still a need for consultation with Minister De Block. Knowing his usual enthusiasm, I am not afraid of the outcome of this consultation, but I would like to remind the minister that the expectations are enormous. You have made statements in the press that have given hope to the patients concerned, with very heavy pathologies, sometimes very difficult to accept psychologically and to assume. I have heard that the patient associations and other associations concerned have been concerted. I hope, however, that you will be able to make the insurers understand that they have an extremely important role to play, once again in the interests of the patients who remain at the centre of our debates in the Committee on Public Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u37	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, in recent years this government has been able to create many jobs on the basis of many of your proposals. With the work deal, additional efforts are now being made to get the jobs completed. Figures of 27 000 enterprises with more than 10 employees show a significant increase in the number of jobs. The number of jobs with a fixed contract increased by 2.6 %. The number of temporary contracts and interim contracts increased three times more than the number of fixed contracts. In the past, we have taken a lot of measures to limit day contracts. In this context, the social partners agreed to reduce the number of day-to-day contracts by 20% by 2020. We welcome this well-meaning intention, but reality teaches us that the little protective temporary measures are still being used too much and, above all, that young people remain in it for far too long. Indeed, 42% of interim workers are under 25 years of age and often continue to work under interim contracts for one to several years. However, this cannot be the intention of interim work, because it leads to great uncertainty, because these young people want to work for their future and want security. In view of this negative trend, we would like to take some more compelling measures. That is why we are proposing to limit the number of interim contracts in companies with more than 50 employees to, for example, 10%. The aim is, firstly, to reduce the number of daily contracts by 20% by 2020 and, secondly, to give young people a faster prospect of a fixed contract and security of employment. All too often temporary contracts are presented as a springboard to a fixed contract, and in many cases they are, but in many other cases young people involved are stuck in temporary contracts or in interim contracts, up to more than a year. This cannot be the intention of temporary contracts or interim work. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, we would like to find an ally in you to support the proposals that we will also make to the social partners, so that the transition from a temporary contract to a fixed contract is speeded up. Perhaps you have other measures in mind to encourage employers to offer a fixed contract more quickly. Can we expect initiatives from you in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vercamer, it may be clear, first of all, that I am convinced, together with you and perhaps everyone in this Chamber, that temporary work and, worse still, day contracts must not lead to a precarious status for workers and certainly not for young people. Let it be clear, if someone, including a young person, is constantly in such a situation and asks for and wants a fixed contract, then that must be possible. However, we must also keep a close eye on the figures. The figures for Belgium, from the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Consultation, show that the share of flexible jobs in the new employment remains stable over a longer period of ten years. Even more importantly, Belgium is and remains the international leader in the proportion of contracts of employment of indefinite duration. In the fourth quarter of 2016, 90.4 % of wage-earners in our labour market had an employment contract of indefinite duration. That is where we are at the top. As an example, Denmark is going to be the second with 86.9 %. Thank God many people with an indefinite contract of employment work here in Belgium. This does not mean that we should not pay due attention to the other percentages, especially as regards young people. That's what we did. It follows from your proposal or request that I inform you that we have asked the National Labour Council to address the problem, especially with regard to successive day contracts. The Council gave an opinion on 24 July 2018 and also committed to achieving a global reduction of 20% in the proportion of successive contracts in the total number of temporary agency contracts. We will follow that commitment with the RSZ very closely. We also have the collective agreement No. 108 which concerns, inter alia, the control procedures. It is very important that we take a very close and priority approach to the monitoring of temporary agency work with the Inspectorate for the Supervision of Social Laws. Finally, I am open to any proposal to move forward on the issue of the precarious status for workers, especially for young people. We did that. The social partners must meet the 20% reduction commitment. We must, of course, also take into account the European framework and, for example, the European directive which provides that restrictions on the use of temporary agency workers can only be justified for reasons of general interest. So we have taken a number of actions and are open to further additional initiatives, but the European framework is very clear on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u39	Minister, it is a very good thing that our country is doing well with regard to fixed contracts, but that does not relieve us of the duty to make every effort for those who work for a long time with a temporary or interim contract so that they can be more secure. They too want to build a family at some point, make financial commitments to housing and so on. So, please, let us work together to keep temporary contracts and interim contracts to a minimum.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u40	Minister, when it came to increasing the time limit for police custody from 24 hours to 48 hours, we had fundamental debates as these are individual freedoms. Given the need for terrorist actions and the need for agreement on this constitutional revision, we were only considering this formula in the context of terrorist actions and not in the context of all offences. You then told us that it was difficult to make a difference – if only for reasons of qualification – and that we had to trust our magistrates and lawyers and that the problems would probably not arise. In order to give us guarantees and to encourage us to approve this request for amendment of the deadline, you have made us admit, in the legislation accompanying the constitutional revision, a section 30 which should encourage us to vote with the majority. I quote the text of the time: "Within three years we will make an assessment of the situation on the basis of criteria which a royal decree will determine." We are now one year after the entry into force of this provision. On the occasion of the footgate, as has been called, lawyers note that longer deadlines allow instructions to drag longer. People who were arrested and who were interrogated at the 23rd hour today are arrested at the 46th or 47th. This does not meet the objectives of the Act. The law was not intended to extend the duration of police custody for the sake of pleasure, but rather to allow for a better appreciation of the situations faced in the event of great banditry or terrorism. Mr Minister, today I must observe, with the criminal lawyers, with the lawyers.be, with those who have been somewhat rolled in flour by your commitments, that the royal decree is still not published. I don't know where you are or how you're doing today to already have figures that allow you to say that what lawyers accuse – that is, the increase in the detention period – is not correct or that, on the contrary, it is. On the basis of what figures, in two years' time, will we be able to make a proper assessment of this new development in legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u41	My colleague, as you said, this Parliament has amended the Constitution for three fundamental reasons. First, to ensure better enforcement of the Salduz Act and better guarantee the rights of the defence. A lawyer and, if necessary, an interpreter must be available to the arrested person. Secondly, because, in the context of organised crime – when there are many or many perpetrators and accomplices – it is necessary to ensure that they can all be questioned before releasing some by chance or inadvertently. Third, because, from time to time, one was afraid of making a mistake by releasing someone who could be guilty, once the 24-hour delay had passed. These three reasons led us to amend the Constitution. From a comparative European perspective, I think I can say that we have not exaggerated. Moreover, as you rightly said, these changes have not only been made in the context of terrorism, but in a general context. The cases to which you referred show that these changes may be interesting in cases other than those related to terrorism. I am thinking in particular of the alleged corruption in football. I inquired about the feelings of some lawyers and lawyers.be told me that a lawyer did indeed say that he had that impression. But for now, I don't have figures to support her. You rightly say that we have planned an evaluation for 2020 to be published on 30 June 2021. Justice will deliver on its commitments in this regard. The Royal Decree, which records, by type of crime or offence, the time limits for arrest, is in preparation for the month of January. I do this work in collaboration with the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u42	Minister, I was not asking you to repeat the history of why we went from 24 to 48 hours. This debate took place. I was asking you how you can give correct figures at the time of the evaluation, scheduled for 2020. You have just accepted the idea that these figures do not exist today. These are impressions. Perhaps lawyers have impressions, but our assessment work, at the time it is to be done, will have to be based on numbers. This is what you promised to follow with this royal decree, which, a little more than a year later, is still not taken and which, in your opinion, will not be taken until next year. I think it's a question of credibility on your part. Mr. Minister, you've made a commitment. This is an essential element that has allowed certain groups to follow you in this amending text of the Constitution. We therefore expect you to respect this political commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u43	Madam Secretary, in five years time there are 3 798 incidents involving hip prostheses, knee prostheses and pacemakers. One even speaks of three dead. One in ten women have to have her breast implant removed because of health problems. Colleagues, when I read that, I was shocked. There is clearly too little control of implants, even before they come on the market. A spinal implant, whose test on monkeys had completely failed, was still simply applied to humans. That's how people almost look like experimental animals. If there are incidents, apparently they'll be covered up. Can you imagine that? If there is a problem with a toy or a car, then the manufacturer calls it back, but if there is a problem with a knee prosthesis, then we keep it from the people who are implanted with one of these. It's about people. If you get side effects from a pill, you stop taking that pill. Unfortunately, one cannot just take off a prosthetic. Therefore, the control of prostheses and implants cannot be rigorous enough and every implant must be traceable so that problems can be dealt with and no other victims can be killed. Madam Secretary, I hear now that you will solve the problem. As early as 2015, we asked you the first question. You've been Minister for more than four years. With regard to traceability, there was a law in place and all you had to do was implement it. What stopped you from doing that? What stopped you from working on a more stringent ex ante check over the last four years? What stopped you from working on the transparency of incidents over the last four years?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u44	Mr President, Minister, the number of citizens who receive an implant is increasing every year. The control must therefore be waterproof. She's not today. However, it is about products that are placed in our bodies. Madam Minister, can we be strict about that? Can there be strict control of that? Above all, can we trust that there will be no citizens' lives in danger? The incidents are massive. It concerns poor labelling, incorrect instructions for use, technical defects and questionable quality labels. And that's just the tip of the iceberg, because these are reports from the manufacturers themselves and not from the patients. They do not dare to complain because they depend on the same doctor who placed their implant in the event of complications. How can a public service with only 60 officials control half a million implants a year? Aspirin is checked more closely in our country than a hip prosthesis and with a medicine there is a package leaflet for the patient, whereas this is not the case with an implant. The implant sector is a million-dollar business, and if something is a million-dollar business, then fraud and profit is lurking around the corner. Surgeons themselves have declared in the media that they are getting money put away by manufacturers. This is hallucinating and threatens public health. I have only one question for you, Madam Secretary. How will you do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u45	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say something positive: implants do medical miracles. They make cripples go again and deaf hear back. That's a positive story we're allowed to bring here. On the other hand, many victims became known as a result of the Implant Files. In Belgium, as you know, four thousand incidents were reported to the FAGG. It is striking that in Belgium a hip prosthesis is not controlled more strongly than a vacuum cleaner, but the difference is that a vacuum cleaner does not end up in a body. Back prostheses that crumble in one's own body, artificial hips that poison the blood: we have all heard testimonies about that in the last few days, and that is shocking. The same procedures and safeguards applicable to the pharmaceutical industry should also apply to implants. That is what our group stands for. It is therefore aberrant that, for example, implant manufacturers can go shopping and buy the CE labels from the notified bodies. That is unacceptable, as is a butcher who approves his own meat. If there are incidents, they'll be reported to the FAGG, but that doesn't do anything about it. There will be no warnings to doctors or patients. In the media the last few days it was reported that nothing has appeared in the last year. As a test on the sum it appears that the implant manufacturers have paid €7.35 million to doctors and healthcare professionals in the form of premiums and benefits. Surgeons need to provide the best possible medical care. They need to look at the quality, not the implants that bring the most. I am convinced that the vast majority of doctors act to their honour and conscience and give the best medical care to their patients, but, like everywhere else, there are rotten apples here. They have to be removed, because the patient must not suffer from this. You've already taken a lot of action. The transparency register, for example, is a good thing. The question is whether this does not need enlargement. What do you think of the revelations? How do you feel about the relationship between surgery and industry? Shouldn't there be an independent body to check the implants? What are you doing today for patients who have a lot of questions? Where can they register?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u46	Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Dedry, Mrs Van Hoof, the Implant Files were announced Sunday evening. This is a survey conducted by 250 journalists in 36 countries for 8 months. So there had to be a way out of that. Mrs Van Hoof, I am glad that you underline that implants have not saved the lives of thousands of people. Implants save lives, think of the heart valves. There was a time when they couldn't be placed and people died from it. Also lost body functions can now be restored. In the majority of cases implants improve the patient's quality of life. A zero risk is not there for an implant and can't be there either. It is often a technical matter. It should also be stressed that the insertion of an implant always presupposes that the patient's implant needs to be assessed in an informed and informed manner. The insertion itself must of course also be done with the necessary expertise. After all, one can have an implant of good quality, but if the person inserting the implant does not do a good job, then there are still adverse effects. It is unjustly insinuated that incident reports around implants are kept secret. That is absolutely not the case. However, unlike in the United States, these reports in Europe are not published in full on the Agency's website. These documents are difficult to read. I've been sent a couple of them, and it's actually reading for professionals. They say nothing is done about it. However, nothing is less true. The doctor and the hospital who placed the implant will be informed accordingly. They should then contact the patient and continue to accompany them. The role of the doctor is therefore crucial in this. After diagnosis and in consultation with the patient, the treatment that best suits is chosen. If there are incidents with an implant, it is the responsibility of the hospital and the treating physician to ensure the follow-up. The safety and correction reports for implants are, of course, sent to the hospitals via the material monitoring points installed. They are concerned in function of taking the appropriate actions. The most important thing is that the hospital and the doctor are given the necessary information to take care of the patient. Indeed, I did not wait for the Implant Files to strengthen the services of the FAGG and the RIZIV involved. In short, at the FAGG I quadrupled the services, and at the RIZIV I doubled the number of people working on them. We have also been able to attract other profiles. It's highly-educated profiles. Not only doctors or pharmacists, but also civil engineers. The central tracing register, which we have been working on for two years, was there. That was a test run. But there were still difficulties with ICT. They've been solved, and now it's in a second test phase. So it's definitely gonna work on it. The Central Tracking Register is almost there. With the medical technology pact, which we concluded in 2016, we went far beyond the 2013 law. That pact never came into being, but it's still online. I invite everyone to see what's in there, including the tracking register. Meanwhile, there is already a tracking register, but in each hospital separately. It would indeed be easier if there were one tracking register. There are, of course, also problems with the evaluation committee. It was installed in 1999, but the number of meetings was often insufficient and there was not always the necessary expertise in the house. At the moment there is a draft for the government to give that evaluation committee a more modern interpretation and make it a workable committee. Meanwhile, the work was done by the FAGG itself and services have given me the necessary information. As regards the entanglement of interests between industry, doctors and nurses, and also universities, they certainly need to act ethically, professionally and deontologically. I installed the Sunshine Act www.betransparent.be. Everything has to be inserted twice, both by the firm and by who gets the implant. There's a hotline at the agency. One simply goes to the FAGG site and clicks on to the hotline. When there are problems, we can see the procedure that will be followed there. I asked you to display that hotline even more prominently and to put it on the opening page of the FAGG.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u47	Madam Minister, indeed, what Mrs Van Hoof says is true: of course implants and prostheses represent great progress. That is precisely why it is so important that it is dealt with in a serious way. Today I read in the newspaper that someone who sends a complaint to your cabinet is told that you are not competent. I know you didn't say that yourself, but the fact that someone from your cabinet says that means that you haven't been too busy and that it's not too familiar. Two years, you say, two years. However, you have been a minister for almost five years, and there was a law that you apparently left behind for two and a half years before you started to implement it. You didn't do anything about the ex ante check.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u48	Mrs Jiroflée, I think the Minister is entitled to a brief comment as a personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u49	Mrs. Jiroflée, you're full of shit. If I get a complaint, she'll be forwarded to the appropriate agency. However, if there is a complaint about an incident involving a poorly placed prosthesis 15 years ago, there is nothing I can do about it. [[Tumult]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u50	I understand from this that complaints from 15 years ago, which people have suffered for 15 years, do not matter. That's what I understand. [[Tumult]] Madam Secretary, you started implementing the law too late. You have done nothing about the ex ante check and you have done nothing to ensure that incidents are systematically reported to the people who have similar prosthesis. There is a name for that, Madam Minister: it is called guilty negligence, at least guilty negligence. The incident is closed. The incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u51	Madam Secretary, you say the reports are too technical to be made public. I really don't think that's an argument. A patient is entitled to sound information, both on the quality of the implant and on the complications that are possible. If I have surgery on my heart or any other organ, I need an informed consent from myself. This is not the case with implants. It can't be. That is contrary to the law on patients' rights. I'll give you a tip. You know I'm always constructive. You want to create clusters for expertise in pancreatic cancer or esophageal cancer. Don't you think it's high time we did this for prosthetics?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u52	I already have.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u53	It is very important that victims are properly compensated, for example through the Medical Accidents Fund. Let manufacturers make a contribution to that fund of their own profits. In this way, we can properly compensate patients who have been mismastered.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u54	Madam Secretary, it is actually very simple. If car manufacturers are dealing with an airbag that does not function, the model is immediately recalled. This is the problem in the implant business today. I know that you have already done a great deal: to create transparency, to provide additional staff, to set the evaluation committee back on track, to put the RB in order with regard to tracing. These are important things that must be done, but the problem is higher. There is a general European problem. That's also true in the Implant Files. I believe that the European Medicines Agency should be extended to an implant agency. Why should we not start with this ourselves and ensure that implants are inspected and then supervised by an independent agency? It is not appropriate for implant manufacturers to shop with different types of notified bodies. That's gotta go all the way out. The fact that surgeons have ties with certain manufacturers has to come out, too. I notice the device isn't working properly yet. The commercial interest must be subservient to the patient's interest. That is why the implant manufacturers need to be monitored much better.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u55	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, we are not used to talking to each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u56	What do I owe this honor?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u57	This is my last speech, Minister! [[Applause]] The climate emergency is here. On Sunday, 30 000 or more people will walk in the streets of our country's capital, and yesterday, the European Commission decided on a strategy to try to ensure that by 2050 we have a fully CO2-neutral economy. It is a step; it is undeniable. But this is not enough because the IPCC report tells us that if we do not act now to drastically reduce greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, we will not be able to achieve the maximum 1.5° increase in average global temperature. Only by reducing greenhouse gases in the short term can we make progress on this issue. At the initiative of the Austrian Presidency, which is not an environmentalist, some 15 European states have decided to increase the ambitions of the European Union. Among these countries is not Belgium! Why? Why has Belgium not decided to join this 15 countries? Where are the investments needed in SNCB to achieve these objectives? Where are the investments in energy savings? Where are the aids to be granted to the most disadvantaged people so that they can get rid of oil and become independent of this energy? Today, government policies, for example in the area of company cars, instead finance CO2 emissions. Minister, this is probably the one and last time we can reverse the trend, we can change the deal. It's up to our generation to act. When are you going to put Belgium on the road to the energy transition, on the road to the ecological transition?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u58	Mr President, Minister, on Sunday tens of thousands of people are expected in Brussels for perhaps one of the greatest climate demonstrations in recent years in Belgium. There will be many of us, and that is what I am calling for again today. We feel a lot of anger in the population. Seventy civil society organisations will participate in the demonstration. We argue under the slogan claim the climate, let's fight for the climate, fight for another climate policy. People don't want to hear words anymore, they want to see deeds. Three years ago, major agreements were signed at the Paris climate summit, but what is actually happening on the ground? After all, scientists are very critical about this. For example, the IPCC climate panel clearly states that the 1.5 degree standard should not be exceeded, that greenhouse gas emissions should fall by 50% by 2030 and by 100 % by 2050. The graphs from the IPCC, which lie before me, clearly show that the continuation of the current policy will bring us far beyond that 1.5 degrees. And that's a big problem. Madam Secretary, what will you do in this area over the next few weeks and months? You are now pursuing a culpability policy whereby individuals are considered responsible instead of companies for what goes wrong. This cannot be done, since 100 multinationals together account for 70% of greenhouse gas emissions. That is a big problem! And is the solution to imposing an increased diesel contribution on the people? The carbon taxes affect only the weakest of our societies. Environmental policy and social policy must be conducted together, that is what this is about. That is why we will be showing thousands of people over the next few weeks, especially next Sunday. Madam Minister, what will Belgium, together with the European countries, do to reduce greenhouse gases by 50% by 2030 and by 100% by 2050? I'm curious to hear your answer. Thousands of people in Belgium do not believe in your policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every time we approach the opening of a COP, there are many statements. At the outset of your question, there was the Austrian Presidency's proposal to sign an ambitious declaration, but on which, even with careful reading, I have not seen any increase or demand, as one might imagine, as was the case, for example, in the declarations of the Netherlands, which wanted to make an effort of less than 49% of greenhouse gas emissions. This does not mean that the Austrian Presidency is not ambitious or that it wants to go beyond the European framework in which it works. Each time, Belgium and the other European countries work within a European framework. Every morning, at the COP - I am going to participate for the fourth time - we have European coordination to deliver a united message from the European Union, in the context of multilateral negotiations. This time, the aim is to raise the commitments of all the countries that are parties to the agreement, including all the countries of the European Union. You also know that we have an energy pact next to which, at the end of this year, we have to draft a draft of our national energy-climate plan, in which the trajectories of renewable energy production and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions are precisely in place. It is on this basis that we will be planning towards 2030 after the Commission, next year, has made its recommendations, so that our document will become a final document and it will be our road map. This is what we are going to do: continue to follow the path of our inter-federal energy pact with the Regions, in conjunction with the PNEC, in order to make the ambitious investments we want to make in order to achieve the equally ambitious targets of reducing greenhouse gas emissions that will set us on the road towards 2050. Even if the PNEC only runs until 2030, our energy pact is already opening up prospects until 2050.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u60	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. We are the last generation that can eventually reverse the trend. This requires strong action. Participating in the COP is already good. Making commitments on reducing greenhouse gas emissions is good too. But we note three years after the Paris conference that none of the States, however parties to the Paris Agreement, really took matters into their own hands. What we need today is strong action, for example an ambitious plan on public transport, which would allow our capital and other cities in Belgium to be de-engorged. We can imagine that the transport sector, as an example, can drastically contribute to this reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. That is what the citizens told us last October in the communal elections. This green wave tells us that, now, we're acting and taking care of things. We are ready, each in our voluntary, local, political and industrial sector, to move forward. That's the choice I made, becoming a Climate Alderman at the City of Brussels. It is the sense of commitment that should be that of all those who are active in Belgian society and not only in politics: to think that everyone can contribute to this issue, the only one on which humanity can agree, save the climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, this morning I received a letter from Mr Hellings announcing that he will leave our Parliament tomorrow. On behalf of all of you, I would like to thank Mr. Hellings. Mr Hellings, during the time you were here, you were a noted and remarkable Member of Parliament. Your departure is a loss to us. We naturally wish you every success with the new responsibility you will take on in la belle ville de Bruxelles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u62	Mr President, Minister, I will not leave because I am not finished. Madam Minister, it is important to know that no Member State in Europe has achieved its objectives. You can also see the problem we are facing. The scientific committees clearly state that there is emergency. However, you are simply replying that the figures have not yet been reached. The problem is not the laws of nature but the laws of the market. You do not dare to intervene in the market, you do not dare to act against the billions of gigatons of carbon that are still being pumped into the air. However, it can't go on like this. The central question that will be asked at the demonstration on Sunday is how we can go against the market, to ensure that less plastic ends up in the sea, that there is clean air and that there is good energy? Madam Secretary, if you do not act today, we will end up in the abyss. That's the problem. Nevertheless, you answer without delay that you will see and that you will wait. You are talking about the COP24, the COP25, the COP26. When are we going to stop doing that? How do you explain that the Paris agreements have not been applied? Isn't that a problem for you? Do you think your committee, the COP24, will solve everything? You sign agreements, but they are not applied. That's what this is about. And so thousands of demonstrators will be on the streets to oblige you to apply the agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u63	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a survey of the satisfaction of SNCB revealed two important issues. First of all, the traveller is very satisfied with the staff at the base, with people who, very often in difficult circumstances, are still very customer-friendly. I would like to thank and congratulate them on this. A second important fact is the general dissatisfaction with SNCB as a company. This dissatisfaction is, of course, due to the disastrous punctuality figures. This is not just about a feeling with the traveller. Even the official figures of SNCB, in which a train which arrived 15 minutes late in Brussels-Central, but only five minutes late in reaching its terminal, is still regarded as punctual and in which abolished trains are not even counted, indicate that the punctuality is abominable. According to SNCB, this is all the fault of others. It is the fault of the runners, it is the fault of the vandals, it is the fault of Infrabel, it is later the fault of the sossen, as if there were no trackers and no vandals abroad. Mr Minister, SNCB is still acting too much today as a ministry rather than a company aiming at customer friendliness. SNCB is still too much of a Mexican army with too many generals today, rather than an organisation that has to work every day in a competitive world to gain the confidence and hearts of travellers. It is therefore high time for competition on the railways. SNCB must be challenged with its competitors. SNCB must be challenged and forced so that it can become a customer-friendly business, which is committed to its passengers every day. Minister, when will you allow other companies on our trail? What will you do to ensure that SNCB adapts and survives in a competitive situation? What will you do to ensure that SNCB becomes a correct, customer-friendly and punctual company?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u64	Mr Minister, my predecessor has just said that the SNCB customer is dissatisfied. This has become painfully clear last week as a result of the annually published satisfaction survey, which unfortunately has been reduced to a discontent survey. More than 60% of our travellers say they are dissatisfied with punctuality. That's a big failure. For my group, the bottom line has been reached. The traveller expects a strong response. The traveller expects value for money, Minister. Unfortunately, following the publication of the discontent survey last week, we also saw a sad spectacle. I'd call it a round of blackbirds. It was the fault of Infrabel, of SNCB, of politics or of third parties. They just look at each other, but they do too little about it. We must find a solution. Something has to change. It is therefore important that the day before yesterday we in the Infrastructure Committee approved a change to the railway code which would allow the liberalisation of passenger transport by rail. This moved an important stone. Liberalisation will be possible by the end of 2020. Mr Dedecker, if anyone can claim to have fought for liberalisation, that is my group, the Liberals. SNCB will have to prove by the end of 2020 that it can participate in a competitive market and maintain it in that competitive market. What's it gonna take? There is still a great deal of work to be done, not only with the railway company, but also with you and your cabinet, Minister. Where's the shoe wringing? At present, the framework within which work can be done has still not been updated. SNCB and Infrabel still have to rely on management contracts of 2008, which actually ran until 2012. CEO Dutordoir said in the press that it is time that politics finally made clear what is expected of SNCB. She is right, Minister. When will the new framework for SNCB and Infrabel finally be created? When will you give them the tools to compete?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u65	Minister, we rail users are tired of it! And it is not only I who say it, minister, it is this satisfaction survey, the results of which are in sharp decline on many of the criteria. There is only one point on which everyone is happy: the work done by the railway workers. Their work is recognised and they are supported by rail users, by the public. That's it! The quality of their work is recognized, a quality that must be difficult to maintain today in the face of a government that continues to attack their rights. But let's go back to the results of this investigation. Whether in terms of punctuality, information to travellers, cleanliness, comfort or price, the satisfaction of users is deteriorating! Is that a surprise? No, of course not! In this climate of austerity policy, where as much as €3 billion in savings has been imposed on SNCB, it is of course no surprise that such a result has been achieved. The balance sheet of your government, Minister, is therefore this growing dissatisfaction of travellers, a chronic disinvestment in SNCB, a RER which is finished in Flanders but whose work has been interrupted for three years in Wallonia, increases in journey times, increases in delays, etc. Minister, today fuel costs too much. As for the train, people will soon have to pay for it! What alternative do you propose to us? Maybe the electric bike! But again, on this point, there is a risk of difficulties, given the way in which you manage the nuclear power plant file. Minister, what lessons do you learn from this investigation? How will you raise the bar? It's high time. Minister, are you finally going to invest in rail and our utilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u66	Colleagues, since I came to the responsibilities, my goal is that the client be at the centre of the thinking for SNCB and Infrabel and that all investments stick to this concept. This requires a service that meets the expectations of customers, through more efficient companies. From the point of view of travellers' expectations, my three priorities have been clear from the outset. I have outlined them in my policy note. I repeat: from veiligheid, from stiptheid to correct information in realtime. I must regret that companies are not achieving the expected results in terms of punctuality and real-time communication. As a result, customer satisfaction is effectively and strongly deteriorating. This dissatisfaction is not surprising since it is historically linked to punctuality, which continues to decline. I had already reacted in November 2017 to an unsatisfactory level of punctuality. I brought the two CEOs together and asked them to analyze the causes. An action plan was then drawn up, but the results remain poor. That is why I have now taken an initiative to bring together the two boards of directors and the two management committees and remind them once again of their core tasks and tasks. When analyzing passenger dissatisfaction figures, it seems more than necessary to remind those who have in their hands the governance of these companies of these priorities. Given that the government is empowering them, both financially and in terms of self-management, they must assume their responsibilities. I will therefore ask management and management bodies to move from a logic of excuses and identification of external causes to a logic of effective solutions to internal problems. Let me turn to the debate on the savings of 1.2 billion over five years. Yes, some are trying to revive it as part of the current topic on traveller satisfaction, but it is an instrumentalization. In 2017, SNCB and Infrabel were beneficiaries, and this is the first time since the unitary SNCB was split. Companies that lack resources rarely make profits. From the investment point of view, this government has decided to provide substantial resources, amounting to EUR 5.3 billion, to prepare for the future, including the purchase of modern equipment, namely 445 M7 for an amount of EUR 1.3 billion. I must say that it is better to buy rolling stock than to build stations, which will never advance a train nor will it arrive on time. We will proceed with the construction and modernization of workshops in Arlon, Hasselt and Kinkempois. We are going to expand capacity, particularly to complete the RSP with the federal government's virtuous billion. This week, in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities approved the amendment of the Rail Code which regulates the transposition of the European rules on the liberalisation of rail. The assignment that follows from that is clear. SNCB must continue the modernisation process so that it can meet the challenge in a healthy and strong way by 2023 and continue to provide public services. Several steps have been taken at the request of the government. I will mention an increase in productivity of 4% – which is achieved – the increase in the supply of trains by more than 5% and the increase in the number of passengers by more than 3.5% in 2017, which continues in 2018. This has led to an improvement in financial performance. In addition, SNCB is the first public undertaking in Belgium to organise social elections. There is also guaranteed service. It should be stressed that all these changes have been made in a serene social climate. But SNCB is primarily personally responsible for its position in the face of liberalisation. The more it achieves a high level of performance, the more likely it will be to retain the concession for the entire public service. In the opposite case, in 2023, things will, of course, be more complicated. We are working towards this goal of improving customer service. I draw your attention here to the fact that, in terms of punctuality, three elements must be taken into account: the facts of third parties, infrastructure and operation. What will be at stake in 2023 is the only liberalisation of the operator. Therefore, there will still remain the 75 per cent of the causes of the deterioration of punctuality on which, regardless of the model chosen in 2023, we will have to continue to act with the infrastructure manager, taking into account the external facts to which we are subjected, as is the case in other areas. Indeed, we are confronted with the social facts that are necessary for all public authorities, be they roads, motorways and all public enterprises. We must also address these societal acts, including through the Administrative Fines Act. There are many other elements that could be discussed, but that is beyond the scope of your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for the overview of the investments we make in that company. When I hear Mrs Grovonius, it's simple: even more tax money! That is always the answer from the left: even more tax money. If there is one thing that SNCB does not lack, as you have illustrated once again with your beautiful list of investments, then it is taxpayers' money. When we look at the performance of other operators in Europe, we see that they often achieve much higher performance with much less tax money. Just look at the study of the Boston Consulting Group that is released every year. We'll learn other things from that. We also learn that in every other European country where there are several railway operators, performance is higher and customer satisfaction is also higher. All the more reason to say that we have to go in that direction. Enough taxpayers have had enough. They say today: I want my money back. It can be effectively different. We proved that with the goods department. You know B-Cargo. For years, this was a heavy loss-making company. Today it is turned to Lineas, a performant, profitable company, with a great satisfaction score and even a great attraction on staff. The staff is also satisfied there. Competition works and leads to more performance and satisfaction among customers. That is why I am asking for further implementation of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You stressed once again that a number of very important steps were taken. You mentioned the reform of the company, the social elections that were introduced, the guaranteed services that were made possible. I must thank you for remaining very passionate as a minister, as well as your cabinet, to continue with this company. It is not easy, but I wish you a great deal of courage to ensure that there is improvement. For the Open Vld group it is clear: we expect punctual, comfortable trains at an acceptable price. We expect the train to be a real alternative to daily traffic jams. We also expect to get value for money for the large amount of public money that goes to the company. This must be included in the management contracts that I have already mentioned. These management contracts would rather be there today than tomorrow: they are already six years late. I would ask you, on behalf of my group, to give Mrs Dutordoir the opportunity to realise the wonderful ambitions she has and has expressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the last question put by Mr Lahaye-Battheu in this hemisphere, because she too will very soon assume a responsibility at another level. Mr Lahaye-Battheu, you have been in the Chamber since 2003. I think I can speak on behalf of all my colleagues. You stand for file knowledge, solidity, drive, thoroughness and, in spite of what is often said, you also stand for hard work within politics. If you leave this hemisphere, we will lose experience, but who would we be to stop you from taking up your responsibility in beautiful West Flanders as a perseverant delegate for the next six years? We wish you every success. [[Applause on all the benches]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u70	Minister, thank you for your answers. You have set yourself three goals. It must be noted that we are faced with so many failures. You want to talk about the numbers. All right. Let's talk about it! We are witnessing three billion savings for eight hundred kilometres in fewer rural lines, while thirty-three windows are abolished and after the elections the number of railway workers will decrease by six thousand units. That is the reality of the figures, minister. You've got a few months left. What I have heard today is zero lines of action and improvements. Worse still, you are rejecting responsibility for your austerity policy on public companies and those who have to take on your savings. This is a scandal, Minister! Such political cowardice is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u71	Mr President, Secretary of State, illegal migration is indeed a problem on many fronts. It ensures that those who have the right to protection sometimes have to wait too long and cause problems of public order and security. Partly because of this a humanitarian disaster came about. You are right, Mr Secretary of State, to ensure that those who are illegally on our territory are removed from the territory, if they can, voluntarily, if they have to. I know this is not easy, but you know that we support your policy. More importantly, perhaps, the cause of the problem is also addressed. In other words, track down the human trafficking routes and, to put it mildly, actually roll them up. Tackling smugglers should indeed be a priority of our policies. In practice, we find that, unfortunately, this is not always the case. Far too many cases remain without effect and our criminal justice policy needs to be strengthened. We are therefore very pleased that the Minister for Justice announced in his policy paper that he would strengthen that criminal policy. Another striking fact is that the number of files remains relatively low. Last year 30 judicial investigations were launched, while 38 000 illegal immigrants were ordered to leave the territory. I ask myself questions about that. It is reported that we are now faced with a network from Palestine. It is rightly said that this should stop, and I think it is important to work together to tackle this problem. We have been seeing the numbers of people from Palestine rise exponentially for two years. Did your services report this problem of human trafficking to the Justice Department? Has there been a judicial investigation? If you think you can expose certain networks, this will be systematically reported on the basis of Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Every official has to report this to the Justice Department, but is that also happening in the facts?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u72	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, that is a very justified point. It is very important that our DVZ officials also pass on the signals of human trafficking they receive to the public. We do that too, there is cooperation between the DVZ and the Justice Department. However, the results are not always as expected. In fact, there are often convictions in absentia because those involved are, for example, back in the Middle East. That's gonna cause a lot of trouble. In recent months, we have seen an increase in asylum migration to our country. It rose from just over 1 700 asylum seekers in July to over 2 700 in October. This is worrying because this increase is not a European phenomenon. Only in the Netherlands and with us there is a significant increase. This means that our country is deliberately endorsed by human smuggling gangs. Criminal networks commend our country as an asylum destination, for heavy payment. We notice that there has been a separate smuggling route of Palestinians, young men from Gaza. In recent years, only a few dozen Palestinians arrived a year. This year we are already at over 1 800. That too is an increase that does not occur anywhere else in Europe. This increase is not without danger because it can lead to an increased risk to society. So let me be clear: I will not allow our country to remain the target of this smuggling route. There is no support for a new asylum crisis among the population. Just as in 2015, when I introduced a quota, I take responsibility now too. Only 50 asylum applications per day are still registered, with absolute priority being given to vulnerable persons and families. They're getting shelter, too. At the same time, the handling of requests for asylum from Palestinian young men was launched in order to enable the CGVS to re-evaluate the policy and align it with that of our neighbouring countries. That's a real problem. We are not at the European level. I believe that if a lot of people come to Belgium, the CGVS should look at that. Mr Van Den Bulck has also announced this, and I believe that this is a good thing and that it is also urgent. At the same time, transit visas will be introduced from the beginning of December to make people making a switch in Zaventem subject to visa requirements. After all, we often notice that people fly from Egypt to South America, for example, to make an intermediate landing in Zaventem, where asylum is sought. Of course, that cannot be the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u73	Mr Secretary of State, I am convinced that we share the same view of tackling illegal migration. It is a good thing that you are trying proactively to discourage. I heard you say your services are working with the Justice Department. That is also what I read in your annual reports. However, I would like to ask you to check whether there is any mention of it on the basis of Article 29. You are talking about Palestine, where we go from 10 to 2 000 files in two years. That's not normal and it needs to be checked. Where appropriate, a judicial inquiry should be carried out. One has to work together and understand one another. There must also be attention for those who are wrongly in line today; they do not deserve to be sent away and they must be taken care of. If we can tackle the smugglers of human beings, we can take care of those who really deserve it. That's how we're gonna get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u74	Minister, there is a persistent debate on purchasing power. We have already heard a number of statements on this subject. In the newspapers, the ABVV says that there would be no room for storage in the coming years, and the International Labour Organisation even claims that real wages would have fallen by 0.3%. Furthermore, on the left side of the tax shift, it is repeatedly claimed that wages have risen, but that prices have increased even more and that workers are worse off than before. For those with the lowest incomes, pensions and benefits, the situation is even worse, because before that there was no tax shift and there is an increasing lifespan. The FGTB requires that gross minimum wages be increased to EUR 2 300. This would mean an increase in labour costs of EUR 47 for the lowest wages. A 32-hour working week with wage retention means an increase in wage costs of 20%. This morning we read that purchasing power has indeed increased considerably, but that the additional purchasing power is unevenly distributed and that the State also costs many billions. With our policies, we have focused on getting more people into work, so it is logical that the benefits for them are greater. The best way to get someone out of poverty is to give him or her a job. The evidence that this policy works is the reduction, for many years, from month to month, of the unemployment rates of Flanders. Those are incredible statistics. However, we must not lose sight of the lowest incomes, pensions and benefits. What about the increase in purchasing power, Minister? There's a lot of different numbers circulating. Which one should we actually believe? Are all the inhabitants of our country moving forward or are there indeed groups of people left behind who would now have less purchasing power than before the government took office? What is the budgetary impact of all measures taken and what would be the impact of the FGTB's proposals?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u75	Mr Klaps, I have indeed taken note of the debate on the evolution of purchasing power. Let's objectify that immediately. There is a very nice economic definition to trace that, namely the real disposable income. This is the income adjusted for price increases and therefore also for a number of tax increases, which, of course, only translate into the consumer if they become price increases. That's obvious. That is a very clear, correct and inflation-neutral measurement of the disposable income of families. The figures from the Planning Bureau are the following. For 2017 +1 %, for 2018 +1.8 % and for 2019 +1.9 %. I am adding the figures of the National Bank, which are very similar. This morning, a study by Leuven economists shows that purchasing power in the government has increased by 5.2 %. In fact, I see certain tables circulating, which should show that the two lowest decimals, i.e. the lowest income-takers, are getting worse because of the tax shift. However, when I look closely at that table, I see that it contains the whole of the measures taken to finance the tax shift, but not the measures taken to increase the minima. Pensions, living wages and other minimums have increased over the past few years and, if you look at reality, have risen by 12% to 16%. The whole story that the tax shift and the accompanying measures affect purchasing power is crazy to run loose and is fundamentally wrong for the lowest income puller to the highest. That story doesn't make any sense at all. Some will argue that according to the Leuven study the cost price is too high. There too, my answer is very simple. For those who want to read it, the economists in the Leuven study clearly admit that they have not taken into account payback effects, so they themselves say that they have not looked at cost in detail. As far as I am concerned, end of story, purchasing power has increased for everyone and its budgetary cost has been largely contained, not least because of the very strong increase in employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u76	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now clear that the government's policy is improving all our compatriots. Everyone's purchasing power is improving. There are more people at work, which is still the best way out of poverty. Despite these measures, our budget deficit is falling and we are reducing debt. The opposition wants you to believe that purchasing power is not increasing, but taxation is, and that the budget is not getting under control. Those claims are clearly incorrect. Again, purchasing power is increasing, the tax burden is falling, and year after year we are moving towards a balanced budget. Anyone who believes that we are not moving fast enough towards budgetary balance must also have the courage to say what he or she really means. It is quite simple to close the gap in the budget completely, namely, as it used to be, by taking the money out of people's pockets again with extra taxes. Such a policy does not apply to our government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u77	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, you have noticed that Mr Hedebouw and Mr Van Hees have submitted a document which has been distributed. It is a procedural motion which reads as follows: 'In the context of Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure, the Signatories shall request the floor on the proceedings of the Chamber. The question concerns changing the agenda of the plenary to organise a topical debate on the retirement allowances for Members of Parliament." Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Hedebouw himself points out in his own motion of order, that seems to me to be a proposal for a change of agenda. Mr Hedebouw, the proposal is admissible, but you are mistaken in that it is not Article 54 but Article 17. A change in the agenda during the sitting itself must, of course, first be supported by 50 members of the Chamber. Before we vote on the proposal and then vote on it, the question is whether 50 Members of the Chamber support the change in the agenda. Mr Hedebouw, you have two minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a motion to hold an urgent debate on retirement allowances. That lives with the people and I can understand that. We hear figures that some colleagues are going to leave here with EUR 150 000, with EUR 300 000, with EUR 480 000. It can't go on like this. The political world cannot continue with these two speeds. We have already seen it with pensions. Do you remember? You had set the age at 67 years, while you were allowed to leave at 52 or 55 years. That cannot continue. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as this starter premium is concerned, we cannot continue this way: 400 000 euros to leave, that is not the case! In addition, you already have a monthly salary of 6,000 euros. We can't impose index jumps on people, we can't ask them to work up to 67, and we can't apply these rules to ourselves. The question today is very simple, it is that a topical debate is taking place on the issue of starting premiums. For the PTB, this is not going to happen; we cannot go on like this. Let us give parliamentarians a status equivalent to ordinary workers, with a right to unemployment after work, but not with premiums of 400,000 euros. It can't go on like this! We cannot demand efforts from the people without applying them to ourselves. And that, especially when I hear the reasons put forward. What were the arguments put forward by Mr Vandeurzen, who receives a premium of EUR 480 000? He has become 60 years old and wants to organize the step towards a new professional career in a decent way. Is that an argument, ladies and gentlemen? How many hundreds of thousands of people would like to organize their careers in a decent way? However, they do not receive EUR 400 000. Colleagues, we need to be a little decent. We can hold a debate and decide to simply stop the system of departure premiums. That is why the PTB proposes to conduct this debate today, 29 November. You can vote with us to put this item on the agenda and, in five minutes, we can reform this system to give Members a completely normal status, like that of all workers, and not a privileged status. I hope you will vote in favour of our proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u80	Thank you, Mr. Hedebouw. As I explained, we must first see if there are 50 members of the House who support the request to change the agenda. May I ask that we sit and do that and get up? Who supports the proposal to amend the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u81	We're gonna have to deal with that some other time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u82	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u83	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u84	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister in the Committee on the Economy pointed out, the government has taken measures to the tune of EUR 508 million per year for the self-employed. The main objective is to have an attractive social status. This bill fits into this framework by providing for a contribution exemption for the quarter in which the person concerned obtains a retirement pension as a self-employed person, after reaching the statutory pension age, provided of course that he terminates his professional activity in the course of the quarter. This text allows for and takes into account recent developments in the pension system for self-employed workers. Most of all, he's putting an end to a difference in treatment. Self-employed persons will no longer be punished financially if they wish to continue working beyond the statutory pension age. For our group, improving the status of the self-employed is a priority, which is why we invite you to vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u85	Mr President, as Mrs Galant has said, this measure is part of all the social law catch-up measures in favour of the self-employed. As you know, in terms of new measures, at an annual rate for 2018, we are at 508 million euros to improve the status of the self-employed and reduce their contributions. This measure is part of this package. It has a particular characteristic, beyond the need for fairness between the self-employed who wants to stop working at age 65 and the self-employed who wants to continue working longer. Indeed, it ensures that the rules in force are not a hindrance for those, many, who want to work beyond the statutory retirement age. With this vote, we will be able to correct the situation. I want to thank all parliamentarians – whether they are the majority or the opposition – for the debates we have had on this subject in committee, but above all for the unanimous vote in favour of this measure put forward by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u86	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u87	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3357/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3357/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u88	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u89	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u90	Mr President, I am referring to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u91	Mr President, the Ecolo-Groen Group will vote in favour of this law reform. It seems to us positive, since it will facilitate the work of the blood banks on the one hand and expand the number of potential donors on the other. This also allows Belgium to catch up with what other European countries and the European Union are proposing. We take this opportunity to recall our request to amend the criteria established by law in order to be admitted as a donor. The law now discriminates against homosexual men. We cannot accept it. It is no longer necessary to stigmatize a community on the basis of identity, but rather to refer to risky behaviours to determine donors. There are examples in Europe. I heard the minister explain in committee that blood donation is permitted under certain conditions and that an assessment is required before further changes to the law are made. European countries have already made progress. In England, we went down to a period of 3 months instead of 12. It is therefore the practices that are targeted rather than a specific group of people. We should draw inspiration from what our neighbours are doing to change legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u92	Mr President, I would like to thank all the colleagues in the Health Committee, with whom we have had an excellent and constructive debate. These provisions are extremely important since there is a shortage of blood donors in Belgium. This new approach will solve part of the problem. If we assume that the law will be implemented now, within the next five years, we will allow 8,000 donors to continue to give blood. These guidelines have already been put in place in other countries and have proved their worth. Once it is not customary, we have worked extremely constructively.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u93	Mr President, I am very pleased that my colleague Ecolo has joined the position that I have been defending for a long time, as the Minister of Health knows. Indeed, with regard to the blood donation of homosexuals, I was already intervening in 2008 with Minister Onkelinx. I am pleased with the first step that has been taken, and I congratulate Mrs De Block on this. To the question I asked her, she replied that she would take stock of this first stage next year. If I listened, this would have been a long time ago, but I can understand that the minister must also take into account – as was the case with Mrs Onkelinx – the opinions of the Higher Council of Health, which are very conservative. I think we are right, you and I, to continue to work for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u94	Mr President, I would like to thank the members of the committee for discussing this technical draft law on blood and blood derivatives of human origin. There are two important things people need to know at home. Firstly, the age limit of 70 years is lifted. If you were a donor before, you will be able to continue to give blood. This will allow us to keep 8 000 donors giving blood that we really need. I understand Mrs Schlitz. As I said in committee at the time, when Mr Flahaux interviewed Mrs Onkelinx, the opinion of the Higher Council was quite negative. Moreover, the Red Cross, which was responsible for the safety of blood, was also negative at that time. We have evolved, especially through scientific research. We took a step forward, as Mr. Flahaux says. Of course I am open to further relaxation, with a shorter withdrawal time for men who give blood and have sex with men, but it must always be safe. Whoever gets the blood must be sure this blood isn't contaminated and safe. That is the concern of the High Health Council, but also of the Red Cross and, of course, of the Minister for Health. If it is safe, we will do what we can to ease this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u95	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u96	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3346/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3346/3) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law amending the Law of 5 July 1994 on blood and blood derivatives of human origin and the Law on compulsory medical care and benefits coordinated on 14 July 1994." The title has been amended by the commission into "Bill amending the Law of 5 July 1994 on blood and blood derivatives of human origin and the Law on Compulsory Health Care Insurance and Co-ordinated Allowances on 14 July 1994". The draft law has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u97	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u98	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u99	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u100	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3321/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3221/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u101	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u102	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u103	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u104	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3322/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3322/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u105	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u106	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Miller, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u107	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3323/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3323/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u108	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u109	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u110	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u111	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3324/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3324/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u112	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u113	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Grovonius, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u114	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3344/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3344/3) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u115	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u116	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Hendrik Vuye, Servais Verherstraeten, Patrick Dewael, Peter De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u117	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Delpérée, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to make four comments on the bill under discussion. First, the law we are examining today is an integral bicameral law. That means that the vote that will take place in a few moments will not close the discussion. The text will have to go to the Senate and the Senate, on an equal footing with us, will have to decide whether it shares our view that the Parliamentary Committee on Legislative Monitoring should disappear. For him, it will be a question of whether he gets hara-kiri. It's not our responsibility. Secondly, I find that the making of the law has been chaotic. At the beginning, it was a matter of changing the membership of the Committee. At the end of the process, it was a question of removing it. I wondered in committee whether the right of amendment was being used properly in the circumstances. It was not a question of correcting a text but of changing it completely. In my view, the technique used was not adequate. A new text should have been written. It would have been necessary to vote on this autonomous text and then to amend our Rules of Procedure. Thirdly, there is a draft regulation that has already been drafted, of course without the advice of the legislative section of the Council of State, without the possibility of checking legality and constitutionality. I cannot help but wonder whether this is progress in the construction of the rule of law and in the development of a parliamentary system. We are delegalizing an important issue which is not merely a matter of internal organisation of Parliament but a fundamental issue of general interest. Fourth and final point: the idea of legislative follow-up is obviously a very good idea, but if the material, human and financial means to carry out this operation are lacking, I fear that we will not do anything useless and that the Committee will not be more active – at least we can say – than it has been in recent years. For all these reasons, the cdH group will abstain at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u119	Mr President, I would like to justify the failure of the Ecolo-Groen Group on this subject, by saying three things, to be even shorter than Mr Delperée, who said four things. First of all, the sting of this proposal is that it comes from Mr Vuye, a Namibian constitutionalist who is quite remarkable. At the time, he was still a group leader. It was a superior quality and it is always necessary to recognize the superior qualities. Plus, it's better paid. The reality of the first point is that Mr Vuye originally wanted, by law, to amend the Parliamentary Committee on Legislative Monitoring. The Council of State then pointed out that, contrary to what it stated in its text, the Constitution does not say that all bicameral matters are in the House. There are a few left in the Senate. We may not like the Senate. That's right. But the facts are stronger than the dreams of Mr Vuye and elsewhere, in his own proposal, he said that his text was a subject of article 77 and not of article 74. I don't know if I have to translate all this, not for Mr Vuye, but for others. He himself acknowledged, as Mr Delperée said, that the text that we are going to adopt today is going to do the same thing as before. He will therefore go to see our friends in the Senate, some of whom say they are very bored. In any case, this will give them work. Mr. Speaker of the House, perhaps I invite you to extend your best greetings to your colleague. Perhaps pralines will please you? Secondly, Mr Vuye, having left, if I may say so, the majority has replaced his whole text with an amendment. It has replaced the entire text and today proposes to repeal the law establishing the Parliamentary Committee for Legislative Monitoring, on the pretext that an opinion of the Council of State says that the House alone cannot decide for the Senate. That's the least I can do. It therefore proposes to make a regulatory amendment. Mr. De Roover – he is now the group leader, Mr. Vuye – has therefore tabled a text bearing 3130, which is a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure. Third element. Why don't we vote for the text before us? Because we don't see the point of abrogating the law. On the other hand, as soon as the Committee on the Rules of Procedure deals with Mr Peter De Roover's text, we will be able to examine the text. Ladies and gentlemen, the quality of the legislation is a very important thing. And during this legislature, the Parliamentary Committee on Legislative Monitoring met very little. It is even a litot here, since in reality it has never met. All those who are going to approve Mr Peter De Roover's text today and who are going to claim their interest in the legislative follow-up have so far not demonstrated this. I therefore hope that tomorrow we will have the capacity, through the Rules of Procedure, to establish a body that will have a real interest in the quality of legal texts. This seems to be a matter of academic debate, but for people it is important to have quality texts. In any event, I wanted to draw attention to the fact that a constitutional judge, Pierre Nihoul, to quote it – it is quite rare on the part of a constitutional judge – recently said that there was a real concern in our country about the legibility of legislation. Beyond the text of today and tomorrow, it would therefore be desirable for us to have, from the House which brings together most of the pieces of legislation, a genuine parliamentary committee responsible for the legislative follow-up which is really working. That is the meaning of this intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u120	Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the point of monocameral versus bicameral. As Mr Cheron said, the original proposal was indeed monocameral. By the way, I still think this is the right approach. Why? Article 77 states that bicamerals are "the laws relating to the organisation of the Senate and the status of the senator." This has nothing to do with the Senator's statute, and everyone will agree on that. But what about the laws relating to the organization of the Senate? I was referred to as a reference person at the Council of State and I regret that the Council of State has not contacted me. The Council of State, after all, quotes the only passage from the parliamentary preparation, which I am aware of, but which is not at all in line with what the Council of State is deriving from it. What does it say about the organisation of the Senate? It says: "His laws relating to the organisation of the Senate: legislation relating to the designation of the state senators and the co-opted senators," everyone will agree on that. But then there is a second example in this short passage: 'The parliamentary conciliation committee'. Indeed, it relates to the organisation of the Senate, because according to the Constitution, that parliamentary consultative committee can take decisions that are binding on the Senate, namely just about whether matters are monocameral or bicameral. That and nothing else is stated in the parliamentary preparation of Constitutional Rule 77. From this the Council of State distracts, without any justification, in one sentence - roma locuta, but roma did not explain anything - that it is bicameral. Well, it's not. This is not the case because the legislation relating to legislative review has nothing to do with the status of the senators and has nothing to do with the organisation of the Senate. Contrary to the parliamentary consultative committee, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights cannot take decisions which have any impact on the senate's exercise of powers. That is not the case. The purest proof is actually provided here, because it is now being regulated in the Rules of Procedure. There is clearly nothing in the Rules of Procedure that would relate to the organisation of the Senate. There is a very big difference between the parliamentary conciliation committee, which is quoted in the parliamentary preparation at the time of Article 77, and the Committee responsible for the legislative review: one has an impact on the organisation of the Senate and on the exercise of the powers of the Senate and the other does not. If the Committee in charge of the legislative review proposes that legislation be amended, the proposed amendment will have to follow the course defined by the Constitution, i.e. either Article 74 or Article 77 or Article 78. The rights of the Senate are necessarily fully respected. So I very much regret that my successor, as Mr Cheron called him, is making this a bicameral matter. The same is happening here as in 1995, namely that the Council of State interprets the powers of the Senate very widely. This has been done since 1995 with the regulation contained in the 1993 state reform and it is happening again here. So it's a monocameral matter, not a bicameral. In the meantime, however, we are already in plenary. I am pleased that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which I do not understand at all what the Senate was doing in this area, is being effectively abolished.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u121	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u122	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1537/8) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1537/8) The title was changed by the committee to "draft law repealing the law of 25 April 2007 establishing a Parliamentary Committee responsible for the legislative review." The title has been amended by the committee to "proposal for a law repealing the Act of 25 April 2007 establishing a Parliamentary Committee for Legislative Monitoring". The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u123	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u124	The Government requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law establishing the military quota for 2019, No. 3377/1. The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the draft law establishing the army contingent for 2019, No. 3377/1. We have accepted the custom of first hearing the government's reasons. It's about the army contigent. Every year we ask that this be dealt with as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u125	Mr President, I apologise, I did not immediately get something from Minister Loones, but that may be because he is new. In this case, I ask for urgent treatment for the military quota. I apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u126	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u127	In the last distributed agenda you will find a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committee responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I shall take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the committee responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 November 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Ine Somers cs) on the intervention of compulsory medical care insurance in costs of ambulance transport organized in the context of urgent medical care, No. 3402/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u128	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 November 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law (Ms. Ine Somers et al.) on the intervention of compulsory health care insurance in the cost of ambulance transport organized under the framework of emergency medical aid, No. 3402/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u129	The request for consideration today of the bill (Mrs Sarah Smeyers) amending the law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and removal of foreign nationals, as regards illegal entry and residence, No. 3398/1, shall be repealed by the applicant. The request to take into consideration today the bill (Ms. Sarah Smeyers) amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and removal of aliens, with regard to illegal entry and illegal residence, No. 3398/1, was withdrawn by the author. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u130	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of the proposal No. 3391/1. It is a very urgent matter. In spring, the Director of the Services, the Director of Resources, retires. This must be completed in time. A number of KBs still need to be adjusted. It is very urgent to continue with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u131	It concerns the question of urgency for item 7 from the list of recitals which you have received in the Annex to the agenda. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u132	Mr President, we are asking for the urgency of legislative proposal No. 3402/1 because urgent medical aid is currently being thoroughly reformed. One of the key pillars of this reform is patient tariff security. Until now, it did not exist, so that very high invoices could be received for urgent medical ambulance transport. That will change in the future. An ambulance will cost the patient EUR 60 on a flat-rate basis, which is less than what we are currently paying on average. In order to make this adjustment, we need to remove the intervention of the compulsory medical care insurance for ambulance services organised in the context of urgent medical assistance. That is the intention of the present bill. Because the reform of the financing of urgent ambulance transport starts on 1 January 2019, this is of course urgent. In fact, if the rules governing the intervention of compulsory insurance were not to be amended, there would be legal uncertainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u133	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u134	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3357/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3357/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u135	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3346/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3346/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u136	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3321/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3321/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u137	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3322/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3322/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u138	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 132 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3323/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3323/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u139	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u140	Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3224/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3324/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u141	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3344/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3344/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u142	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u143	Mr President, I am embarrassed because I promised my colleague Benoit Friart to pair with him. However, since the beginning of the vote, it has not been clear. So I confirm that I have paired, abstaining.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u144	Mr. Thiébaut, your gesture is very much appreciated. There's no problem. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 77 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 54 Abstensions Total 133 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be referred as a bill to the Senate. (1537/9) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be sent to the Senate as a bill. (1537/9) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-29-54-plenair-ip257x.u145	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 6 December 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 6 December 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 6 December 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 6 December 2018, at 2.15 p.m.
