ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic993x.u1	Colleagues, as agreed yesterday, we are starting the sitting with a topical debate on the decision to lift the freezing of interest on Libyan bank accounts blocked in Belgium. Five questions have been tabled on this subject. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Mr Maingain says he will be late.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic993x.u2	Mr President, Mr Finance Minister, thank you for accepting this topical debate. I have been asking you for more than a year to try to get clear answers to questions that seem simple to me: why did Belgium not comply with a United Nations resolution, and the European regulation that translated it, ordering the freezing of Libyan funds, including the interest generated by those funds? Who made this decision? To whom was this money paid and what was it used for? Since we only receive information, we must return to the burden. On September 19, you told me in response to one of my last questions that, as early as 2011, your administration had opted for a release of interest. According to a dispatch by the Belga agency on 29 October following a report by RTBF on this issue of the Libyan frozen funds, "the decision to lift the freezing of interest generated by Libyan accounts blocked in Belgium under a UN Security Council resolution dates back to 4 October 2012". The Belga agency states that it holds this information from a government source. The dispatch further states that "on 4 October 2012, the Ministry of Finance – whose portfolio was then entrusted to Steven Vanackere (CD&V) – authorized, by a letter from the Chief Executive Officer of the Treasury, Euroclear Bank to release Libyan funds". You will note that the wording is prudent, even if it points to Mr Vanackere's political responsibility. Minister, can you tell me if your office is the government source that informed the Belga agency? If your firm is not the source of the Belga agency, do you have any idea of the government source for this publication? Was this letter from the Chief Executive Officer of Treasury confidential or public? There's a lot of confidential information in this file. If it was confidential, do you have any idea how this government source accessed it? Moreover, do you confirm that the official decision to thaw the interests of these Libyan funds dates from 4 October 2012? Do you confirm that the decision was served by a letter from the Chief Executive Officer of the Treasury? Can you provide us with a copy of that letter? Was this, if any, a personal initiative of the Chief Executive Officer of the Treasury? If so, was it covered by the then Minister of Finance, Steven Vanackere, or was she responding to a request from him? Was the then Minister of Foreign Affairs, Didier Reynders, involved in this decision? If so, how? Did this decision respond to a specific request for thawing? If so, from which authority (libyan, bank or public) did this request arise? On what legal arguments did the Chief Executive Officer of Treasury use at the time to justify the thawing of interest, while international regulations were quite explicit in this regard, by imposing a freeze on the capital and interest of those funds, as confirmed in the United Nations report last September? Why didn't you answer my previous questions about the date of decision of this thaw and the authority that decided it? Why do we have to wait for a dispatch from the Belga agency from a government source? Why can't this Parliament get full and precise answers to its questions on this complicated issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic993x.u3	Mr President, before I start with the very comprehensive question I have put, I would like to begin with a small lesson for Professor Van Overtveldt and his colleagues in the government. Our Constitution states that Belgium is a parliamentary democracy. This means that the government decides and that Parliament controls. However, in order to be able to control it, Parliament is entitled to information, especially information so pertinent that it is not possible to exercise the right of control without that information. I asked Minister Van Overtveldt four simple questions in March, June and October. The first simple question was who took responsibility for releasing Libyan assets. Was that a minister as we now hear from the press? Was that a decision that applied to the four banks that have funds or were spread over time, for example annually or whenever there was a question of releasing something, each decision of a Belgian politically responsible, minister or administrator-general of the Treasury? This is a first simple question: who is responsible for releasing money? A second simple question was how much of that money left Belgium. After ten to fifteen questions from Members of Parliament, we still do not know that today. It is unworthy of a parliamentary democracy that the government does not answer those obvious questions put by Members of Parliament. I hope to hear today how much money has left Belgium. A third obvious question was where that money had gone. Who got that? After 15 to 20 questions from Members of Parliament, we still do not know that. The final question was what that money was used for by the recipients. That was four obvious questions. Has the government forgotten that we live in a parliamentary democracy if we do not get such information even after 15 to 20 questions from Members of Parliament? Minister, I have prepared a whole series of detailed questions. I won't repeat them, you got them. I can assure you that for every question to which I do not receive an answer, I will address you in the next few weeks. There might be ten of them. If you do not answer ten questions, you will have ten different interpretations on your leg. There's something else that bothers me. I've interviewed you and the Secretary of State, but they're moving the hot potato together. On 2 October, I asked Minister for Foreign Affairs Reynders if there had been any contact between his department and Mr Ali Hassan Mahmoud, President of the LIA. He replied to me: 'Questions will be forwarded by me to the department responsible. It goes without saying that I cannot comment on contacts that other public services or colleagues might have had with representatives of the LIA." That is Reynderstaal to say not to address him, but to ask you the question, Mr Van Overtveldt. Minister, during your term of office, has there been contact with Mr Ali Hassan Mahmoud by yourself, by a representative of your cabinet or by the administrator-general of the Treasury or one of his staff? That's what I'd like to hear from you. I also expect an answer to the 12 other questions that I have given you in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic993x.u4	Mr President, Minister, since March 2018, the PS group has been asking you regularly to try to understand what really happened in this case of Libyan assets freeze. If you don't mind, I'll do a little retroact. In March 2018, we learn, via an information magazine, that Belgium is accused of failing to comply with the UN's decision to freeze the assets of the Libyan regime. Indeed, Belgium has released the interest generated by the frozen accounts. When we know that these frozen funds amount to almost 15 billion, we imagine that interest can be in thousands or even hundreds of thousands of euros. Minister, can you tell us today exactly how much we're talking about? As a reminder, the UN takes this decision in 2011, through a settlement of the freezing of Libyan funds and other financial assets, following the threat of civil war and massacres perpetrated by the current President, Gaddafi. The Regulation clearly sets out what it means by "assets and funds" and makes it clear that "interest, dividends or other income from assets or gains on assets". The Regulation also provides that certain funds and assets may be thawed under certain conditions which appear to be fairly strict: authorization by the United Nations Sanctions Committee, information and authorization by the European Commission, information to other Member States, humanitarian reasons, etc. Belgium therefore decided very quickly to release the interests of Libyan assets. Minister, on what basis does Belgium make this decision? What articles of the regulations are involved? What are the reasons for this? Was it a question of providing medical and humanitarian assistance to Libyan projects? Was it a question of allowing payments due from judicial decisions adopted in the European Union? Who makes this decision? When is this decision made? Is this decision subject to consultation with other European States, with the United Nations Sanctions Committee, with the European Commission? The press refers to a senior official of the Treasury Department. Do you confirm that? If so, is this official based on a note? It is assumed that a note exists and that this official did not make this decision without substantive elements. Can we get that grade? Minister, let's be honest. This official could not take this decision without the supervision of his appropriate minister. Who was the appropriate minister of the Treasury at the time of this decision? Why have the various ministers in charge not decided to appeal to the UN Sanctions Committee to confirm or invalidate the interpretation of this regulation? Have you and your predecessors been following this case over the years and questioning the first decision? In your last reply, you told me that Belgium and other European countries had been supported in their decision to release the interests by the Legal Service of the Council of the European Union at the RELEX Group meeting on 20 October 2011. Mr Minister, can we therefore have this note? What Belgian authority has asked for the opinion of this group of experts? Who makes up this group of experts? Did this note reach us via the Union or through our permanent representation? Which other European countries have freed up their interests? Can you give us the destination of these funds? In 2016, a new European Regulation was adopted on the basis of the UN Resolution. It remains in the same spirit as the previous one but broadens the conditions for thawing assets and funds. Have you looked again at our policy on the almost 15 billion Libyans frozen in the end of this regulation? Minister, when I reread the answers you have given to the various questions, I have the feeling that you are convinced that the choice to release interests may not be indisputable. It seems to me that we are more in the justification a priori than in the demonstration that there was no other possibility. Can you therefore rule out the possibility that this decision was taken a little lightly? Minister, let us be clear! Our country's reputation is committed and the United Nations has clearly pointed our finger at us. This is quite categorical: "The Panel considers that these interest payments and other remunerations are not in accordance with the assets freeze, as described below." (page 50 of the letter addressed to the President of the Security Council). Minister, what follow-up will be given to this report by the United Nations? Is Belgium, beyond this damage in terms of image, subject to sanctions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic993x.u5	Mr President, Minister, I hope that today you will bring all the clarity that you are being asked for. Indeed, we sometimes have the impression that we would have a better chance in addressing a parliamentary question to the Libyan government than to yourself, as your opacity is constant. This leads us to believe that there is some information to hide in this serious matter, if any. If you don't mind, I'll deal with this in a systematic way. First of all, I would like to know, for each institution, the evolution of the amounts involved – frozen or not – capital, interest, dividends, etc. Secondly, the recent UN report refers to a serious fault on the part of Belgium. In your view, whether or not interests could be released is a controversial issue. That does not seem so obvious to me, as the United Nations has taken a fairly clear position. In any case, Mr. Minister, in case of doubt, was it not appropriate to abstain and, therefore, to avoid the release of interests? With regard to the LIA (Libyan Investment Authority) fund, it is not clear who the current holder is. Obviously, he took advantage of partial release. What information do you have about the traceability of frozen funds? To whom have they been paid? What progress have they made? The press revealed that this money could have contributed to the financing of militia weapons. We even talked about planes filled with weapons in Ostend. What can you tell us? Have any letters been exchanged between the representatives of the LIA fund and yourself, your administration or your predecessors? Similarly, have any discussions taken place at any time between representatives of the Belgian Government and the Libyan Government in this regard? I now come to Euroclear. Does this company have a responsibility for this release of funds or has it taken any initiative by strictly sticking to what the Belgian authorities have allowed it to do? Is Euroclear the only Belgian banking institution that has released funds or are there others? Can you provide us with the letters exchanged between Euroclear, the administration – the Treasury, for example – and the successive Finance Ministers? This would clarify the manner, form and arguments for any instructions given by the Belgian authorities to Euroclear. As far as CTIF is concerned, it appears that no information has been transmitted to the latter by the banks. However, there seems to be a question of arms trafficking with the possibility of terrorist acts. However, any weapons that could finance terrorism must be reported to CTIF. Why has this not been done? Mr. Chairman, perhaps the CTIF would have to be heard in order to know its position on these issues. In any case, an institution such as Euroclear has, in a way, a privileged view of all banking exchanges or, in any case, global stockholders. So it's an incredible window on all international finance. And if it does not meet all of its communication obligations to CTIF, it is very serious. The RELEX Group met on 20 October 2011. Who was present at this meeting? Can you provide us with the minutes of the latter? What was the outcome of the meeting since the group concerned was not a decision-making group? I now turn to the decision of 4 October 2012, which we have only heard from the press. Minister, you talked about a decision or, in any case, a position of the administration in 2011. According to the press, a decision was made in 2012. It would be interesting for us to have further information on this two information. Do you confirm that the formal decision was taken on October 4, 2012? By whom was it taken? Is it the Chief Executive Officer of the Treasury, as has been said, or someone else? On what basis? Was it with the approval of the Minister of Finance or other ministers? Who was notified of this decision? Can we have copies of the various letters in connection with this decision of October 4, 2012? Finally, the final component relates to ministers and the post-RELEX process. Who has confirmed this position of a forum without decision-making authority? When? What role successive Finance Ministers have played since 2011, that is, MM. Did Reynders, Vanackere, Geens and Van Overtveldt play in this file? If they didn't play a role, just say it. But, Minister, if you have any information on the role played by yourself and your predecessors, we should be told here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic993x.u6	Other groups can join the debate. This can be done either now or in the reply following the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic993x.u7	Mr President, my colleague Georges Dallemagne is currently abroad and was therefore not present in this debate, but he too, like many of our colleagues, has asked many questions, which have been answered dilatoryly. These answers have not allowed us to shed any light on this case today. I will not repeat the questions that he and the colleagues who have just spoken have asked, but I would like, at this stage, to draw attention to the issues underlying this issue. We are not just here to have an exchange of questions and answers as there are every day in this Parliament. We are really at the heart of a case that seems to me to be at least serious, not to say serious. First, there is a financial issue. We're not talking about small amounts. Fifteen billion assets frozen, and interest of the order of 200 to 300 million euros per year are colossal sums. Yesterday we had an exchange on tax aid to a well-known sector. We were talking about 150 million euros a year and that was an important subject. Here, the amount is 15 billion euros! On a strictly financial level, it is really justified that our Finance Committee, if it wants to deserve its name, should be able to make all the clarity on this matter. The second issue is geostrategic, and major for security. We're not just talking about assets, we're talking about Libyan assets. Libya has nevertheless played a major role in the evolution of international security in recent years. These are not minor or insignificant issues. Behind this are issues that follow on, related to the financing of international activities, and possibly terrorists. When we pull the thread from the pelotus, we can come up with serious questions about international security. I identify a third issue, and it's not thin. This is about our country's credibility on the international stage. We were collectively questioned through this expert report. Clearly, in their view, we have not respected the constraints imposed by the United Nations. What is the Belgian state's credibility in the international concert if we can be so pinned for such serious shortcomings? This is an important question, because it is a bit of Belgium's image that is being played in this case. The fourth issue is political responsibility. In this case, I don't want to sue anyone. The finance ministers have succeeded each other, and we see that they are trying to pass on the "smelling valet" from one to the other, wondering who will eventually take the lead: the current one, the previous one, the previous one? Beyond people's questions, it is interesting to understand how such decisions have been made. Who has decided to release the interests of these assets? If there is no answer to this question, we must ask ourselves about the functioning of the Belgian State and the proper management of the "administrative-political" machine. It is really important that you provide precise answers to this chain of decisions, trying to get out of the unsaid or shadowed areas. Finally, I would like to identify a final issue, which is a matter of democratic transparency. Without making inflamed speeches, it must be recognised that it is quite amazing to see that after so many weeks and months of questioning and questioning, we are still looking for a bit of information in the press, in a Belga agency or through a parliamentary question. In a modern state that respects itself, in the light of the principles of transparency, we expect that all the light will be shed, that the file will be placed on the table not through partial answers, but rather through documents. Could you make available to the committee the documents that we have just mentioned: this letter of 4 October 2012 and all the reports that you referred to in previous committees by groups of experts at Belgian and international level? Would we be able to receive all of these documents, as well as documents related to the relationship between Treasury administration and FPS Finance firms? It is only by having all the documents at our disposal that all the actors interested in this dossier will finally be able to form an opinion. Whatever shortcomings are likely to appear, it is better to honour one another by making all the clarity than to seek to protect one or the other or to conceal one or another mistake. It is still your responsibility, Minister: to help us make all the light. I want to believe it's your will. That is, in any case, what I expect from the answers you have to give us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic993x.u8	Minister, what is this dossier about? The principal has been frozen. It's about the interest that seems to be released every year. Can you clarify since when this release is taking place? Has a new decision been taken over the years? Has anything changed in the procedure? If so, why did that happen? If those interest rates are released, are we the only country to release them? Is it a practice that Belgium came up with in 2012? Is this an international directive? If there is a directive, is it clear? There seems to be some discussion about its interpretation. Has no one ever asked the question how to interpret it exactly? I cannot imagine that ministers are using this kind of procedure and never wondering whether it is going to be done in the right way. Is not the author of the directive, the European Commission in this case, asked how this should be interpreted? I can't imagine that didn't happen. Those are the main questions in this file. Mr Van der Maelen's argument is, as usual, reasonable again over the top. Perhaps he will send out an e-mail later with all sorts of information that turns out to be wrong, but I would be very happy if we could just get the simple facts from you, Minister, so that we can stop this circus.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic993x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not recall the many answers that have already been given. Like you, I wonder about the source of the Belga agency, as well as about the many interventions of some lawyers. That said, as I have already answered the previous oral questions, the assets frozen on 16 September 2011 - as specified in Article 5(4) of Regulation 2016/44 of the European Union - are still frozen, in accordance with the UN resolution that this Regulation implements. Since then, the frozen assets in the accounts have not changed. These amounts, not published in the report of the panel of experts of the United Nations, cannot be communicated under Article 18(2) of the European Regulation. The Libya Committee website states that the assets freeze, which previously targeted six entities – the Central Bank of Libya, the Libyan Investment Authority, the Libyan Foreign Bank, the Libyan African Investment Portfolio, the Libyan National Oil Company, the Zueitina Oil Company – has applied, since December 16, 2011, to the other financial assets and economic resources of two entities – the Libyan Investment Authority and the Libyan African Investment Portfolio – held outside Libya before September 16, 2011. In its resolution 2040 of 2012 and subsequent resolutions, the Security Council directed the Committee, in consultation with the Libyan authorities, to continue to review the remaining measures aimed at those entities. The Council also decided that the Committee, again in consultation with the Libyan authorities, should lift the designation of those entities as soon as possible. It is in accordance with this approach that the European Union Regulation, i.e. No 1360/2011 of 20 December 2011, released the assets of the Central Bank and the Libyan Foreign Bank to banks in Belgium. This is a useful reminder of the context of the time! There is a discordance of interpretation as to the interests of these frozen funds. If the panel of experts considers that these interests should be frozen, the same is not true for all Member States. This is demonstrated by recommendation No. 8 of the Panel of Experts to the Sanctions Committee. This recommendation stresses the need for an interpretation note in order to provide guidance to Member States on the correct application of the provisions of the resolutions as regards the payment of interest and other remuneration earned through frozen assets. I refer to page 58 of the French version of the report. In this regard, I invite you to take note of this report and its conclusions in their entirety. In accordance with an interpretation at European level dating from 2013, the interest and proceeds of the frozen funds of certain entities were no longer subject to the freezing measure, as large EU Member States and permanent members of the UN Security Council released them. Germany, the United Kingdom, Italy, Luxembourg and the Netherlands also use this interpretation. There has never been a letter of authorization to thaw interest, but a letter of clarification dated October 4, 2012 from the General Administration of the Treasury, which I have here a copy at your disposal. Indeed, for the Legal Service of the Council of the European Union and the External Action Service of the European Union, as soon as the LIA and LAFICO were included in Article 5(4) of the European Regulation, the LIA and LAFICO funds were photographed as of 16 September 2011, in the spirit of the 2009 Resolution of 2011. The General Administration of the Treasury is the competent authority for the monitoring of financial sanctions, i.e. it has written this letter. The FPS Foreign Affairs works in collaboration with other FPS where the subject matter requires coordination of the Belgian position with other States or international institutions. As already mentioned, the report of the panel of experts contradicts the interests of the LIA and the LAFICO mentioned in Recommendation 8. The dividends and interest of the blocked funds have been transferred to the accounts of the bank account holders for the account of LIA and LAFICO in Bahrain, the United Kingdom and Luxembourg. These countries are members of the United Nations and also of the Financial Action Task Force. It is therefore also their responsibility to control the final destination of the funds. Also note that, according to a very formal opinion from the European Commission, LIA and LAFICO should not be confused with the Libyan State. Nor can I explain the possibilities of intercepted aircraft with weapons, but let me be clear here as well: no weapons can be exported without the permission of the appropriate region. The arms trade in Belgium has been regionalised: for the import, export or transit of arms, ammunition, equipment for military use or law enforcement and the associated technology there is always a need for a permit from the Region in which the registered office of the company in question is located. The FPS Finance had no contact with the Libyan authorities after the publication of the expert report. There was only a meeting of my administration with Ali Hassan Mahmoud, the president of the LIA, on 30 March 2018 at the request of the Foreign Office to confirm that the frozen capital would also remain effectively frozen. Belgium has sent a formal request for clarification, both to the European Commission and to the United Nations Libyan Committee, and will, of course, immediately comply with the position of those authorities as soon as a specific answer to the question is known.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic993x.u10	Mr Minister, Article 1 of the European Union Regulation, which transposes the UN Resolution into European law, is clear and unambiguous as to the definition of "funds". Funds are financial assets and economic benefits of any kind, and in particular, but not exclusively – there is a listing – interest, dividends and other income from assets or capital gains on assets. This is the view of the European Union on 2 March 2011. The Regulation is amended several times thereafter, but it does not call into question this definition of frozen Libyan funds. The definition is clear. When we talk about freezing funds, we talk logically about capital and interest. You are announcing here that a public servant, the Chief Executive Officer of the Treasury, in consultation with the SPF Foreign Affairs, authorized in 2012, by simple letter, the banking institutions concerned (mainly Euroclear Bank) to transfer to Libyan counterparties, via the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg or other states, interest of 12 to 14 billion euros, or 300 million euros per year. This, I believe, is in total contradiction with the spirit and the letter of both the United Nations resolution and the European regulation! I cannot understand the reasons which led this high official, and therefore the Belgian State, to accept the thawing of these funds. You can read the opinion of United Nations experts as you wish. You're pointing out that they're asking for clarification. Personally, I would point out that they conclude that Belgium has failed to comply with its international obligations and that the greatest concerns may exist regarding the use of this money in the context of the construction of terrorist movements. Minister, this is a serious matter. Indeed, Belgium has become a member of the international community. It has failed to meet the challenges and has failed to comply with a United Nations resolution and a European settlement. That remains my interpretation, after hearing you. This is not good for our image or for our credibility. This is worrying, because we do not know what this money was used for or where it came from, that we let it go and that it was not reported to CTIF. We can imagine everything, at best, since the construction of hospitals and the democratic reconstruction of the Libyan state, at worst, such as the purchase of arms or the financing of terrorism at the time when, between 2012 and 2016, it was in the process of structuring itself. Even if there is an evolution, since you are going to give us this letter from the Treasury administration, I regret that you are refusing to play a completely open book with regard to Parliament on this subject. It took ten, fifteen, or even twenty questions, and in any case a dozen of me, to begin to understand. You give half-answers, you evade the most annoying questions, like: "Who communicated to the Belga agency?" You don't know that. You are hiding behind international law, which you have trampled on. I remain absolutely dissatisfied with the answers given to us at this stage. For me, Belgium, in 2012, and thereafter, since the facts have not been corrected, committed a serious mistake in accepting the thawing of the interests of these Libyan funds that were frozen for geostrategic reasons of global security. For my part, as a parliamentarian, I will continue to look. I find it necessary to be able to work with open books, especially by innovative methods, in order to have the last word in this dossier. Mr President, I would like to hear from Mr Vanackere, who was Minister of Finance in October 2010, and the then Chief Executive Officer of the Treasury. It seems to me a minimum for us to be explained the reasoning of the time and to be told what request they responded to by agreeing to release, from 2012, the interests of those Libyan funds that were frozen on the basis of an international application that was understandable in the context of that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic993x.u11	I agree with what Mr Gilkinet said. We have received half answers to clear questions. I stand by it, the government is failing in its constitutional duty to give Parliament all the information it needs to check whether decisions taken by the government are in conformity with the law, the Constitution and in this case international law. For the umpteenth time, I hear the government say, among other things, that there is a difference of interpretation, referring to a 2016 regulation, and that it is based on the interpretation given by the RELEX Group, which in turn relies on an opinion of the European Council. In any normal parliament, which wants to verify whether a decision taken by a government and referred to by a UN panel as contrary to the Security Council resolution, Members of Parliament should be given information on the decision taken at European level to enable them to verify whether or not the government has respected international law. In the present case, therefore, we must obtain the legal note from the Council's legal service. We also need a report on the RELEX meeting. Who was there? Who has taken what positions? We need that information so that we can decide whether our government has made a sufficiently careful decision to release these funds. So I'm still hungry at that point. I also remain hungry about releasing the money. I understand that there is usually talk of Euroclear, because there was 12.8 billion parked there. But also in three other banks, BNP Paribas, ING and KBC, non-nice amounts were fixed. Minister, we have not yet heard from you how the interests in those four accounts have been released. Was there only one decision that then fell when Steven Vanackere was Minister of Finance? The only thing we know today is the answer from Euroclear to the Treasury that the group would inform the Treasury quarterly about the interests that were released. So all we know is that there was a channel between Euroclear and the Treasury. However, we do not have any information about the funds parked at BNP Paribas Fortis, ING and KBC. There is a rumor that KBC's funds would have been transferred to the Libyan central bank and not to the two bodies mentioned here by the Minister. That rumor, which can only be refuted by the government by giving us information, can be totally wrong. As long as the government does not give us the information to which a parliament is entitled in a parliamentary democracy, such rumours continue to be circulating. I think it's our damn duty to try to find out whether or not those rumors are correct. So my conclusion is that I have received half of the answers to many questions today. I don't think we're finished yet. Like Mr Gilkinet, I would like to urge the then administrator-general of the Treasury to be invited here. I would also ask, however, that representatives of the European Council and a President of the RELEX Group be invited here to hear their interpretation of the Security Resolution. If we can't, we need to get the documents so we can see them. Mr President, I also propose that the UN panel be invited here, possibly together with the Committee on External Relations. Then we can hear from Members on the basis of what arguments they have a different interpretation than the interpretation given by the European Union. Only after we have heard those two bells, the European Union and the UN panel, can Parliament form an opinion. Parliament can then approve the government's decision or establish that mistakes have been made and how they can be avoided in the future. Mr President, I urge that we agree on this in the course of the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic993x.u12	Minister, if I listen to you well, you tell us, "Circulate, there's nothing to see... everything's fine, ma'am, marquise." You say the frozen assets are still frozen. I do not think that one person in this committee said otherwise. We're talking about the interests, which have disappeared. We asked you for the amount, and I didn't hear it. Then you say that this money went to Bahrain, the United Kingdom, Luxembourg. And we have the impression that it suits you. Wait, we are in a Parliament, this is a decision that has been taken against certain opinions of European bodies, and you do not want to know what has been done with this money outside! It is also a conflict where, at the time, you had President Gaddafi, who was not necessarily a choir boy. I feel like you're keeping an artistic blur in this file, and you're continuing to maintain it. Don't be surprised that we continue to ask for clarity! It is you and the government as a whole who are working to create this artistic blur. Then we ask questions. You're talking about a note. I find it abnormal that this note is not on our desk so we can discuss it. Apparently, we have to trust you in the legal arguments. Excuse me, I like you, but I don't have to believe everything you tell me! You are telling us that everything is fine, Madame La Marquise... Yet it is not me, it is not the opposition that has pointed out a series of things, but the President of the Security Council: "The Panel of Experts considers that these interest payments and other remuneration are not in accordance with the assets freeze, as indicated below." And we must believe you! Well, no, we won't believe you! We want to have notes on which we can base ourselves. And we want you to be a little more forward looking at that level. I conclude by asking you to hear at least the senior official of the Treasury, but also, of course, all the ministers responsible since the first decision. This may allow us to see more clearly, because in this case, you keep the artistic blur.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic993x.u13	Minister, like my colleagues, I deplore your opacity. At the speed at which you answer the questions you are asked, it will take a century to go through the file. You come back with inconsistent elements such as legitimizing the raising of interest funds. You invoke European decisions, the attitude of other Member States of the Union, but the international standards of the United Nations are higher than the European Union can lay down. It's still the most important thing. The UN report clearly challenges Belgium. You don't answer that. You say that the United Nations itself has said that we need to clarify things. That's not what happened. She realized that some did not respect the principles and felt that they should be recalled. In terms of logic alone, minister, anyone can realize that if we freeze the capital of certain actors, it is that they must not dispose of that money and that, necessarily, interests must be treated the same as capital. A three-year-old should be able to understand it, and you must be. Your explanations don't stand the way. If European actors or bodies have decided otherwise, what is behind these decisions should be seen. They are not motivated by respect for United Nations rules. Political elements must interfere. We can't keep playing cat and mouse, minister. We are in a situation where we will have to receive all the documents that were requested of you during the judgment, during the questions. I am not going to recite all the documents; I am thinking in particular of the RELEX minutes and the various letters that have been exchanged. Mr President, I think we need to get that from the minister. It is also necessary to be able to hear the various actors involved in this matter: the finance ministers, the head of the Treasury, the speakers at European and United Nations level. If, in the end, it is not possible, within the framework of the Committee on Finance or the Committees on Finance and External Relations, to obtain answers to the legitimate questions posed by parliamentarians, then consideration will have to be given to setting up a parliamentary committee of inquiry in order to shed all the light. If this is not possible through ordinary committees, a parliamentary committee of inquiry will be required. I see only that as a solution. In any case, we need all the light on this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic993x.u14	Mr President, unlike some Members, I have heard very clear answers. Mr Minister, you are the first to have really asked for clarity about the interpretation of the rules. I note that it is apparently not as simple as the Members suggest, because the answer would have come in a long time ago and would have been very unambiguous, and then we would know what to do. Mr Van der Maelen, I am glad that you have learned from the F-16 dossier. Then you came up with great truths that turned out not to be true, now you say it's about rumors. That is a step forward and perhaps we will get there someday. I hope that we will have the interpretation of the European directives that we have asked for, so that we can move forward and make a clear decision on this dossier, which has been going on since 2012. I would not rather be able to freeze the interests too, ladies and gentlemen, because I would suggest that orders should be made from certain arms manufacturers...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic993x.u15	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic993x.u16	...the ideological objections would disappear like snow before the sun.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic993x.u17	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, your predecessors may be pleased with your answer. They will probably think that you are playing the game of some ministerial solidarity towards them. Nevertheless, all the others, those who want to clarify this matter, will not be satisfied with your comments. You continue to gluse on the interpretation to be given to texts that are read differently depending on whether you are speaking to a particular expert. I believe that, given the stakes of this issue, this answer is not enough. You make me feel like I'm doing the big back. You leave the information to the dropper; when a letter appears in the press, you consent to communicate it to us. We'll have at least got that. You will send us the letter from the Chief Executive Officer of the Treasury dated October 4, 2012. That's good, since she was already in the press. It is a step forward, but it is not this gesture that will lift the suspicion. But it is the worst in this case: suspicion, that in some way you may feed in spite of yourself. Objectively, nothing you have said is such as to reassure us. We'll have to continue to investigate. I regret that rather than waiting for questions to be asked, for the press to question you and for information to come through, you do not make the choice to put all the documents on the table from the outset. If you do not, it will be up to this committee to do so with the appropriate means, certainly starting with hearings, in particular that of the Chief Executive Officer of the Treasury. You oblige us to ask for the continuation of this work by not providing us with the elements that would make all the clarity possible. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic993x.u18	Minister, I do believe that the scope of the dossier will require some clarification in the future. We cannot just end this today with this topical debate. I believe that the seriousness of the matter and the difference in interpretations between the European Union and the United Nations should be clarified, in order to see whether or not interest should be released and what elements have led to the release of this interest. We are talking about a considerable amount of money here. It is often about much smaller amounts in this committee. I therefore believe that this issue has not been closed with this topical debate. Parliament has the right to be clear on this dossier. The different interpretations need to be clarified. We need to look at the means available to Parliament in this matter. The population is entitled to proper information. Was there interference? Have people given an incentive to release that interest in order to make other payments? That is the suspicion that exists today. This is something that our committee needs to clarify. It's about hundreds of millions of euros. That's a lot of money. Belgium now has a seat in the United Nations. Remember that we are now one of the top countries in the world that everyone is looking at to ensure democracy. That's our job. We lobbied for that. We have made special efforts to have someone at the United Nations Summit. Then we cannot leave the UN in their shirt today by saying: sorry, what you are asking is contrary to what we thought should be done. More needs to be done. We owe this to the fact that we are now jointly responsible for ensuring democracy in the world. I therefore believe that we should continue to pay particular attention to this in our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic993x.u19	That concludes the topical and urgent debate. We will certainly come back to this later.
