ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u2	Mr President, on behalf of my group, I wish to be surprised at the fact that the question we had addressed to the Prime Minister concerning the problem of pre-pensions in the Carrefour case is finally referred to the Minister for Employment. I don't understand why things are going this way. It will be remembered that there are, visibly, more than problems of interpretation within the majority, political differences, if not ideological differences, which must be clarified. For this reason, it seems to me that only the Prime Minister can tell us what the government's position is. I would also like to remind you that the Prime Minister, who I see is attentive to my remarks and I thank him for that, had come to explain his position, his impressions and even his indignation at the announcement of the plans for dismissal at Caterpillar or at Carrefour. This must now be followed up and it must therefore be able to take on the policy it intends to implement on this issue. It should also be noted that there is clearly an institutionally misleading argument in some of them that would make us believe that the decision is the responsibility of the Regions. We consider it to be the federal government's responsibility and we will show it to you. At a minimum, there must be consultation with the Regions and only the Prime Minister can take the initiatives that will clarify the relationship between the Federal and the Regions. For all these reasons, we believe that it is up to the Prime Minister to answer the question of pre-pensions at Carrefour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u3	Mr Laaouej, in fact, this is not really a new problem. I have done some research on differences of opinion within the federal government. I have found nothing to differ on this. Hence, this decision, taking into account that the majority of the members' questions about Carrefour are directed to Minister Peeters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u4	Mr President, I have the impression that this is a little on the map: once it is the Prime Minister, another time it is not. Last week we asked Mr Franken questions and the Prime Minister answered all the questions. And above all, you omit to say that there is a problem with the Flemish Region in particular. Minister Muyters said there was a problem with the allocation of powers. There is clearly a problem between federated entities and the federal government. If an argument were still to be found, it would once again justify the need for the Prime Minister to respond. I do not understand why the Prime Minister decides not to answer and thus escape his responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u5	Mr President, I note that every week the PS Group gives a kind of introduction to the questions, a sort of appetizer for what needs to come. It's different every week, too. When one speaks of "à la carte," this is really à la carte. When the Prime Minister responds, people make a mistake and say that the Minister has to answer. If the Minister responds, the Prime Minister has to answer. Every week it is something else and that is a good sign that one does not know which wood one has to make arrows from.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u6	I propose to start the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since this week at least half of your government has been in favour of the privatisation of SNCB and Infrabel. After the first party of the majority, it is a deputy prime minister who wants to disengage the state from its responsibilities. Your Minister for Mobility, Mr Bellot, whom I thank for his presence, is moved to say that it is a bad idea, that it is unfeasible, that it must not be done. His voice seems increasingly isolated in the Council of Ministers. Let us recognize, however, the audacity of Mr. From Croo. It approves dark cuts in the rail budget, but manages to complain about the decline in the quality of service of SNCB. What a nerve! The continuous decline in punctuality, the general decline in services over the past three years, is not the result of chance. The railwaymen are pushed to the end. All this is the unfortunate and logical consequence of the three billion savings imposed on rail. But private supporters have nothing to do with logic. They engage in ideology in an almost obsessive manner. No matter what the facts and the numbers! No matter what privatisations fail abroad! The explosion in the cost of the ticket (+ 30%) and operating costs (+ 40%), the lack of reinvestment and the renationalisation of the lines, is the real face of rail privatisation in the United Kingdom! Prime Minister, do you not think that it is time to give SNCB and Infrabel the means to carry out their tasks in the service of the general interest? Isn't it time for this government to recognize that public transport is a necessity to meet the challenges of the 21st century? How do you intend to put an end to the uncertainty that half of your government has about the fate of SNCB and Infrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Devin, I thank you for giving me the opportunity to affirm the government's ambition to continue efforts in terms of reform and modernisation of the SNCB. It is indeed the meaning of the government agreement that provides for an ambition not only in terms of the financial consolidation of the SNCB, but also to strengthen the performance of the SNCB, with a top priority for the whole government: putting the customer user at the centre of our concerns. We want to work to improve the transport offer. Progress is being made because the transport plan has been validated, approved with an increase in supply of more than 5%. We want to work to improve productivity within the SNCB; productivity gains of more than 3% are registered. We support the ambition of relaunching investments in line with the investment pact under which four billion euros have been approved, and one billion more (five in total) to relaunch the work of the RER that was at a standstill – we regret it – and to approve regional priorities in agreement with the Regions in terms of priority investments. Having said that, I would like to be extremely precise. The Deputy Prime Minister, Alexander De Croo, contrary to what you want to make believe, has correctly indicated a temporality in his reasoning. He did say that we should continue to work on the performance of SNCB, which we want to do. You may have escaped this, but I would like to highlight it here, there are directives at European level that should lead us to prepare for developments in the coming years. This is the fourth railway package which was approved in 2016 by Parliament and which, for the years to come, guides a perspective not of privatisation but of liberalisation of rail transport also on the national ground. We are working hard with the minister to record results. Mr Devin, elections will take place in this country in 2019. They will be an opportunity for political parties to define their priorities and for voters to decide. Future governments will, as we do, need to improve performance within the NBSC.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u9	Prime Minister, you are announcing the colour: "If we win the elections, we will go even further and follow the path outlined by Mr. De Croo." Hear it well! The Socialist Party will continue to oppose those who advocate the privatization of SNCB, not through ideological fetishism – I am not talking about liberalisation! – but because you know and we know that the state must invest. You're quoting figures here, but what's your government's record today? RER file frozen for three years, removal of a billion euro investment plan, removal of the Thalys Wallon and still no management contract! "Let's wait for the elections to go even further, to do even more harm!" What SNCB needs, what Infrabel needs, are investments in man and machinery. The citizen, the user you put in the midst of your concerns and of whom you laugh now, is what he expects of you!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u10	Prime Minister, yesterday you met the German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, in Berlin to talk to her about European immigration policy. While you were talking to Mrs Merkel, the German Minister of the Interior, Horst Seehofer, talked to the Austrian chancellor, Sebastian Kurz. Maybe you should have. Angela Merkel embodies the open borders and the policy of weir to abolish ties with regard to immigration from the past. Sebastian Kurz, on the other hand, together with Viktor Orbán in Hungary and Matteo Salvini in Italy, embodies the future: a firm approach to immigration and the closing of borders. You also argued yesterday for guidance centres for refugees at the borders of Europe, while Mrs Merkel was won for information centres, a nuance. Prime Minister, we do not need guidance or information centres for refugees. What we need is a policy of zero immigration. Choosing between the Europe of Merkel's politically correct elite, or choosing the Europe of the people, the Europe of Orbán, Salvini and Kurz, can it not be so difficult? The politically correct elite to which you belong wants the immigration invasion to continue, while the leaders of the new Europe, the right-wing Europe of Salvini, Kurz and Orbán, want to close the borders and opt for an immigration stop. In fact, the question is quite simple, Prime Minister. Do you choose the Europe of Merkel and related people, or do you choose the Europe of Orbán and Salvini? Open borders or immigration stop, that is the real choice you will have to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, yesterday you had a conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel. It will, of course, also have been about migration. Have you talked about strengthening the European external borders? Where do you stand on a possible agreement on safe reception of refugees in North Africa? We believe that this is the only way forward, because if we have to rely on your policy, we are in it. If we look at the recent figures we have received from Eurostat, this shows that 16.3% of the expulsion orders are actually executed in Belgium, while the average in Europe is 36.6 %. We are in the 23rd place of 28 countries. I can only draw one conclusion to that, Prime Minister:wir purchase tie cousin! Unless it's on Twitter, maybe it'll work. Now the Council of Europe states that the housing of families with children in closed housing units is no longer possible. I hope you will keep your foot down here, Prime Minister, otherwise we will not be able to tell anyone. In our view, it is perfectly possible to create housing units for families that do meet the requirements of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It just has to do with the accommodation. As has already been mentioned, yesterday the German Minister for the Interior, Mr Seehofer, called for the closure of German borders for all persons who have already applied for asylum in another European Member State. Can you support that proposal or are you against it? We recognise the right to apply for asylum, but we are opposed to asylum shopping. In Italy, Austria, Denmark and even Germany, through Minister Seehofer, people are in favour of closed borders. The only solution is to put an end to the ferry services that the NGOs are organising today between North Africa and Europe. Not the NGOs, but the countries themselves must decide who enters the country. That is why I would like to hear from you what you discussed yesterday, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did indeed have a meeting yesterday with Angela Merkel in Berlin, in connection with the preparation of the forthcoming European summit at the end of June 2018. There were two main issues on the day-order, namely migration and preparations for the strengthening of the euro area. Discussions at European level seek to achieve additional results by seeking a balance in the euro area in the sense that risks should be reduced and solidarity increased. I want to be very clear about migration. The Belgian Government absolutely wants to play a strong role at European level. We are convinced that migration is a very important challenge for the future of the European Union and for the Schengen area. Last week I had the opportunity to explain our reasoning in the Chamber. I would like to repeat our priorities and share with you what I have discussed with Angela Merkel. Firstly, the top priority is the security of European borders. Every democratic country must protect and secure its borders. That's what we have to do. However, one must be coherent. One cannot, as I hear from time to time, argue against an ambitious European budget and, at the same time, ask for more resources for Frontex. I am in favour of more resources for Frontex. The European Commission has put forward a proposal for doubling the resources for Frontex in order to have a real agency with the necessary equipment, the necessary technology and the necessary people to be able to secure our borders. Secondly, apart from the security of borders, we must also make efforts to reform the Dublin agreements. The Dublin agreements are a sign of responsibility and solidarity at European level. They are also a sign of the fight against asylum shopping in the European Union. I can't do that. We must carry out reforms in this area. We are trying to build bridges between European countries in a constructive and innovative way, in order to make progress in the perspective of the Dublin agreements. Thirdly, an important and difficult challenge is to find a compromise and to make the right choice about agreements with third countries, particularly with Africa. The question is how one can at the same time conclude intelligent agreements, fight against illegal migration and assume our responsibility through a legal, controlled, migration channel. That is what needs to be done, even though it is not obvious. Progress has already been made with a few countries. For example, the European Commission is working with Niger to provide perspective and orientation in order to strengthen the development strategy in Africa. A final important point. This government has made great efforts to integrate those who come to Europe and Belgium. It does so together with the Länder because a meeting of the Consultative Committee is still planned. If these people come here, they must share our fundamental democratic values. Mr Dewinter, I give you an answer. Yes, my vision of Europe is certainly not your vision of Europe because for us the fundamental values and freedoms count. Those are important!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, my vision of Europe is now shared by governments in Austria, Italy, Denmark, Hungary, Poland, Slovenia, the Czech Republic and so on. These are our partners, my partners in the European Parliament and in the European Group, of which we, together with Salvini and Strache van FPÖ, Deputy Prime Minister in Austria, and others. Your Europe is the Europe of the past. That is the Europe of the open borders that led, Mr Dewael, to what is being confessed today by the godfather of Open Vld in an interview on Antwerp. Listen carefully to your old man's blanket. Mr De Croo says, and he is right, that in 13 years' time 70% of the population of Antwerp will be non-Belgen and in two generations' time the mayor of Antwerp will be a Moroccan, a Turk or a (word deleted at the request of the President). That's what the godfather of Open Vld says and he's right. [[Objections to different banks]] Immigration invasion has become a weapon of mass destruction in order to eliminate the identity and cultural identity of our people and of Europe, and you are responsible for this, Prime Minister, with your old Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u14	Mr. Laaouej, don't let yourself be provoked!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u15	Mr President, we are here in Parliament and you cannot allow everything to be said. It's incitement to racial hatred. They're Belgians.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u16	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. You're saying we need more money for Frontex. You also say that we are Eurocritical. Now, we need to spend more money on Frontex, but that's why we don't have to pay the EU anymore. The EU can better spend its money and use it more efficiently. It is now really five to twelve, when we look at asylum and migration policy we are mopping with the tap open. After all, we see that only 16.3% of the expulsion orders are effectively executed. This policy has a suction effect. As a human smuggler, I'd know where I'm going too. I'm going to Belgium, to the country without borders. Migration and integration policies have failed for decades. I can only see that there is not much change in policy. However, much changes in the street scene. The voter can no longer be fooled. We just have to admit it, we're gonna buy that cousin!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u17	Deputy Prime Minister, as you know, there is an agreement on a social plan for Carrefour. This would allow about 600 to 700 people, over the age of 56, to benefit from an unemployment scheme with an additional business. For the past 24 hours, we've been living amazing events. Indeed, members of the N-VA and the Open Vld – ministers, moreover! – presented this social agreement as a gift to workers who had almost reached pension age. They presented it as if it were not legal and that it was going to cost social security, and therefore other workers, much more. Minister Muyters, former Minister Van Quickenborne and Minister De Croo have been making staggering statements all day, including on Twitter. You smile, Mr. Van Quickenborne, but go see the reality of the many Carrefour workers who are now in this situation. You've spent your whole day explicitly telling anything to divide and raise people against each other! But the reality is quite different: it is the application of legal provisions. If you did not agree with them, you only had to change them in good time or change the rule. Moreover, it is not a question of sending these people quietly to the pension, but of sending them out of work with a company supplement. They will remain job seekers and will therefore be subject to the rules applicable to them. This is yet another reality, because the supplement is granted by Carrefour and is in no way a cost to social security! Deputy Prime Minister, assure me! Are you going to play in this very bad comedy or are you going to support Carrefour's draft social agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u18	Vice-Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will make a small reminder. On 25 January, we found ourselves here in the midst of topical questions about restructuring at Carrefour and the loss of 1,200 jobs. I made the proposal to receive the social partners in the Committee on Social Affairs and the Economy to analyse, listen to and try to draw conclusions, as we did for Caterpillar and ING. I would remind you that, at the time, after a period of hesitation, the majority played the law of "no" in committee to refuse these hearings. "Circulate, there's nothing to see! We're not gonna listen to Carrefour workers. We did it for Caterpillar and, no doubt, we will find the same questions or we will make the same observations." Today, in the context of this issue of pre-pensions, I have a better understanding of the internal difficulty faced by the majority. Each collective dismissal means that the government is behind the workers and will support them. That's the speech. But, as we have seen for the pre-pensions at Caterpillar, at the level of the acts, the workers were abandoned. Today, Minister, we feel that early retirement, pre-pension is being undermined. It is hypothecated by the main party of your majority. You've already made the system more complicated for age conditions. You have changed a unanimous agreement of the social partners on pre-pensions by putting in place a suitable availability, which remains a rather vague concept today. The Socialist Group wishes to reiterate here that pre-pension is not a privilege. The pre-pensioner is the victim of dismissal and is subject to a severe financial penalty. Nor should we lose control of the powers of the regions. There is a legal framework and it is your responsibility, minister, whether or not to grant pre-pensions to Carrefour workers. Minister, my question is very simple. Will you, on behalf of the federal government, validate the social agreement between the workers and the management of Carrefour?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u19	Minister, we are relieved to learn that the pre-agreement at Carrefour does not provide for dry layoffs. At least that's what we're hoping for. However, your painful ping-pong game with the regional employment ministers is likely to cause it to run out. You say that since the sixth reform of the State, it is no longer the Federal Minister for Employment who decides whether or not to grant a derogation from the legislation on the supplementary unemployment scheme, but rather the regional employment ministers. If one of the three ministers refused, the exemption would not be granted. According to the press this morning, the three regional ministers are sending you the ball, believing that it is not up to the regions to vote. The Regions only intervene in the event of redundancies, said Brussels minister Didier Gosuin, who must still welcome our party's opposition to the latest state reform. Clearly, the parties that voted on it did not all agree on the powers transferred or not in the field of employment, and they only realize this today. It's surreal! Minister, what specific provision do you rely on to claim that granting a derogation from the CCB legislation is not within your jurisdiction? What provision states that in the event of disagreement between regional ministers, the derogation would not be granted? If, as we think, these provisions do not exist, when are you going to put an end to what the press describes as a purely political imbroglio? It is tomorrow morning that the pre-social agreement will have to be signed!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u20	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, there is a restructuring plan in Carrefour that contains many elements to lead people to a new job. That is quite right, because we need a lot of people in the labour market. However, the same plan also states that people over 56 years of age may receive a supplement from the employer on top of their unemployment benefit. This is because the management is all too well aware that those people over 55 years of age will not be so easy to make money with unemployment benefits and will find it very difficult to get a job. Most Carrefour employees work around 24 hours a week. For a single woman, this means that she earns about EUR 1 430 net per month. If she is fired by the board tomorrow and ends up in the street, she will receive an additional payment of €40 per month from the SWT system. You heard me right: 40 euros a month. So it is not the great luxury that one makes appear everywhere, but it shows a little bit of reasonableness. Flemish Minister Muyters also knows this, because he has already approved five plans for such restructuring this year with SWT at 56 years. There's nothing wrong with that. More importantly, the unemployed in an SWT system have not been written off for the labour market or for us. On the contrary, these people must remain available for the labour market, take up job offers, and if they do not, they will lose their benefits. However, we note that in 2017 5% of the over 50s found a job and that the SWTs only received 17 percent job offers. It is therefore up to the regional levels to use extra resources to activate that group. It is nonsense to claim that abolishing the SWT will mean that all 50+ will have a job tomorrow. Moreover, the SWT has already been reformed and it has been agreed in IPA that the age for the SWT will be 60 in 2020. The government has agreed to this and these agreements must be respected. One-sided action is to create social unrest and chaos. Please stop portraying the redundant workers, to whom you expressed your sympathy months ago with great emotion, as great profiteers of social security. Stop it! Mr Deputy Prime Minister, what is your view on this restructuring plan? What steps will be taken further? Will you approve this plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u21	Minister, Carrefour announced a major restructuring in January: 1 233 people threatened to lose their jobs. As Mr Vercamer has already said, there have been many indignant reactions here to be heard and read. Some even said that we should invite the CEO to Parliament to explain why that decision was taken. Anyone who has a little bit of experience in this situation knows that social dialogue at company level is the most important thing to bring clarity quickly. In other words, consultation between workers' organizations and employers is taking place. What do the unions do? They're initially trying to save jobs. In the design I've read, I see they've been able to save jobs. Secondly, they try to find a solution for those who cannot keep their jobs. To this end, they base themselves on the current legislation. Dear friends, today's legislation says that 56 years is possible. One may like that or not like it, but that's what the law says. Either we respect the social dialogue, because you have now received a question based on social dialogue. Either we create here an atmosphere of profit and hammock on the hood of people who have no certainty today, on the hood of people who haven't asked to be fired, on the hood of people who just ask for clarity, on the hood of people who want to have an income so that they can pay bills. Minister, Mr De Croo just called on you at Villa Politica not to approve the agreement. I call on you today to approve the social dialogue and to approve the SWT.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u22	Mr Minister, the day before yesterday we were told that Carrefour is sending some 600 older workers from 56 years of age with a bridge pension, with their unemployment benefit being adjusted up to 95% of their net wage, to stay at home. We find this incomprehensible, in times when companies are desperately looking for workers. In Flanders alone, 6 000 vacancies are open at the VDAB in the retail trade. It is also difficult to accept in a context where everyone is beginning to see that we need to work a little longer and, above all, with more to keep social security and our pensions affordable. I also think it is a bad signal because it is actually a blow to the face of all those who work longer and who are very well aware that they, as taxpayers, will also have to pay for such schemes. Colleagues, these are not profiteers, of course. Of course, they did not choose to do so. I am therefore 100 % in favour of giving these people a generous exit scheme, but above all that they are intensively supported to find another job. Most people will be able to do this. So please let us use our common sense and go for solutions where the workers of Carrefour are not the victims of the reorganisation without undermining the government's activation policy because the social partners in the field are concluding agreements which happen to be better for them and for which they can simply transfer the invoice to the taxpayer. I do not think that is possible, Minister. Minister, as Federal Minister of Work, the final decision to stop this proposal lies with you. The question has already been asked a few times. Will you actually use this power to prevent Carrefour from sending 600 workers with a bridge pension? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u23	Mr President, Minister, a few weeks ago Carrefour Belgium announced that it would have to separate more than 1,200 people. The Renault procedure was then initiated. Today, it appears that an agreement has been reached between management and unions. This plan, which we do not yet know exactly the content of since it still needs to be approved in extraordinary works councils, seems to rely on voluntary departures and, on the other hand, on departures to RCC from the age of 56. If I refer to the 2017-2018 interprofessional agreement, the possibility of using an RCC from this age remains possible until the end of the year, but only in the case of a company in difficulty. This agreement has been validated by the government and is an element to be considered. It should also be noted that the legislation has been revised, so that workers benefiting from the scheme must remain available for suitable employment. This condition is consistent with the government's vision. However, it seems to me useful to recall that, with regard to restructuring and the RCC, while the federal role is important, the Regions must also take the lead, as it is precisely they who will have to approve the outplacement procedures. In this regard, Minister, it is my responsibility that you are considering a consultation meeting between the federal government and the Regions. It seems to us essential that the various actors in the case work in the serenity, in the interests of the workers concerned for their future and that of their families. Minister, we have heard a lot of people speak on this. First of all, have you been able to consult with the federated entities on the issue of jurisdiction? Secondly, I would like you to give us more details about the real weight of the Regions in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u24	Mr President, Minister, the best thing that can happen to Carrefour workers is to keep their jobs or possibly get another one of the same type, suitable, in another company. But they have been confronted since January 25 with a drastic plan of savings decided by their company, despite the fact that it realizes important benefits. Today, the question is what will happen to these 1,233 workers and their families, all affected by this savings plan. Two things one: either they will receive unemployment benefits or they will receive unemployment benefits and a supplement paid by their company, which will thus be responsible through social benefits from these wage supplements. That's the law. If these workers are under the age of 56, they are entitled, under certain conditions, to an income supplement if they are the subject of collective dismissal. Some members of the government seem not to want to understand it and caricature the situation while these workers are, above all, the victims of a situation they have not chosen. And it is you, the Minister of Employment, who have the competence to clarify the situation and to say things clearly. Will you accept, yes or no, the implementation of this scheme of unemployment with supplement paid by the company? Moreover, for these workers, the best thing is to be able to get back to work. They must remain available on the labour market. You are conducting discussions with the Regions and their ministers. What do you intend to do with them to offer these workers a training plan with specific conditions so that they can, if necessary, benefit from employment? They are now victims of a second element beyond their employer's greed: the employment situation for older workers. Their employment rate - like that of young workers - is insufficient in our country. What do you intend to do so that they can find another job?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u25	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, none of us will deny that what happens to the people of Carrefour, namely to be involved in closure or collective redundancies, is a personal tragedy for those people. No one's denying that. However, we must dare to transcend a little emotion. The only question we have to ask ourselves is what we will do with these people now. Is the decision taken a good solution for the long-term labour market and for those who end up in such situations? Colleagues of the opposition, what we will do now with those people is not a good solution for the labour market. We are in a period of tight labour market conditions. Between June 2017 and May 2018, in one year's time, the VDAB has received no less than 15 651 vacancies in the retail sector, for people without diploma requirements, but we are now going to approve a plan that will allow us to tell 600 people in 56 years to quit. Colleagues, this is not just about the cashier mentioned by Mr Vercamer. This is a blind system, it's not fair. It is about everyone, including the executive, the senior servant and the person who works in an establishment at administrative level, and not just about the cashier. It's a blind system. If one is lucky enough to get fired from that system, one can stop at 56 years, but if one sits at the small grocery store, and is not in that system, one can leave only at 60 years. I don't think that's a fair system. Colleagues, this system also leads to an employer getting rid of the elderly in the event of restructuring. We really need to stop doing that. The employment rate of older people in our labour market is far too low. If we continue to maintain this system and if you continue to argue for it, we will remain silent. Fifty-five people are unable to find work, but in our culture they feel that they should stop working. That's what we're gonna do. Minister, yesterday Flemish Minister Muyters had the courage to say no. He'll give a negative opinion on the plan. You said you'd follow that. Will you do that? The system exists. In our coalition agreement, we agreed to increase the age to 60 in 2017. Under pressure from the social partners, this age limit was reduced. In the meantime, the labour market is tight. How do you see this system in the future and in the coming year?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to stress once again, even for those who are not in the hemisphere, that SWT is not a pension. SWT stands for the system of unemployment with single payment. The unemployed remain available for the labour market. That person must not be written off for the labour market. That person must be helped by an appropriate new relationship. I hope that everyone now understands very well that pension and SWT have nothing to do with each other. Secondly, I would like to stress that we must not lose sight of the essence of the discussion. That is the essence of the restructuring of Carrefour for more than a thousand workers and their families is a personal tragedy. Almost a thousand employees, especially women, are losing their jobs. One may suggest leaving the emotions at home, but that's what it's about. You have to respect that this is what this is about, especially when you launch ideas. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the restructuring plan is concerned, we must not lose sight of our objective of helping these people find a new job and a better future. Compared to Carrefour's initial announcement, job losses have already been reduced by 200 units. This reduction can be attributed to social consultation. Most of the employees who lose their jobs are cashiers and usually have a part-time job, with limited pay. And yes, I understand that the plan provides for the possibility of SWT for those over 56 years of age, as is legally possible. If you look at the figures, you will see that this remains quite exceptional. In 2017, 686 workers under the age of 60 went to SWT in the context of restructuring with collective redundancies in Belgium. Of these, 103 people were 56 years old, 167 57 years old, 239 58 years old and 161 59 years old. And so much is being done about that here. By comparison, in 2011, the total number of employees was 2,180. SWT is therefore a deafening story, partly because the government has already reformed the SWT legislation. Is it so exceptional that we have come to a very bizarre discussion about this? Since 1 January 2018, the Flemish Minister of Work already gave five positive opinions in a file containing SWT at 56 years, representing 131 SWT'ers. The Walloon minister approved four times and the Brussels minister two, representing 81 and 85 SWTs respectively. At that time, the discussion was not held. Each time I received a friendly letter in which they gave their agreement, without ideological reservations, without political recuperation and without appealing to change the law. Ladies and gentlemen, why are we doing this now? I have to tell you, I have no idea. What I do know is that the royal decision based on IPA, which is now being called upon to change, explicitly states that SWT is no longer possible for those who are not 60 years old from 2020. Unless the social partners in an IPA would decide otherwise, SWT will not be possible for those who are not 59 years from 1 January 2019. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, let us keep our heads cold! Look at things as they really are! A thousand people lose their jobs. Some say this is an unacceptable luxury, as if people won Lotto. It's unforgivable. These people, who have an income of about 900 or 1,100 euros per month, cannot live from their pension. They want to work, they want to find the social contacts and wages for a job. In the meantime, I can only continue on the statistics, which indicate that only 18% of people with SWT received a vacancy of, for example, the VDAB in 2017. More than four out of five SWTs have received an offer in a whole year. Is the problem really with the motivation of those people or is it elsewhere? By the way, even with the activation of the fifty-five-plussers in general things are not going great. It is precisely for this reason that we have given the Länder additional power. Since 1 January, employment services have also been able to take into account competences in place of diplomas if they wish to provide employment for the unemployed. That also applies to SWTs. Finally, I would like to point out that people in the CCR remain subject to the requirement of adequate availability. Even if SWTs were less motivated, quod non, that would have no impact if they were offered vacancies. They must not refuse, and if they do, they can be sanctioned like other unemployed people. However, I would like to stress that this is not the case. The VDAB sanctioned 954 unemployed people in Flanders in 2017 for non-availability on the labour market. In 2015, the last year the RVA was competent, there were 2,604. This is a reduction of 63%. I decide. I want to continue the discussion, but with the right accents. Above all, I do not want to have a discussion over the heads, because no Carrefourcaissiere will be given a new job with the debate we are having. That is why I have asked my colleagues, the regional ministers for work, to organise a meeting as soon as possible in order to give a text and explanation on the application of the KB, which states that a binding opinion can be given by regional ministers. For the first time, however, we have three regional ministers in play. I would like to talk to them about how they see things and how we can deal with the issue in the interests of those involved. I will also tell you that as Minister of Labour, I cannot and will not do anything other than respect the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u27	Deputy Prime Minister, you have spoken as the minister responsible and I would like to thank you for that. Have the courage to go all the way and support this social agreement! What bad little political game are our colleagues from the N-VA and the Open Vld playing? How dare you say here, sitting comfortably in your seat of Parliament, that cashiers and other Carrefour workers are not entitled to what the law provides? How dare you say here that we play on emotion when it comes only to law enforcement? How dare you say here that it is the other workers who are going to have to get their hands on the wallet, when Carrefour is going to have to pay the worker supplement? It bothers you when you are told that you are telling anything! How dare you practice double standards, when your Flemish Minister of Employment has applied the same system when it suits him? This little political game you play is pathetic! It's done on people's backs! Deputy Prime Minister, I hope you will have the courage to move forward. Your government is deeply divided. Every week, it has become a national sport for your party, but also for the Open Vld, a sport that consists of making large statements with a single electoral purpose. The Prime Minister said a few days ago that he was going to work until the end of this legislature. That's not the case! What you do, especially here with Carrefour cashiers, is pathetic!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u28	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, before listening to your answer and after hearing some statements and reactions from the majority, I was wondering whether there is still a pilot on the employment policy plane. After attending the debate, I think that in less than two minutes, a fourteen-year-old could have noticed that the majority is blocked and divided on the file. This was realized by observing the members of the majority who applauded Mr Vercamer and Mr Spooren after their speech, but also those of the majority who did not applaud anyone, not even Mrs Thoron. Having said that, Deputy Prime Minister, I have heard your answer. I think she's brave. I would like to say to Mr Spooren that business supplements are paid by companies and not by social security. So it's not a burden for the latter. I would point out to you, Deputy Prime Minister, that in January we were very worried about all these workers and that today we have a social agreement without a dry layoff. It's an element that's not negligible. We need to think about these men and women who are 56 or 57 years old and who could find themselves on the tile tomorrow, and possibly be punished if they do not return to work. What perspective can we have at this age? As you said, business supplement is a right, pre-pension is a right for those workers undergoing restructuring. We therefore ask you to have access to their rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u29	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. We look forward to hearing you speak that language. It reassures us. In fact, you're giving yourself up to an arm of arms. No one's fooled! The N-VA does not want to validate your plan, and some, in your majority, are ready to support it. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u30	It's a small majority! Meanwhile, the workers are waiting for a definitive answer as to their fate. Indeed, for them, this is not a game! I therefore encourage you to continue in this direction and to stand firm for the workers of Carrefour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Indeed, the major challenge is not to take away the redundant workers' small financial supplement, in some cases EUR 40 per month, paid by Carrefour, but to actually help as many people as possible to get a new job. This implies that the regions are more committed to a positive approach to guidance, coaching, training and activation. They have all the instruments for that. Minister Muyters can work on such a restructuring plan. This is an appeal to him to invest much more in it. In addition, there is a need for a change of attitude among employers who have to value the experience and know-how of older workers, rather than throwing them away. The redundant workers have no message from a round of black people or profiling political parties. They need guidance and coaching. Let's go for that. Let us choose to help as many people as possible in a job. That's what people need.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive and useful answer. Indeed, when I hear some of my colleagues, such as Mr Lachaert, it seems as if they do not know what the SWT system is. Colleagues, it is not forbidden to work for those who are in the SWT system; those who do not make any efforts will be suspended. Minister, you are being accused of applying the law, which is very bizarre. I remember, however, that you will apply the current legislation. Mr Spooren, we would like to start the debate on longer working hours, but not in this way. I hear you say that SWT is paid by the taxpayer, while the employer, in this case Carrefour, pays for it. The job seeker must still be active. Let us remain honest and hold the debate with the right arguments. Mr Lachaert said that employers are the first to dismiss older workers in restructuring. It is also the same employers who do not want to employ older workers. So we have to do something about that too. It works both ways. Let us conduct the debate in a serene manner. I am pleased, Minister, that you have already given some assurance to the Carrefour workers today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I have recently noticed that whenever one identifies, in any field of competence, a problem and carries out a vision, it is immediately dismissed as a political game, as demagogy and populism. That's really starting to bother me. Mrs Kitir, the supplement is indeed paid by Carrefour and not by the taxpayer, but the unemployment system in which you keep those people for years through the supplement is something of social security. That is paid for by the taxpayer! If one looks objectively at the SWT system, without compromising the people who need it, one simply has to establish that the system is deactivating. That is why the N-VA, also in the context of the work deal that the Prime Minister is preparing, is calling for an accelerated phasing-out of that system and for an end to it at some point, with respect for the people who are in it, of course. That's obvious. However, we must also move towards a stricter application of the SWT in the shorter term. We hear talk about adapted availability here, but that concept does not work, nor does it work for the regions. At least in the short term, an active search must be carried out up to 65 years, as is the case for all unemployed people. Finally, I would like to call on the social partners, but in this case in particular employers, not to constantly seek sideways to circumvent or undermine the government's policy. After all, it is only when the social partners and the government are on the same page that we will be able to keep older workers on the job.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u34	Minister, thank you for all the information you have given us. In the context of restructuring, the objective is obviously to help these people find a job and to enable them to enjoy a better future. The CCB must be seen as a tool to bounce professionally, regardless of the age of the workers. Finally, we need to change our mindsets. This is also where the stakes lie.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u35	Minister, thank you for reexplaining the law. This was clearly necessary for some colleagues. This will still have to be done for the Open Vld and the N-VA. Above all, it will be necessary to apply it, because we are not yet at the end of our sentences. In this case, it is important not to reverse the roles. The redundancies are not the workers or, in this case, the workers, but the company. The payment of the income supplement is not the responsibility of social security, but of Carrefour, which is thus responsible. The implementation of this unemployment scheme, with additional income, is your responsibility as federal minister. This is not the responsibility of the Regions. Obviously, this system disturbs the N-VA and the Open Vld, who are against these low-income workers, who do not like social agreements – preferring social disagreements – who do not like our social security system and would like to see it evaporate. They'll find us on their way, minister. I note that there is no longer a majority to enforce the law. However, an alternative majority is available to operate this system. Minister Peeters, we ask you to go to the end and we will follow you in applying this regime to which workers are entitled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u36	Minister, I am disappointed because I have not actually received an answer to my question. (...): We have understood.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, the united union front has understood. I'm glad there was a lot of applause, including from the PVDA, for the answers. I believe, however, that we should have a little more vision and ambition in this country than chasing down the popular emotions that this dossier brings about. To be honest, I expect more vision. [[Rumor]] Dit is flat populism op de kap van de caissers bij Carrefour! We need to have more vision for the labour market in this country. We in Europe are one of the countries with very few fifties at work, and that is the kind of remedies that you have been defending in the past and which you will continue to propagate for the future. [[Rumor]] (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u38	The mail was confidential.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, let Mr Lachaert speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u40	I will conclude, Mr President. So I expect more vision and ambition for this country. In 2014, in the aftermath of a crisis, an agreement was made with the social partners. That was against our wishes, because there is something else in the coalition agreement. That agreement is laid down in a royal decree, and that royal decree states that we are going to 60 years. I ask for a very clear commitment, including those who cannot benefit from this system for large businesses, to those who work at the grocery store, namely that there is a clear and coherent system at 60 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u41	Colleagues, all the questions are worth asking. So I'd like to ask you to listen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u42	Sir, I thought there was a problem with the connection in the Chamber. When I'm through the first tunnel in Brussels, I'll have lost the cell phone signal. If I'm in the Westhoek tonight, in Ypres, Poperinge, the Hillland or Veurne, I won't be able to use the smartphone it's meant for, namely: for a smooth navigation or to listen to music. The question is, how are we going to solve that? Can this be done by adding an operator to the Belgian landscape? Maybe. However, what needs to come first is quality coverage throughout the country, with special attention to the white spots on the mappings in West Flanders, especially in the Westhoek. There too, they are entitled to good 4G, to good 5G. This applies not only to the smart cities of the future, in a few years' time the tractors in West Flanders will also need the 4G or 5G network. If we are to soon divide the space in the ether between different operators, the first requirement must be that every Belgian is entitled to good coverage. Do we have to license for 20 years right away? Colleagues, I don't know which plane you were on 20 years ago, in 1998. At the time, the most sold aircraft was the paging device. One then saw a number appear on a small screen of a device that was worn on the waistband. What plane are we gonna be on in 20 years? Maybe 20 years is too long and we shouldn't let those EUR 700 million cough up for 20 years, but we should tell the three or four operators to invest in a good network. They must ensure that all Belgians are well connected and that they can easily call and surf, not only outdoors but also indoors. Minister, in the context of this whole discussion, my question is whether you are prepared to impose those coverage requirements for the whole country, so that people from Torhout to Alveringem and from Tongeren to deep in the Ardennes can use their smartphones.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u43	Vice-Prime Minister, taking advantage of next year's auction of mobile frequencies, you want a fourth telecom operator to enter the Belgian market. You say that by creating a space for a fourth mobile network, there will be more investment, more competition and therefore lower prices for consumers. However, in order to achieve what remains our ultimate goal, namely the guarantee for our citizens of the best service at the best price, we must take into account all the factors inherent in this dossier and objectiveise them all. On the one hand, the price of mobile data has the reputation of being higher in Belgium than elsewhere, although some data from the IBPT show that Belgium is rather on average. On the other hand, it appears from the report of a consultant requested by the IBPT that there would be no business case to justify an additional operator in Belgium, the competition being, according to this consultant, already very strong with us. Finally, it is important to know whether investors are actually interested in this market and to ensure that those same investors present, where they already operate, all the necessary social and financial guarantees. According to you, the new investor could immediately build a 5G network and push other operators to follow it at a reasonable price. It could also access the fibre optic network. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, what is the current competitive situation of prices for mobile data in Belgium? You expect a positive impact on employment. Do you have more detailed information in this regard? Do you take into account the factors that I have mentioned and which do not necessarily go in the direction of the arrival of a fourth operator? Do you have a recent IBPT opinion on this issue? There is concern about the environmental impact of mobile service coverage. Indeed, the number of antennas required will be considerably higher. Do you have any information on this? Finally, I am told that auctioning would not be the same as for other operators and that there would be a particularity. Is that true? Can you reassure us in this regard? This is in particular a concern of Proximus.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u44	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I was here a few weeks ago. At that time I also stressed that almost every thirteen-year-old in our country has a smartphone. Twenty years ago, there was the radio. Today, that's the smartphone. They study and work with it. However, they are mainly on social networks, such as facebook and instagram, and upload videos. Young people and almost everyone in our country do that today. One thing is clear: we are all paying far too much money for that. Let me give you an example. For 20 gigabytes you pay 40 euros per month in our country. In France, that is 20 euros per month and in Italy recently only 6 euros per month. In Italy, a fourth player joined the market. Why is that? How come we in Belgium are paying so much money for telecoms? That's because the telecoms sector fell asleep. The three major groups of companies Telenet, Proximus and Orange are dividing and increasing prices. Today, too, they are raising prices. Today we have been able to see that again. Mr. Telecom De Croo, what are you doing? You will draw the consumer's card again. After all, a fourth player ensures that the prices will fall. Competition ensures low prices. What does the Minister of Consumer Affairs do? I expect that attitude from him, too. The Minister for Consumer Affairs is not listening to the consumer today, but rather seems to be on the side of the large groups. Ladies and gentlemen, which country do we really want? Our group wants a country with a strong telecoms sector, with low prices and huge coverage. So, Minister, I have two questions for you. What does the BIPT study say about a fourth player? What initiatives are needed to allow that fourth player into the spectrum and into space?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. The Belgians pay a lot for telecoms. The Belgians pay too much. Each of you has been asking me questions about that increase over the last few months, as soon as there was a price increase. You asked me what I would do in my capacity as Minister against the fact that prices are rising again and again. Moreover, there are Eurostat figures showing that in the last two years telecom costs in our country have increased by more than 6%. They have fallen in neighbouring countries. In France and Germany, by about 2%, in the Netherlands, by more than 13%. Should prices in our country have followed the evolution of the Netherlands, an average family in our country now paid 230 euros less in telecom charges per year. Why is that? That is because there is a lack of price competition here. In the bundles, in the fixed rates, there is a clear duopoly. The mobile market has also fallen asleep. The BIPT, the independent regulator, says it would be a good thing if a fourth operator joined. I am not saying that, the BIPT, which has a legal mandate to act for the telecom consumer, says that. The BIPT also says that today there is a concrete interest in being a fourth operator in our country. The introduction of a fourth player in other countries, for example last month in Italy, shows that it is indeed a viable business case to do so. In the Netherlands and France, where there are also four operators, we have also seen that additional competition has led to lower prices and larger data bundles. Of course, I understand the reaction of the current operators. It is quite logical that the three existing operators do not want a new competitor on the Belgian telecom market. On this slept Belgian telecoms market they can make one price increase after another. Even today, after I said yesterday that prices are too high, people continue to do so in a very cynical way. It is as if one wants to raise a big finger to the Belgian consumer, who already pays very much. Now we open all the records. Some say that the level of investment will fall accordingly. In France, this has not been observed in the previous five years. It was also not found that this trend towards four operators had a negative impact on employment. On the other hand, the level of investment was clearly supported. Mr. Deseyn, you're asking why one uses a period of 20 years. You may know, but that is a directive of the European Commission. If auctioning takes place, it will take 20 years to provide sufficient investment security. I agree with you that coverage is an important element. When I started as Minister of Telecommunications three years ago, 39 municipalities belonged to the white zone, today there are only 13 more. Indeed, in the licensing conditions proposed, we impose higher requirements in the area of coverage. In any case, I think that we should look at the facts in this debate. I therefore call on the BIPT, the independent regulator, to make its argument and the analysis it has made in order to reach the conclusions that a fourth player would be a good thing for the consumer to share and communicate with everyone, so that we can have a serene debate on this. The BIPT considers that a fourth operator would be a good thing for the consumer. I see no reason why the Belgian should pay more than a Dutchman for the same telecoms services than EUR 230 a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u46	Thank you for your answer, Minister. What we need is good quality at an acceptable price. You say you will increase the quality with the auction, but it says 85 %. Now, 100 %, also 100 % of the West Flemings, must be able to use a good 4G network, and in the future a good 5G network. We have a bill on the subject. We want to anchor the quality requirements and link them to the price of taxes and licences for operators. Let us be the frontrunner with our country for once. It is very much about communication, and it is a bit ironic that you are not prepared to take the outstretched hand and with everyone, not only with the operators, but also with the Minister for Consumer Affairs and the representatives of consumer associations, to see how the consumer is best served and how he can get the highest quality and more value for money. If you do not want to talk to the Minister for Consumer Affairs, perhaps you should talk to the municipal authorities of Diksmuide or Poperinge, where the city council discusses this issue month after month. For the people it is very annoying that in 2018 they will not be able to find smooth telecommunications in their living environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u47	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer. You're an agitator of ideas, someone who likes brainstorming. We like it enough. Consumer protection is also one of our priorities. That being said, it is true that it is a folder that must be objectified and where all parameters must be taken into account. I think they will. In this sense, I thank you for moving forward the reflection. The 230 euros per family are an important element in the reflection.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You're definitely on the Test Purchase line. We have been able to read this: you are drawing the consumer's card. Colleagues, remember the resistance of the telecom players about EU roaming six years ago. Today we can all facebook on the beach in Spain to our heart's content. As a party, we have fought very hard for this and today we are doing it again. We stand up for low prices and for very wide coverage in our country. Any party that is committed to low telecom prices, high data usage and more investment in the telecommunications sector is welcome alongside us at the barricades, Mr Deseyn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u49	Minister, the kick-off of the World Cup in Russia will soon be given. We are all supporters of the Red Devils, at least that's what I suspect. Our group certainly does not need communication guidelines to support 100% for the Red Devils. When the Belgians enter the turf, we say complexless: live Belgium, vive la Belgique! Of course, a World Cup in a country like Russia is not evident, a country which is a notorious human rights player, which discriminates against holebis, which is an ally of President Assad and which also bombs the Syrian civilian population. Yet such a country gets the World Cup football gift. We all feel that that's not true. Then please don't let Belgium make a caviar party out of that. Let us not play in Putin's propaganda circus. Let us use the stage to strongly denounce the human rights situation in Russia. Belgium must not remain silent. Ecolo-Green has tabled a motion for a resolution which will be discussed in plenary. We urge that the Belgian Government maintain sufficient contact with human rights organisations and ask our officials to bring people from the Russian human rights organisations to the stadiums to make sufficient statements. My question to the Belgian Government is whether it is sending representatives to the World Cup in Russia and what the attitude will be there. Especially if our country becomes a member of the UN Security Council soon, we cannot simply support it in the gallery. We must actively use the World Cup to raise the right points. Human rights are as universal as football itself. I look forward to the answer and the attitude of the Belgian Government in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u50	Mr De Vriendt, this is nothing new. Football is a party that connects people. That's a very good moment. I hear you're a big fan of the Red Devils, too. Secondly, I refer to the comments of the Director of Amnesty International Flanders, Wies De Graeve, which I have read today. I quote: 'I have no objection to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Didier Reynders and other excellencies calling on the Red Devils, but let them be convinced and loudly encourage the human rights champions of Russia'. That has always been the case and will continue to be the case. I was in Moscow in February for a direct discussion with my colleague Sergei Lavrov and I have always defended a strong position, not only on Crimea and the situation in Ukraine, but also on the situation of the homosexuals, LGBTI, in Chechnya. We always do that in conversations with other countries. We have a strong opinion on some points and, where possible, we are trying to reach an agreement. This will also be the case during my visit to Moscow on 23 June before the Belgium-Tunisia competition, where a contact is planned with my Tunisian colleague and I also have bilateral contact with my colleague Sergei Lavrov where I will defend exactly the same position on human rights. I am not waiting for a World Cup to address such issues. It is my custom as Belgian Foreign Minister to ask for respect for human rights, especially in a country like Russia.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u51	So, Minister, you will go to the World Cup and will be in contact with your Russian foreign minister. However, that is not enough. In addition to your diplomatic contact, our question is to contact the Russian human rights organisations and make the necessary public statements in Russia.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u52	I have already been in contact with human rights activists, including the situation in Chechnya. It is possible to do more. I have been in direct contact and will have it on June 23rd. That's nothing new. I have already given an answer on the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u53	The fact that you'll meet your foreign affairs colleague is a bit of a novelty. You have not just underlined that you would make contact with human rights organisations or that you would make public statements. That's exactly our question. Do not participate in Putin's propaganda circus, with just a contact with your colleague, but work actively with Russian human rights organisations there. It's necessary. Sport has a social role, sport is not an island, sport can also make people think and touch. It is not evident that this festival of sport takes place in such a country. So we expect a future member of the UN Security Council to be very proactive and critical of the human rights situation in Russia.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u54	Mr President, Minister, I should like to begin by questioning you about a radicalized inmate who just came back into conflict. He enjoyed what is called "limited detention." Fortunately, he was caught in time by the police when he didn't return to prison. Actually, it's completely insane that someone like that could get out. Luckily, it's worse than that. We shared this concern with you last week. We will not go back to that, but we will remain in the same atmosphere. There are currently dozens of double-national terrorists in your prisons. Yesterday we heard the scoop of the federal prosecutor that a judge, on top of the ordinary penalty, decided that a double-national terrorist would lose Belgian nationality. This is a law that dates back to the summer of 2015. We had to wait three years for it, but it reminded me. What can we do if someone is taken from Belgium? After the penalty period, the person concerned may be requested to leave the country. In addition, he or she loses a lot of his or her rights, such as benefits. Under the current law, which was adopted years ago, two criteria must be met. First of all, jail time must be longer than five years. Secondly, at the request of the prosecution, the judge must decide on the taking of Belgian nationality. Mr Minister, moving insight teaches us that one cannot be a little bit terrorist. Five years has become irrelevant to us. A conviction is a conviction and should automatically lead to the revocation of dual nationality. Moreover, this should no longer be imposed as an additional penalty by a judge. My two questions are actually very specific. First of all, has there been any discussion with the College of Attorney General in a recent past? What came out of the bus? Secondly, could you agree with our proposal that, in the event of a conviction for a terrorist-related crime, the Belgian nationality should automatically be taken away from persons of dual nationality?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u55	Mr Metsu, in our country there are two ways of declaring his Belgian nationality invalid. The first is when one fails to fulfil one's obligations as a Belgian citizen in a serious way. Then the Attorney General is seeking that revocation before the Court of Appeal. Six people have recently been deprived of their nationality on this basis, but never forget that even this ground of revocation can only be invoked by the prosecution to the extent that it does not render the person concerned stateless. After all, we cannot make people stand alone. For the second ground of revocation, you rightly refer to the law of 2015, in which persons convicted of a sentence of at least five years can be deprived of their nationality without delay for a terrorist offence. This can only be done if they are not Belgians or at least not Belgians of the third generation. There too, it is not possible to make a declaration of revocation or to ask if the person concerned could become stateless. The example you give about Charleroi, correctional court, Hainaut, of 13 June 2018 is such an example of someone who does not become stateless and is nevertheless declared void of his nationality. The College of Attorneys General, which carries out our joint criminal policy, has decided that it systematically asks for the revocation when a main prison sentence of at least five years is applied for without delay. It is, of course, the judge who decides independently, as he does, Mr Metsu, in the case of the limited detention you referred to in the preamble to your question. Until further notice, the Minister of Justice has only a certain relationship with the prosecution, not with the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u56	Mr Minister, it is indeed all very conditional: can, become, and so on... Let me return to my speech. There are currently dozens of double-national terrorists in prison. We had to wait three years for it before there was a judge who decided like yesterday. My question, however, is what we will do with all other cases. That is my question: what are we going to do with those who have not just reached those five years or who have been told by the judge that we will not apply it and that they may retain their dual nationality? In my view, it would be much easier for everyone to make automatic withdrawal legal. You know it and you will acknowledge it: terrorists are against everything we stand for, but they want to be able to take a bit of money from time to time. Minister, we can move another stone, we can make society safer again. We must get rid of the fact that we are benefiting from our system. Please take that with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u57	Mr President, Minister, child poverty in our country is rising year after year. I include the latest figures published by Child and Family in Flanders: 12,01 % in 2015, 12,82 % in 2016 and 13,76 % in 2017. In our country 13.76 % of children live below the poverty line. And this in one of the richest countries in the world. Belgium is the seventh richest country in the world, and yet more than 13% of children live below the poverty line. 400 billion a year of wealth is produced in our country and more than 13% of children live below the poverty line. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. The PVDA cannot accept that as a left-wing party. Then the question arises as to what the federal government is doing about it. Mrs Demir says that only one third of the actions included in her plan to combat poverty were implemented. So nothing is actually being done by the government, nothing has been done by the N-VA to combat the poverty of these children. How is that possible, Minister? How can we go on like this? However, in the coalition agreement, the fight against poverty would be waged and benefits would be brought above the poverty line. But what did the N-VA say? The N-VA said this wouldn't happen. Why? Because there's supposed to be no money. It has been said here for weeks that there is no money to fight poverty. Minister, you come every week to plead for billions for your F-35s. Every week you argue for the purchase of expensive aircraft, but when it comes to combating poverty, there is no money. No money in the pocket. What are we doing, Minister? Every year, half of our domestic product just goes abroad, to tax havens. And there's no money to fight poverty. Minister, when are you finally going to fight poverty and not just the purchase of expensive fighter planes?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u58	Mr Minister, yesterday in the Flemish Parliament a shameful debate took place on child poverty in my view. In Flanders, the child poverty index has indeed increased to 13.8%. More than 1% added in barely a year. In Antwerp it is already about 18%. Almost one in five children in Antwerp live below the poverty line. You should imagine that, almost one child in five. Child poverty is unacceptable in our view, Minister. Pure injustice! This puts a mortgage on thousands of future lives and on our society. So it's a scandal. As the previous Member rightly said, this is scandalous for a society like ours, but under current policies it has become normal. After all, this government increases costs by all kinds of taxes: it increases VAT on energy to 21%, makes medication more expensive, sets an index jump. And if it's specifically about Flanders, I can go on like this for a while. Against all the promises of the government agreement, the benefits do not rise. Benefits do not rise to the level of the European poverty line. Minister, your government, through Secretary of State Demir, has even completely abandoned this ambition. I can't, she says, I can't. In July there would only be 40 euros for family heads. You know as well as I do that this is a drop on a hot plate. According to experts, it should be between 150 and 200 euros. You'll come in at 40 euros. Peanuts! I do not see any measures, Mr Vandeput. I do not see any concrete plan, Minister. Or is there? You'll have to convince us. What measures will this government take to put an end to poverty, in particular child poverty?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Zuhal Demir apologizes for her absence from the United Nations Conference on People with Disabilities in New York. Let me give you some answers. New figures from Kind and Family for Flanders were published on 12 June. These were discussed in detail yesterday in the competent Flemish Parliament and in the Flemish media. I understand that certain people would like to repeat that debate here in order to get a glimpse of it. In the press release of Child and Family we read: "The poverty index for children whose mother did not have Belgian nationality at birth is much higher than the poverty index of 6.1 % for children with a mother of Belgian origin. The increase in risk-poverty is mainly influenced by the increased increase in the risk-poverty index in children with a mother of non-Belgian origin." It also says: "The proportion of children with a mother of non-Belgian origin in the population of young children is increasing." Mr Hedebouw, Mrs Jiroflée, you are quite right to be outraged by these figures. I believe that this applies to all of us. However, you must also be honest. The question is, what should we do about it? We find that it will never be good enough for you. If, for example, there is a strong language policy, that is not good. However, we know that the language skills of parents increase the chances of a job and promote the integration of newcomers. There is a problem and at many levels there is a contribution to finding solutions. When it comes to child poverty, we must never forget that these children grow up in a family. Often both parents aren't at work. The strategy of this government is therefore to stimulate work and create jobs. This is undoubtedly the only way to ensure the social protection of the population. Only then will there be room to increase social benefits in a sustainable way. This policy of the federal government is working because the lowest benefits for families have already increased more than twice as much as during the previous legislature. Mr Hedebouw, Mrs Jiroflée, once again, I believe that everyone shares your indignation at these figures. However, please open your eyes and acknowledge where the problem is. Only proper analysis will lead to the right recipes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u60	Mr President, Minister, you see? It's the same with the N-VA again. There's a child poverty problem. Who's the culprit? Those are the refugees. If it isn't the refugees, it's the Walls. If it isn't the Walls, it's the unemployed. It's always everyone's fault, except for the N-VA ministers. I'll tell the N-VA to turn off the plate! Stop it. People don't take that anymore. The figures are clear. Refugees increase by 0.2 %. Look straight. It's just your own policy that pushes people into poverty. What are you gonna do about it? You're not doing anything about it. And that's the problem. You're talking about looking for a job. Well, of the people with jobs, there are more and more, namely 5%, who are already living in poverty. It's "walking with the poor" with the jobs you create. That's the problem with the N-VA. The N-VA simply wants to divide and rule, that is clear. People are angry about this poverty and you are always trying to make the mistake of the people who are the victims of poverty. However, you will see that people are getting tired of it. They have understood that the unity of the people can solve poverty in Belgium. Clearly get the money where it is, that is to say, from the richest, and pursue a clear social policy that is not based on the principle of everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u61	Mr Minister, we really do not want to come up with our question in the spotlight. On the contrary! I am deeply ashamed of this country. I'm ashamed in your place. Raising benefits with peanuts, of course, does not help if on the other hand all costs are pushed up. We also notice that, because poverty rates are rising. That's all that matters and that's noticeable. Minister, drawing up a budget means making choices. We would choose to give as many children as possible every opportunity. What you would choose, Minister Vandeput, is now very clear. You may refer again to your toys in your answer to the next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, you have recently indicated in committee that you are going to write a note to the government on the results of the procedure you have chosen for replacing the F-16s. You indicated that this political note would also include considerations on the French offer. This statement is intended to be reassuring and constructive, but it surprises me. Indeed, you did not get to know this French offer in depth. I remember your spokesman's statements on May 15, when your cabinet had finally received representatives of the French government, at the express request of the Prime Minister. At the end of this meeting, in the seconds that followed, your spokesperson said that you had learned nothing new. This statement was both brutal, useless, contemptuous and contrary to the truth. For in this note there are very important considerations for our interests and for Belgian Defence. They concern a strategic deepening of our relations with a considerable ally, the development of the future European aircraft and substantial industrial returns. I do not understand that such an important offer is being despised at this point. We need to get you back together, Minister of Defence. I do not understand what reasons, other than psychological, but certainly neither military nor budgetary nor strategic, allow you to remove such an important offer from the back of your hand. I would not understand that at the time when the United States is waging an illegal trade war, we were buying an American plane. I would not understand that at a time when the American Court of Auditors, in a detailed report dated 5 June, declared the F-35 programme by highlighting its exorbitant costs and its 911 existing failures, 111 of which call into question safety, we chose this plane. I would not understand that the French offer is rejected with a back of the hand. I ask you to share this 40-page document with your government colleagues who have not yet received it. I would ask you to read the 3,000-page document that France drafted in the context of Belgium's call for the renewal of its fighter aircraft. I ask you to be serious about this because it is about the future of our defence credibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u63	Mr Dallemagne, I sometimes ask myself whether we are in Parliament or between lobbyists. Nevertheless, I will answer your questions. On March 17, 2017, the government took the decision to launch an open competition between state agencies that had shown their interest in replacing our F-16s. There is a procedure, Mr. Dallemagne. Two days later, I put the RfGP (Request for Government Proposal) online. Everyone had access to it: parliamentarians, the press, industry and, of course, the population. It's not just about purchasing and replacing our aircraft, we're also looking for a strategic partnership for our air combat capability for decades to come. The RfGP takes into account in detail what we expect, as well as the timing and procedure to follow. As of September 7, 2017, as prescribed in the RfGP, the ACCaP (Air Combat Capability) team received an offer from the United States for the F-35 and another from the United Kingdom for the Eurofighter on behalf of the nations involved in this program. France has made the choice not to offer an offer. On the other hand, I received a letter from my French counterpart proposing a comprehensive strategic partnership for the combat aircraft. The ACCaP team, as mandated, continued its activities on the basis of the two offers received which resulted in two best and final offers on February 14 of this year. In an informative interview between Ms. Parly's office and mine a few weeks ago, about 40 slides were presented and passed on to government partners. As you said – and now you're right – the file is in the process of being prepared for submission to the government. As I have already pointed out several times, the government will look at this issue in the light of all the elements that can play a role in this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u64	Mr. Minister of Defence, I think you are in a particularly poor position to talk about lobbyists! When you see that Lockheed Martin himself came to defend your procedure and question the lifespan of the F-16s, I think it's quite inflated!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u65	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u66	My request is simple, Mr. Richard Miller. Besides, you might want to talk a little more about this. The MR has a particular voice in committee, in Parliament, where he could speak more freely. What I am simply asking you is to stop scorning an offer that you are calling today – and this is the first time that I hear you say it – of a global strategic partnership, an offer from an important, serious, close partner, a neighbour of Belgium with whom we regularly conduct military operations and with which – one among others – we are trying to build the future of European Defence. The way in which your spokesperson dealt with the conclusions and the way in which this meeting took place in your office on 15 May is unspeakable. This is an important and serious offer. I ask you to treat her as such. Today we urgently need a European solution to the development of our combat aircraft. It's essential. We need, for example, to participate in the development of the future European combat aircraft with the Germans and the French. We know it's a way in. We need to have complete interoperability with the French. We need industrial returns. We need a reliable aircraft that has already demonstrated its reliability in the field. That is why we need to analyse this offer seriously. I would not like the note that you are going to transmit to the Prime Minister and to the other ministers of your government to ignore this French proposal because, according to my information, they have not taken note of the note that was presented to you and they certainly have not taken note of the in-depth content of the French offer. I ask you today to do so and to realize it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u67	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u68	On 29 May last, Marcel Seghers, a former member of our Chamber, died in Wuustwezel at the age of 81. Marcel Seghers was a VLD-Kamer member of the Brussels arrondissement from July 1994 to May 1995. He was also mayor of Bellingen from 1970 to 1976 and ships in Pepingen from 1983 to 2006. In the name of the Chamber, I have offered my sincere condolences to his wife and his family. André Grosjean, a former member of the Chamber, died on 7 April in Verviers at the age of 85. From May 1995 to October 1998, André Grosjean sat as MP PS in the Chamber for the arrondissement of Verviers. He sat in the Senate from November 1981 to April 1995. From 1971 to 1981, André Grosjean was a member of the Liège Provincial Council, which he chaired from 1980 to 1981. He served as mayor of Welkenraedt for twenty years, from 1983 to 2003. He remained there as a communal councillor until 2010. On behalf of the House, I offered our sincere condolences to his wife and family.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u69	I have received an amendment to the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the previous title of the Code of Criminal Procedure with a view to introducing the special method of investigation for civil infiltration, No. 2940/9. I have received an amendment to the bill amending the Code of Criminal Investigation and the preliminary title of the Code of Criminal Investigation with a view to introducing the specific method of seeking civil infiltration, No. 2940/9. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 June 2018, I propose that this amendment be sent to the Committee on Justice (Art. 93, No. 1, Rules of Procedure). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 June 2018, I propose that you send this amendment to the Committee on Justice (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u70	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2741: Nathalie Muylle, Damien Thiéry, Yoleen Van Camp 2687: Catherine Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u71	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2741/4) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2741/4) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u72	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Thiéry and Mr Van Camp and all the others, who have worked together on this motion for a resolution. Through the proposal we want to improve the life expectancy and quality of life of many patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, a very rare chronic lung disease that evolves very progressively, disabling severely and is incurable. Most patients die two to three years after diagnosis. Actually, we don't know the right cause of that disease today. It is therefore important for patients that we create a good framework. We have very specific questions for the government. For example, we ask for centres of expertise to be set up that combine the expertise, based on diagnostics and evidence-based medicine. There should also be sufficient financial resources for the centres of expertise so that they can do good multidisciplinary work. We also ask for financial compensation for patients, who often have to travel far away, so that they can be better organised. Patients should also have faster access to the necessary or new medicines. The procedure for obtaining it is now quite difficult. Finally, a trans-mural cooperation model should be set up for them in the first and second lines. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution represents a first and important step. We hope that the Minister of Health will work quickly and that many of our questions will be translated into legislation or agreements with the sector. After all, we are convinced of the urgent need for more framework and financial support for this serious disease. I would like to thank all my fellow Members who have supported the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u74	Mr President, I would also like to thank all the colleagues who, by far or near, have been involved in the implementation of this resolution and, in particular, Mrs Muylle, who is the first author of it. I am not going to repeat what has been said, but it is true that this pathology remains rare. She's not well known enough. According to the studies carried out, it reaches both men and women between the ages of 50 and 70. This disease can develop very quickly. That is why there is a need for a very specific approach and a resolution had its full purpose. Belgium currently has three specialised centres that are recognised and have extensive expertise in the treatment of fibrosis. As long as clinical and scientific experience can be on hand, other specialized centres are likely to be considered. This is a request that is made to the government among the five recommendations proposed: 1. There is, of course, the recognition of specific centres of expertise, as I have just said; 2. Consideration should also be given to the financial means to support the multidisciplinary functioning of the centres of expertise, as it is known that this pathology must be managed by several health specialists; 3. Since there are only three centres, some costs are related to the patient's travel to these centres. We call on the government to take this into account and to provide the necessary means to address it; 4. Access to medication prescribed by a physician at a designated centre of expertise is known to remain a problem. Here too, there is a need for adaptation and some flexibility in relation to the extent of the pathology, certainly at the end of the cycle; 5. A model of transmural cooperation with first- and second-line partners is also called for, in consultation with the Communities, and therefore with local hospitals that collect these patients on the front line, who are diagnosed with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. We are convinced that there is a way to work very quickly on these five axes. That is why my colleagues and I are asking to be very attentive to this resolution which really makes sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u75	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u76	The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place later. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u77	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Benoit Hellings, Wouter De Vriendt, Muriel Gerkens, Jean-Marc Nollet, Georges Gilkinet, Evita Willaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u78	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2918/4) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2918/4) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Grovonius, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the World Cup in Russia is starting today. With this resolution, we would like to ask you to consider its consequences. How can it be that high-level sport is organised in countries where human rights are violated in a structural way, where people are discriminated against and war crimes are committed? Russia has annexed Crimea. It invaded Ukraine. These are all illegal actions under international law. Belgium and the EU have already complained about this. It shows some absurdity and hypocrisy when we condemn countries for their actions, but at the same time a country presents a football World Cup. That is something that cannot be done, and Belgium must not pretend to be bleeding, as if nothing is wrong. I would nevertheless like to list a number of facts which show that the human rights situation in the Russian Federation is appalling. Amnesty International is absolutely devastating and says that freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and freedom of association are deteriorating. People who take part in demonstrations against the government are persecuted and accused and some are tortured in prison. The World Cup has also been the subject of a joint training ban. It is clear that nothing must go wrong and that a propaganda circus must be set in motion. Internationally, Russia is criticised by the international community for the war crimes it is committing in Syria and the support of its ally, Syrian President Assad. According to the latest report by Sans Frontières report on freedom of the press, Russia is at the 148th place of a list of 180 countries in the field of free news gathering by journalists. The pressure on the independent press is increasing. President Putin is doing everything in his power to nip and restrict the public debate. In addition, there is violence against Holebi in several states of the Russian Federation. Three French Holebi associations have filed a complaint with the International Criminal Court. The illegal annexation of Crimea continues and human rights are violated on the peninsula itself. A report of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights of 25 September 2017 confirms that respect for human rights in Crimea has deteriorated after Russian annexation. Random arrests, detentions, tortures, even extrajudicial executions are not unusual. Moreover, it has recently been found that Russia can really be held responsible for the crash of flight MH17. The Netherlands has therefore formally held Russia liable. Belgium also lost six compatriots in that crash. Meanwhile, there is consensus that Russia is actually responsible for this. This country is now organizing the World Cup and we want to make it a problem. It is already very surprising that such countries are allocated the organisation of such top sporting events. Soon it will also be up to Qatar to organize a World Championship. What do we want? We do not want to stay away from the World Cup, but we want to actively use the platform that we will have there, with the mass media that will be present, to make statements, to criticize the way Russia deals with human rights, to show that it is not normal and will never be normal. We also want to encourage civil society in Russia. Once again, this is in line with Belgian and European diplomacy towards Russia. The way we behave with regard to the World Cup in Russia must be in line with our general approach to human rights. Recently there has been a lot to do around Damso. Football and top sport in general have an example function. The Football Association and the Belgian Government can also take a position on Russia in the context of the World Cup. Our proposal for a resolution was, of course, discussed in committee. Originally, we intended to ask the government to call on the Russian Government to make a significant improvement in the human rights and rights situation in the coming months and to draw attention to the harsh working conditions of the workers who have built the stadiums where all the national teams will be playing. We would also like to ask Belgian representatives, diplomats, federal ministers, members of the royal family who will be present at the 2018 World Cup ceremonies to be accompanied by representatives of Russian human rights organisations, syndicists and so on. The same applies to the matches of the Belgian national football team. We have just understood from our Foreign Minister that this will be the case for the match against Tunisia. One could use the TV cameras not just to support there, but also to make a clear statement. Our football association could put a registration number on the Belgian football players' competition in order to promote respect for human rights in general. There have been proposals from civil society to apply, for example, the rainbow colours to football equipment in a subtle way. This could start a debate and draw attention to this problem. A number of joint statements can be made from the football association. By the way, the fact that top athletes do something like that wouldn't be a scoop. Remember the American football players who in September of last year gave a sign of protest against President Trump's policy in a number of games during the American national anthem. That's the power of top sport. Top sport has the power to make people think and to attract a lot of attention to a particular problem in the media. We have tabled this resolution in order to bring about the same thing at the football World Cup in Russia. So Belgium certainly should not remain silent or away. It's much better to use the attention in a place where Putin hurts and that's right before the TV cameras of the world press. That's supposed to be the job. Unfortunately, the majority parties do not want to go that far. They have tabled an amendment to our text asking the Belgian federal government to have bilateral contacts in the margins of the World Cup in Russia and to denounce the human rights situation during these contacts. This is something, but we regret that some of our other proposals will fall. Nevertheless, we have tabled two amendments. A first amendment takes back our original proposals. We hope that colleagues will have been able to think again about these proposals and support our amendment to revert to the much stronger original text. A second amendment asks the federal government, if it does have contacts with the Russian colleagues, to keep a logbook of it, so that we are at least sure that there is effective dialogue with human rights organisations, that the necessary contacts are being made, that the promise made by Minister Reynders here just now does not remain empty promises, and that every effort is made to criticise the human rights situation in Russia. As I have just said, sport is not an island and sport has a social responsibility. Human rights are universal, as universal as football.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly refer to this motion for a resolution, a little in line with what I have said in committee. I often have a problem with the Green resolution proposals. As long as the explanatory statement remains and reads the analysis and description of the problem, there is little to be said of it, we agree with it and we do not want to add any amendments to it. We share most of that analysis and we are doing something about it. Remember the resolution on violence against the LGBTQI in Chechnya. Also remember that Minister Reynders strongly condemned that at the time. Also remember how Minister Reynders repeatedly raised human rights when he visited Saudi Arabia and Iran, among others. The same applies to the Prime Minister. He certainly did when he was in Russia. But in the recitals and requests, Green has the habit of going completely loose and dragging everything that doesn't always have to do with it. People are also asking for things that are simply impossible. We have no control over FIFA. That is an independent body, which also has rules, for example about what is allowed on a soccer sweater and what is not. We have little to say about what we want to do about it. We do not have a grip on the KBVB either. Green refers to Damso's World Cup song. Now, even then, we were able to see that when politics shows its teeth, nothing moves at all at the KBVB. Something does move, if Jupiler wants to withdraw his pennies; then the KBVB reacts. There is also the original question to Heads of State to invite people from civil society to the stands. In theory that's very nice, but in practice that's a bit weird. Nor are we in favour of fully politicising football. Colleague Van Peel once said in an interview that football is football and political. Nor do I think that people on the ground are helped by being associated with foreign heads of state from countries that are most likely not best friends with Russia. I suspect you're doing these people more harm than good. So yes, we have amended your questions and replaced them with the only question that is useful: Minister Reynders, if you are in Russia, trade as always, bring up human rights, possibly individual cases, and just do what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u81	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is imperative to be a member of the Council of Europe that we must respect the European Convention on Human Rights. Being a permanent member, and also a veto member, of the United Nations Security Council should imperatively involve being irreproachable in accordance with international and humanitarian law. Being a host country of international events such as a universal exhibition, the Olympic Games or the World Cup of football should absolutely involve respecting the values of peace, equality and the fight against any form of discrimination inherent in them. Of course, the Russian Federation seems to be becoming increasingly aware of the essential presuppositions that I have just listed. Yet it is in Russia that the World Cup of football will take place in the coming days, in which our Red Devils participate. The aim here is not to fall into an anti-Russian obsession or to take athletes hostage to essential political and diplomatic considerations. No, it is above all a question of not giving guarantees to states that violate our fundamental values. Worse, to give such states a varnish of normality. No human rights concession can be accepted. Soccer party can't be an alibi. The text before us today draws very precisely the same conclusions as my group has held on several occasions in the past. At the same forum, several months ago, my colleague Philippe Blanchart defended our unanimously adopted text on unacceptable violence against homosexuals in Chechnya and, more broadly, discrimination against LGBTQI in Russia. This repression does not stop at sexual minorities, as Amnesty International's symbolic action on Monday at the gates of the Russian Embassy in Brussels rightly reminds us that in this country, human rights defenders regularly put their lives at risk in order to defend these rights. Too many of them are in jail. Although FIFA has already alerted the Russian authorities that it would not tolerate any hindrance to the work of journalists on the ground, we are also aware of the precarious situation of the press in that country. The overall amendment tabled in committee by the majority has greatly shortened the text of our colleagues. The only request to the federal government today is therefore to continue to use bilateral contacts with Russia during the World Cup in order to constantly remind the Russian authorities of Belgium's criticisms of, in particular, human rights, the territorial integrity of Ukraine and the humanitarian situation in Syria. Our country must obviously take advantage of the diplomatic opportunity window. It would be incomprehensible if it were otherwise. We will therefore support this text. However, the debate is much more global than that of the 2018 World Cup in Russia. This has already been demonstrated by a similar debate under the previous legislature on a text that we tabled on the organization of the 2022 World Cup in Qatar. It had been adopted. Since then, FIFA has, for example, put in place a monitoring system for working conditions in stadiums, which shows that international pressure can bear fruit. This debate must, however, play a role between the sporting and the diplomatic-political aspects. We are indeed convinced that the total sporting boycott of such events would be totally counterproductive. If the organisation of an international event of this magnitude must be a lever to promote human dignity, including that of the workers who contribute to its success, it is up to politics to play this role. The ball is on our side, as is the responsibility. It is therefore not a question of postponing the consequences on the athletes concerned. Finally, the current situation, which leads us, on a case-by-case basis, to every international event, whether sporting or not, to fully justified denunciations of the situation of human rights, workers' rights and freedom of expression, must lead us to a much more comprehensive reflection. I'm sure of it. The House must therefore demonstrate its desire for a general approach and above all for an approach upstream of the selection of host countries for the organisations concerned, such as FIFA. Why should we always indignize ourselves a posteriori when events are already attributed to a particular country? The observance of strict criteria in this regard should be an integral part of the nominations for the organisation of these events. Values brought by events such as the World Cup and the Olympic Games are essential. However, they can only be fully realized when they take place in a country that fully respects these values at all times, otherwise they may appear as a dangerous precedent or slogan at the level of the international community.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, note our sense of timing: it is the day when the World Cup starts in Russia that our debates are held in plenary session. That's so good! Football gathers. It's a game and a sport. You're right. But football is also a huge machine that is used sometimes by private sponsors, sometimes by a power in place and a government, namely that of Russia, to promote the image of a regime that is anything but democratic. As Mr Crusnière said from the outset, our proposal was not aimed at sports boycott. It has never been said, in our mind, that the Red Devils do not participate in the World Cup of football, even if it takes place in a country that is problematic in terms of human rights. Nor is it a political boycott. We do not ask that ministers or members of the royal family refrain from supporting the Red Devils in Russia. We had promoted the simple idea that Belgian officials (royal family, federal or community ministers) should be accompanied by representatives of human rights associations. This was not accepted by the majority. Initially, we had two and a half pages of government requests articulated on a very comprehensive statement of reasons. Finally, there are only five or six lines of written requests by the majority, which makes me say that this motion for a resolution resembles the development cooperation budget between 2014 and today. Why did the majority siphon the proposal for a resolution from Ecolo-Groen? Because she's afraid to piss Putin off. These five or six lines don't mean anything! Russian power has methods. Russia's economic strength is not the same economic weight as Spain's, it is not even its military force, whatever it says, it is above all its propaganda. The World Cup in Russia is an act of propaganda to put Putin back at the heart of the debate, at the heart of the concert of nations. The method that we proposed to you was to combat this propagandistic force by an original act, the one that I have just exposed. At least in this way we could have confronted Russian power with its actions. In terms of human rights, the defence of minorities, whether ethnic or sexual, it must be admitted that it is difficult to imagine a more problematic country. We must also count on Russia's extremely problematic role in the Middle East, Syria, but also in Ukraine and, in particular, Crimea. That is why we have tabled two amendments. Mr. De Vriendt referred to the second amendment. As far as I am concerned, I shall extend a little bit to the first amendment that we have tabled. The purpose of the motion is to reintroduce the various original requests contained in our motion for a resolution, simply to match the latter's explanatory statement with the requests to the government. I know that this proposal will pass with a large majority with almost no requests. We can, at least, by this resolution that we will almost all vote, call on the Red Devils. It is true that we are not competent to ask the Red Devils anything. But how many resolutions have we not voted here to call on any private, associative or even federated body to act in one direction or the other? I recall that the resolution on Saudi Arabia related to requests to federated entities, for example, to stop delivering weapons to that problematic country. We could ask that certain bodies such as the Belgian Football Union or FIFA act in one direction or another because football is also political. I appeal here to the Red Devils: the day they wear this World Cup that I hope they win, I hope they can make a gesture, as their American colleagues, football players, have done in the past to denounce Trump's policy. This time, our Red Devils will do so to denounce Putin's extremely violent policies in Russia.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u83	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are looking at this proposal almost at the minute when the World Cup in Russia opens. This event constitutes, first and foremost, the celebration of sport bringing together all continents, uniting the supporters of the teams in a spirit that must be of fraternity and sportiness. Football as such is not and cannot be a political event. In fact, if we had to organize the World Cups in the countries that are totally democratic, I think it would still be the 25 countries that would organise this event. However, of course, we cannot ignore the location of the World Cup and the political and international context. Russia has violated the rules of international law concerning Crimea. The competition does not erase these past gestures. Moreover, it is no exaggeration to say that minorities, whether ethnic, religious or sexual, are disproportionately targeted in Russia. The aim of this motion for a resolution is therefore important because the human rights situation in the Russian Federation is getting worse every day, despite what Count Tolstoy said on the radio this morning. You probably heard him. However, we consider that the means proposed to achieve this objective are not the most appropriate. Thus, it is not appropriate to involve in any way the members of our royal family in this debate. Assigning a political role to the players of the Belgian selection would not be opportune either. While strong acts sometimes emanate from sporting competitions, they are the subject of individual initiatives, often spontaneous, rather than plans prepared by governments. In conclusion, we must be vigilant about the smooth running of this World Cup. If the high level of media coverage of cases related to this subject, such as the imprisonment of Ukrainian journalist Oleg Sentsov or human rights defender Oyoub Titiev, makes it possible to move their cases forward, we can only rejoice. But we believe that the basic resolution, laudable in these objectives, and that we share in its philosophy, does not use the right means.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u84	Mr President, I imagine we are waiting for the result of our votes in six minutes because the opening ceremony and the first game will take place in a few moments. This moment being very important, I will be very brief. FIFA is listening. It seems interesting to me to send a signal in relation to the situation in Russia. As you know, our group is very worried about political developments in Russia. I am a resolute opponent of Mr Putin's policy and have denounced it on a number of occasions. This is not just about the issue of human rights, because, curiously, the resolution is a little stalemate on other equally serious issues, such as the illegal military occupation of Georgia or Moldova or the fact that Russia has opposed Security Council resolutions on Syria twelve times. On the other hand, and the Defence Minister confirmed it in committee yesterday, there is also the fact that Russia is trying to threaten our own electoral processes, which is particularly worrying because they are the foundations of our democracy. This signal is interesting, though a little weak. The general amendment of the majority is weak. We can say that. We're going through some open doors. But it has at least the interest and the advantage of addressing the Foreign Minister whose role is to defend our interests and to worry about current developments in Russia. However, we will not vote in favour of the amendment tabled by Ecolo. Indeed, we believe that there is a confusion of the genres, which surprises me. When football players are asked to make political statements, to wear armbands, to change their clothes and equipment, they are asked to violate FIFA rules. If they do, they'll be excluded from the football field. I find it rather curious to ask footballers to play the role that we have to play as parliamentarians, or that our representatives and ministers have to play in Russia. You may recall that I was very critical of the Prime Minister's mission to Russia, finding that it was not in an appropriate framework and format, that it was not sufficiently coordinated with the Foreign Minister who visited Moscow some time later, and that the language elements that had been used by our Prime Minister were not appropriate. Here, footballers are played a role that is not theirs. Attention should be paid to this. Footballers have a very different role than ours, which is very important to many people. That should not prevent us from recalling the situation in Russia. We have additional diplomatic efforts to make to ensure that the situation in Russia does not continue to deteriorate. I hope that our political representatives, when they go to Moscow, will be committed to defending human rights and our political positions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u85	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is a great day for football lovers, a moment eagerly awaited for all those who see in the World Cup the opportunity to meet, share and support his country. This is particularly the case in our country, where Red Devils games are an opportunity for all our fellow citizens to come together. Unfortunately, the huge success of football has become a source of drift. One of them is the corruption that allows countries that do not meet FIFA's criteria to obtain despite everything the hosting and organisation of the World Cup football. Among these criteria are respect for human rights. FIFA is committed to taking appropriate measures to protect them, including by using its ability to influence the competent authorities. Many campaigns have also been conducted in recent years to say no to racism through advertising spots or jerseys worn by the stars of the round ball. Despite this awareness, we have been forced to accept that the 2018 Football World Cup is being played in the Russian Federation, despite the numerous human rights violations that occur there every day, violations that the text of the motion for a resolution quotes with great accuracy. Knowing that we cannot be insensitive to it, without advocating a boycott that would be more than counterproductive, my party supports the approach of the authors of the proposal to ask the government to consider the World Cup as a diplomatic lever for greater respect for human rights in Russia. International organizations such as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International have themselves understood that this sporting event should be seen as an opportunity to draw citizen and political attention to the repression and violation of human rights in Russia. In recent days, for example, reports and articles on the working conditions of workers on the construction sites around the stadiums, on the liquidation of stray dogs, on the expropriation of inhabitants and on the damaged streets left abandoned by successive construction sites are no longer available. The World Cup of football allowed us to open our eyes to the drifts of a regime ready to do anything to organize an event to the glory of its head of state frankly re-elected for the best but also, more than often, for the worst. The ambition of the text proposed by my colleagues was therefore commensurate with the diplomatic work that the government must provide during this World. I regret that in committee, the choice of the majority was to amend the many requests to the government to replace them with a single request in very general terms. The diplomatic impact of this text will certainly be less than that of the initial requests. With this text, our country is in a position to convey to Russia its criticisms of human rights, but also to express its opinion on its involvement in Ukraine and Syria. That is why my group will support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u86	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, although I can share some of the concerns about the situation in Russia, I consider that this motion for a resolution contains too many disparate and highly questionable elements. Not only have recommendations already been the subject of other motions for resolutions, but I find it inappropriate and ineffective to combine the powers of our government with those of international organizations such as FIFA. Moreover, I am surprised that you refer to the ranking of Reporters Without Borders on press freedom in which Russia is ranked 148th out of 180 because states that you defend regularly and with virulence in this House, such as Palestine, rank 134th or Turkey at 157th and Cuba at 172nd. What is the credit for this ranking? Or you are totally inconsistent and objective with other states. You also rely on this report, which denounces state propaganda carried by the great patriotic and ultra-conservative television media. Colleagues, here in Belgium, what space for debate is reserved for the parties that you wish to call populists? None! The difference here is that the left and the progressives, they are the ones who cadenade these spaces. In the follow-up to your developments, I think you are acting correctly using the conditional but boldly in substance because, to date, nothing has been formally and definitively established, either by the Justice or by the international community, on the possible involvement of Putin's regime in the treatment of the LGBTI community or in the Malaysia Airlines case. In your recommendations, you regularly refer to human rights. This is a good thing, but I see that in your developments you are flouting them lightly when it comes to the presumption of innocence, and in particular when you say that this global sporting competition has been attributed to Russia on the basis of corruption. I shall therefore raise two points. On the one hand, you say that racism is very present in the Russian stadiums. No doubt! But in Belgium, maybe not? And what do we do? On the other hand, you are talking about the deplorable working conditions in the construction of Russian stadiums. You even refer to the term "migrants". Everyone will understand that this is becoming an obsession with you. But let's go back to the construction workers. They are probably the same people who regularly come to work in Western Europe, either because of or because of the social dumping that this same Western Europe cannot or does not want to resolve. In conclusion, Mr President, I shall vote against this proposal because I believe that it is based on far too many approximations and, in particular, on reports from very left-wing organisations whose ideology is slightly above reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u87	Mr President, I would like to reply briefly to Mrs Capoen's point. It is true that we are asking the federal government to make a number of requests to the football association and to FIFA. They are of course involved in the organisation and in our country's intervention at the World Cup in Russia. However, it is not right that such requests should be impossible. After all, you remember the government's ruling on the rapper Damso who was put forward by the football association as a role model. In fact, I think it was Alexander De Croo who made it quite clear here in Parliament that there could be no question of this for the government. In other words, a government can act on certain decisions taken by FIFA or the football association. That is precisely the subject of this resolution, namely asking the government to make such statements and take up such a position. In the final analysis, we want the same thing, and hopefully all of us, namely that it is not clear that such sporting events will continue in such countries. We have effectively proposed a number of actions which are, as it were, undressed by the majority parties. Nevertheless, it is important that the government, in the person of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has the necessary contacts during his visit to Russia, not only with his colleague but also with the Russian human rights organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u88	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. * * * * * * * Amendments tabled:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u89	Request 1/Demand 1 • 2 - Wouter De Vriendt cs (2918/5) • 3 - Wouter De Vriendt cs (2918/6) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u90	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u91	Mr President, earlier on today's issues, a Member of this Parliament thought he was allowed to use the word "nigger" in his speech. I would like to ask you, Mr President, that this insult, as degrading as it is displaced in a chamber like ours, be removed from the record of our plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u92	That word will be deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u93	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the following draft law: draft law establishing a central point of contact for accounts and financial contracts and extending access to the central file of messages of attachment, delegation, transfer, collective debt settlement and protest, No. 3114/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the following bill was tabled: Bill to organize a central point of contact for financial accounts and contracts and to extend access to the central file of notices of seizure, delegation, assignment, collective settlement of debts and protest, No. 3114/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u94	Colleagues, the purpose of this bill is to organize a central point of contact for financial accounts and contracts. This bill, called CAP 2.0, implements the central bank register and, above all, the Fifth Anti-Money washing Directive (AML). The urgency is justified by the fact that ICT developments under this bill will take 12 to 18 months. The banking and insurance sector will then benefit from a further period of 6 months to also make the ICT adaptations. That is why, according to the rules of good administration, the authorities must act with all due diligence. The government is asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u95	Mr President, I note that this draft was adopted unanimously in committee yesterday afternoon. So the urgency is no longer really necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u96	Mr Van Rompuy, one thing does not prevent the other. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u97	The Government also requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the following draft law: draft law on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, No 3126/1. The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the following bill was tabled: draft law on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data, nr. 3126/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u98	I thank the Finance Committee for moving faster than the urgency. This is a draft law implementing Regulation 2016/679 on data protection and transposing Directive 2016/680 on the processing of data for criminal purposes, known as the Police Justice Directive. The Regulation entered into force on 25 May 2018, the Directive was due to be transposed by 5 May 2018. Belgium is therefore lagging behind with regard to the European deadline. Although transitional arrangements have been made to ensure that there is no legal vacuum after 25 May, this should not be an argument to allow even more delay. Although operational, this provision does not ensure robustness as the law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority (PAD) and the framework law that is presented to you. The majority showed openness in particular by facilitating the holding of hearings and by taking the necessary steps to provide written opinions from the various advisory bodies. With the good will of everyone, I am convinced that a high-quality legislative framework can be quickly achieved that will best protect citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u99	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u100	The Government also requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the following draft law: draft law on accessibility of the websites and mobile applications of public authorities, No 3159/1. The government also called for urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the following bill was introduced: Bill on the accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector organizations, nr. 3159/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u101	Mr President, this draft transposes the provisions of Directive 2016/2102 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 on the accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies. The aim of this project is to oblige public authorities to take the necessary measures to make their websites and mobile applications accessible by making them perceptible, operable, understandable and robust. The urgency is justified as it concerns the transposition of a European Directive, which should be transposed into national law by 23 September 2018 at the latest. If this bill is not approved before 21 July 2018 in the plenary session of the Chamber, Belgium risks paying a fine for late transposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u102	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u103	I have a question for the Minister. If I'm not mistaken, the item will be on the agenda next Tuesday. Has the text already been published by the government and communicated to Parliament for information? It is a matter of urgency to deal with a text on Tuesday, but the Members of this House have no knowledge of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u104	It has been published, Mr Geerts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u105	Mr Bonte has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u106	Mr President, I would like to ask for urgent consideration of legislative proposal No. 2457. That's a very simple bill. It wants to introduce the rule that, in the event of temporary or temporary release of detainees, with penitentiary leave or other, Justice and the prison system inform the local police services about this, especially after the incident with Benjamin Herman, which has been discussed in detail here. Today, that manifesto was discussed in a press article from Antwerp. I am sorry to say that the legislative proposal is gathering dust and we can expect almost weekly incidents if this is not regulated by law. Hence the question to colleagues about the urgency of the legislative proposal to introduce an information requirement for those responsible for penitentiary facilities when terrorist fighters are released.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u107	Mr. Bonte, I need some help on my way. After all, I do not see that proposal in the list of proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u108	Mr President, that is correct. It's been filed a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u109	Then it's too late. The urgency must be called upon to consider it. It seems that consideration has taken place a long time ago. All you can do is ask the committee itself that the proposal be dealt with as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u110	Mr President, it has already been done that the legislative proposals tabled have been declared urgent by the plenary and thus reached the top of the agenda. However, I will check that this is in line with the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u111	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 June 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the proposal (Mr Peter De Roover) to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives to set up a parliamentary committee responsible for the legislative review, No. 3130/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u112	- the legislative proposal (Mrs Ine Somers cs) amending the law of 22 August 2002 on the rights of patients with a view to drawing up an official model "health certificate" and the possibility of registering it through the municipality, No. 3158/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u113	- the legislative proposal (Mrs Nahima Lanjri) amending the Code of Private International Law as regards the recognition of foreign marriages with minors in the context of the fight against child marriages, No. 3160/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u114	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 June 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal (Mr. Peter De Roover) to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives with a view to establishing a Parliamentary Committee for Legislative Monitoring, No. 3130/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u115	- the proposal for a law (Ms. Ine Somers et al.) amending the Law of 22 August 2002 on the rights of the patient with a view to establishing an official model of advance health-care declaration and allowing it to be registered with the municipality, No. 3158/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u116	- the bill (Ms. Nahima Lanjri) amending the Code of Private International Law with regard to the recognition of foreign marriages involving minors in the fight against child marriages, No. 3160/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u117	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u118	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (2741/5) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (2741/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u119	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Wouter De Vriendt cs on request No. 1. (2918/5) Vote on amendment No 2 by Wouter De Vriendt cs at request No 1. (2918/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[22]] Yes No. 92 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mrs Caprasse voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Wouter De Vriendt cs on request No. 1. (2918/6) Vote on amendment No 3 by Wouter De Vriendt cs at request No 1. (2918/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u120	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u121	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 130 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (2918/7) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (2918/07) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-14-54-plenair-ip233x.u122	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 21 June 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 21 June 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 21 June 2018, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 21 June 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
