ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 December 2018, I would like to present you on this afternoon's agenda. 1) to write down the following points: - items 3 to 14 of the draft agenda. - budgets, with the exception of resource and expenditure budgets. - the draft Financial Act for the financial year 2019, Nos 3432/1 to 4. - the Rules of Procedure of the Data Protection Authority, No. 3420/1. - the nomination of a French-speaking State Council (Council of State). (2) delete the oral questions;
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u3	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 December 2018, I propose: 1) to include in this afternoon's agenda the following items: - items 3 to 14 of the draft agenda. - budgets, with the exception of the Ways and Means budget and the Expenditure budget. - the Finance Bill for the 2019 budget year, n°s 3432/1 to 4. - the Rules of Procedure of the Data Protection Authority, No. 3420/1. - the presentation of a French-speaking Council of State. 2) to delete oral questions;
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u4	Are you sure you don't mind? Pas d'observation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u5	Mr President, I honestly do not understand what is happening here. There were a lot of drafts and proposals on Tuesday and Wednesday's agenda, but they were all taken off the agenda. What is the criterion for the issues we are discussing here?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u6	We took the decision at the Conference of Presidents to preserve everything that was on the agenda yesterday, yesterday and today. Of course, two things are excluded, in particular the budget and the oral questions. Both points have dropped. Everything else has remained on the agenda and we will pay due attention to it. I do not have to tell you that it is not because it is on the agenda, that it will also be adopted. We shall see how the Chamber will give its opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u7	Mr President, I would just like to make it clear that the Conference of Presidents can only decide unanimously to change the agenda. That unanimity was not found yesterday. That does not mean that some people did not argue yesterday in the spirit of Mr Vuye.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u8	For the record, there was unanimity. There was unanimity on the agenda. We will therefore follow him as agreed. We'll do what's agreed. We will deal with the agenda, starting with the discussion of the four drafts relating to the victims of terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u9	Mr President, I do not appreciate that my colleague from the N-VA, as I understand it, seems to indicate that there was no unanimity in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u10	No, I don't. We needed unanimity, otherwise there would have been no agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u11	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u12	Mr President, as you know, we are not represented at the Conference of Presidents. Generally, we are notified the week following the plenary session. In relation to Mr. De Roover has just said, I would like to know whether the N-VA, in the Conference of Presidents, has supported the agenda proposed to us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u13	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u14	I do not understand Mr. From Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u15	Mr Van Hees, I urge everyone to know that you too are informed as soon as the decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u16	On the agenda, yes, but not on the whole Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u17	Mr President, you say that the unrecognised groups are informed about this. Sometimes it can be. But we will receive the report from the Conference of Presidents at the earliest on Monday. It rarely happens on Fridays. I can assure you that I found nothing on the website this morning and that we ourselves went to the services of the Registry, where we were given the agenda at 10.55 p.m. I see the clerk shaking no, but we did go to the service at 10:55.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u18	We will not begin the discussion on this. I am assuming that this is important to say that, following the decision of the Conference of Presidents, it was immediately passed on to the political groups that are not represented in the conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u19	Mr President, I want the information provided to the other Members of Parliament to be correct. After the meeting of the Conference of Presidents, we received an e-mail with a link to the website. At that time, oral questions were still on the website. Only after my group has been informed was it informed by e-mail that no oral questions were raised. I do not personally blame you, that is not personally attributable to you, but the flow of information was, to say the least, chaotic.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u20	The situation is in itself chaotic, which was reflected on the website, where it was indeed necessary to put things right. I suggest that we do not continue this discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u21	Mr President, I rise to make sure that colleagues understand what sauce we are eaten when we are not yet a group. We usually receive the minutes in S+1, a week later, that is, when everything is already over. We find out in the minutes what happened in the past. It's always nice! In this case, a link was sent to a website, but I guess no one understood the number of small danger triangles everywhere. Even the services of the House have confirmed the lack of clarity. As a result, we have been obliged to review everything this morning. Would it therefore be possible to request that we be called at the end of the meeting to communicate orally to us all that was decided at the Conference of Presidents? That's the least I can do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u22	That seems to me to be a very constructive point. We will do the same from the next session. So we'll call you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u23	Mr President, I think these are all very useful discussions, but they can be better oriented towards the coffee room bar. I suggest that we proceed to the order of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u24	I will do the same, Mr Vandeput. Are there any further objections to the change of agenda? Thus shall be done. That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u25	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these draft laws. I propose that you devote one discussion to these bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u26	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u27	Mr President, I refer to my written report. I would like to speak directly with my party.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u28	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we can never forget the date of March 22, 2016, which almost makes a fall of government annoyed. On that day, Belgium lived one of the darkest pages in its recent history. Two years after the attack on the Jewish Museum, terrorist insanity once again struck Brussels. Dozens of women and men were affected by the most cowardly, terrible and unjust acts of violence. Recent news has reminded us that the terrorist threat has not disappeared. Interpol's boss has just reminded us of this today. All over the world, terrorism strikes and, closer to home, on 11 December, indiscriminate violence hit the Christmas market in Strasbourg. We have reviewed these same images, those of a desolate city, filled with stupor and incomprehension. We have heard these same testimonies, mixed with deep sadness and anger. We were moved by the ceremonies of homage and by the expression of these collective emotions and solidarity that continue, despite the pain, to give us faith in the future. In these circumstances, in the face of such events, there is an absolute urgency for the State. This emergency, in addition to security measures, is one of caring for and accompanying the victims. The State must quickly, effectively and dignifiedly take charge of those who, throughout their lives, bear the stigmas of this barbarism in their bodies and souls. For this is the very reason for our rule of law. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we must now recognize that in this area our state, collectively, has failed. On 22 March, we were not sufficiently prepared to meet the needs of the victims of a large-scale attack. The Attentats Committee, set up following the attacks of 22 March - in which several colleagues here and I sat for many months - was able to see this. We have tried to work in tribute to the victims in a spirit of consensus. All of them, I am quite sure, have been unanimously voted on. We received the victims' associations, which explained to us their difficulties and the lack of consideration they felt, rightly or wrongly, from the State. They told us their sense of abandonment, explained the complexity of the current system and expressed their desire to relive, with every new expertise, the suffering of the attack, as well as their ras-le-bol to have to justify their distress and burn-out before, in particular, representatives of insurance companies sometimes questioning the consequences of the attack. An attack, ladies and gentlemen, is an act directed against the State. It is therefore his responsibility to manage the assistance and support of victims, taking responsibility for their compensation. However, since 22 March, this resigned government and this majority have for too long left this management in the hands of private insurers, who are actors guided by a logic of profitability. This mode of operation leaves too little room for the fundamental need for humanity and dignity of the victims. To put an end to this revolting situation, I repeat, the Attentats Committee unanimously adopted recommendations in order to entrust the authorities with the legal means to act and to deal with it. Having received many Belgian and foreign experts, we realized that it was necessary to examine policies in neighbouring countries and to draw on a rather extraordinary model, that of France. A simple idea, supported by victims' associations: create a guarantee fund with unique expertise to fully, quickly and equitably compensate victims of attacks. It is this fund that subsequently turns to insurance on behalf of the victims. So we no longer have this situation from the pot of earth to the pot of iron. It is the state with all its power in the face of assurances. Far from these recommendations, far from what victims' associations are asking for, this minority government has taken another path, another path. Yes, in this bill and, fortunately, there are some important advances for the victims of attacks - that is why my group, in particular, wanted it to be placed on the agenda. I am thinking, for example, of better reimbursement of certain trips or of an increase in emergency aid. That's not negligible. On reading the drafts, however, there is an impression that we are going to miss out on the bill, that we are going to make a system that is already illegible even more complex, that we are going to encourage the increase in medical expertise which will only have the effect of reviving once again the memory of the attacks among the victims and, above all, that of irremediably moving away from what the members of the Attentats Commission together advocate, but also, and above all, the victims' associations. You have decided to entrust the fate of the victims to insurance and to release yourself from your responsibility. We know, another way was possible. Some here will remember what happened with the tragedy of Ghislenghien, with his victims who lived in their flesh this very large-scale accident. Immediately after the Ghislenghien accident, we developed a system that allowed the state to compensate everything directly, to take care of everything. Why didn't you take this route? Why did you deny the demands of victims' associations? Why did you leave these victims in the hands of insurance? That is really the fundamental question I am asking you today. Of course, our dialogue allowed for some minor adjustments and, at the last sitting of the commission, at the end of the race, the Minister of Justice promised to take a step towards recognition - because it was not even in the bill - of associations of victims. I hope that he will be able to do so even in times of day-to-day business if that is the sovereign's decision. This was one of the advances that we have been able to achieve, but for the rest, I say and repeat that this project is not up to the recognition of the tragedy experienced by the victims, that your philosophy is contrary to that which we have advocated in the Attentats Committee, particularly with the support of an extraordinary expert, Professor Martens, who has helped us all these months. One of the advantages of day-to-day business, if that is the case, is perhaps to be able to escape the Peeters project, which was worse than what we have on the table. [[Indeed, this text is: nothing by the State, everything towards insurance.]] This is totally unacceptable. That's what I wanted to tell you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. We are repositioning with virtually all the opposition and perhaps, I hope, some who could join us today, amendments that comply with the recommendations of the Attentats Committee, which make it possible to create a genuine guarantee fund. It is also a means of combating terrorism to help those who are victims of an attack with dignity. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is high time that we finally lived up to the expectations that the victims place in us all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u30	Mr President, it is almost three years since our country was hit by the attacks in Zaventem and Maalbeek. Following these attacks, a committee of inquiry was set up, in which we worked very hard on a number of issues: emergency aid, security architecture, victim status and radicalism. We have come to a hundred recommendations in committee with the aim of making our society of tomorrow better, safer, fairer and fairer. We are therefore pleased that we are implementing the recommendations with this draft, which represents an important step forward for the victims. These drafts will make important changes to the procedures for dealing with the victims of terrorism and will improve the functioning of the Financial Aid Commission to Victims of Intentional Violence and to the Occasional Saviors. Procedures will be adapted, improved, speeded up and simplified. There's gonna be a one-of-a-kind window. An important question from the victims will eventually become a reality through implementation through this design. Victims who do not have a Belgian nationality will no longer be left in the cold. They are also granted a status of national solidarity, accompanied by a number of advantages. No design is, of course, perfect, as the opposition said. We have come a long way with this draft. Professor Martens, a very good expert who accompanied our committee at the time of the Committee of Inquiry, has shed light on the draft before us regarding the implementation of the committee's recommendations. He said that the draft was a major step forward for the victims and that the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry were also respected. I believe that this is an important step forward. Nothing is perfect, of course, and we can take another step. However, I believe that it is also important to take this step today. I therefore believe that it is a good thing to approve this bill because it represents an important step forward for the victims of the attacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u31	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that 22 March 2016 has made many people victims for life. We have witnessed the tragedy that has happened to them in committee during many hearings and in contact with a number of victims. If we could, we would all like to delete these black pages. Unfortunately, this is impossible. During the hearings, it became very clear, and Mrs Onkelinx has a point there, that our legislation is not based on a comprehensive compensation scheme for victims of terrorist attacks, which allows compensation to be paid in the same place for all the damage suffered by victims. We have indeed found that victims, who have to live day after day with their injuries, must also look for a puzzle of the various possibilities for compensation provided for by different laws. I have noted that within the government a number of ministers immediately joined the team and sought a solution. Let's think about the recovery pension. However, this does not alter the fact that it is difficult for the victims to obtain full compensation. Reading the legislation together insurance on the one hand, the recovery pension on the other, finding assistance and being helped in finding and reading all these different rules is not easy. Legal assistance by someone with expertise in this field, including medical expertise to cover human damage, is, in my view, very important. It is to your credit, Minister, that you immediately implemented the committee's recommendations, taking into account the state of the legislation. These regulations were incomplete at the time of the attacks. It's too bad, but that was the reality. Today, solutions must be sought to enable the victims to lay the puzzle. The legislation that will be amended today, on the assistance that can be obtained through the Victims' Fund, is once again an important step, which does not prevent us from doing better in the future. Mrs Onkelinx has a point, we cannot talk about majority and opposition in this matter, because the Chamber makes unanimous recommendations in this regard. We must ensure that there is a comprehensive compensation scheme, whereby an application, if necessary, can be made at one and the same place and where any damage of any kind, of any kind, can be paid in full. A guarantee fund, if any, should then turn to the insurance companies and third parties who are liable and should pay the claims. That does not alter the fact that what is before the victims of terrorist attacks today is an important, welcome and requested help. During the discussions in committee, Minister, you committed yourself to the recognition by royal decree of the victims who were very important to the victims. Often these are the only instance where they can get support and help in their difficult search. You'd do that by royal decree. I know that we are in a very difficult situation today, but I would ask you to do everything possible to achieve this recognition in a very short time. I would also like to invite you, if necessary, to come to the committee with such a royal decision and ask for Parliament's support. I assume that we will support these drafts unanimously. I assume that the Chamber can also unanimously support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u32	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 22 March 2016, Belgium was undoubtedly a little devoid of the human consequences of the attacks. We weren't prepared enough. Responses were put in place at that time to meet the legitimate needs of victims. But, unfortunately, the system has shown all its flaws. Of course, we are very sorry about the victims. Since then, the Government has worked to try to improve, at all levels, the gaps that have been found in the assistance and compensation of victims of terrorist acts, but also to respond more humanely and effectively to the specific needs of these victims. As you explained in the Justice Committee, Minister, the option has been taken to make tangible improvements to the existing system. We didn't change everything at once. We wanted to improve what existed, which obviously does not close the door to improvements in the future. Much has been said, particularly during hearings, about the effectiveness of the French system. You have also had the opportunity to highlight some flaws in this system. We're well aware that no system is perfect. What we often try to do, at least it must be a good practice in law, is comparative law, i.e. to look for good practices in the legal systems of neighbouring countries, to avoid making mistakes or having some unfortunate delays in this particular matter. Among the undeniable improvements are the ceilings for urgent aid and the main aid granted by the Commission for financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence. These are doubled. It's not nothing. Furthermore, the victim of an act of terrorism must no longer initiate or have a procedure completed in order to be able to benefit from the main aid. Finally, a national solidarity statute has been created and the possibility of receiving a compensation pension under certain conditions has been created. The draft which is being submitted today to our plenary also sees other positive elements: an advance of EUR 125 000 can be granted to a victim of terrorist acts, regardless of his financial situation. The emergency is presumed ex officio. It's an important element. The procedure before the Commission is speeded up. Various items of damage are foreseen: legal fees, travel expenses and living expenses. A procedure is set up to make the provisions of the Act of 18 July 2017 on the creation of the status of national solidarity, the granting of a compensation pension and the reimbursement of care following terrorist acts applicable to non-resident victims of terrorist acts. In addition to these new provisions, there are elements that have been put forward by the Terrorism Commission and which are being implemented. First of all, there is the establishment of the one-stop shop. It is obvious that, when one is a victim, one has the frustration of having to take many steps towards different administrative authorities. It's hard. You explained why it was late. Our country's organization means that several levels of power need to be coordinated. I don't throw the stone at anyone. The reality is that we are almost in the process of finalizing this one-stop shop, which will facilitate the lives of victims in the steps to be taken. Another key element is expertise. As has often been recalled, it is terribly frustrating to have to repeat sometimes five or six times the same thing; to have to submit to five or six expertises for the same problem. This element has also been taken into account. My conclusion is also my introduction: unfortunately, there will never be a perfect system for victims, including terrorist acts, when it comes to trying to help them resume their lives before or as before. But it is vital for our country to hear the suffering of the victims and to provide answers, despite the difficulties facing Parliament today. I would also like to thank all the groups for allowing this project to be put on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 22 March is a date that we must never forget. The same applies to all the innocent victims. Immediately after the attacks, the government, the Minister of Justice in particular, took the bull by the horns and made improvements to our regulations. The limits of financial aid were immediately raised with great sensitivity, including those of emergency aid. The draft laws now before us follow that path. They focus on the problems faced by the victims after the attacks. These problems were explained during the hearings in the parliamentary committee of inquiry. Many of these concerns are now addressed in the draft laws before us. This will speed up procedures, increase advances and make it easier to accept urgency. There will also be additional allowances for all kinds of expenses such as lawyers' fees and accommodation and travel expenses. There are also indirect victims and victims who do not have Belgian nationality. Colleagues, is that all solved? No. Have all the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry been fulfilled? No. But with these draft laws, in any case, the government, in consultation with the victim associations, responded to many of these comments. The work is therefore not finished, it still needs to be continued. This is not only the work of the federal legislator but also of the Communities and of the judiciary, in particular the federal court. Of course, this is also the work of the federal regulator. I know that there were texts in preparation, which meant improvements for the victims, such as one-stop shop and the one-off of expertise. Those who have experience in the management and handling of victims' files, albeit of common law or terrorist acts, know that the bottleneck often lies in the expertise and assessments. In application of the law on terrorism, insurers are given a role in funding, but the government and the Commission for Financial Aid to Victims of Intentional Violence still have an important role to play. This committee has a great deal of expertise. Moreover, the hearings have shown that the victims have also appreciated her good work. Let that expertise and talent that is present be maximized. Let us work together on the recommendations that need further action. Even in these difficult political circumstances, it must be possible to make improvements before the end of the legislature. Our group is reaching out to the other political groups and the government so that we can reach a consensus in agreement and make progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u34	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 22 March 2016 is indeed a date to never forget. A date that led to urgent action, and that has come to pass. The four draft laws before us implement part of the recommendations of the investigation report on terrorist attacks. These draft laws will improve the situation of the victims of terrorism in terms of financial aid and long-term criminal investigations. The reform of the Commission for Financial Aid to the Victims of Intentional Violence is the guiding principle of these four draft laws. We can support a lot of things. I am thinking, for example, of the maximum advance, which will be increased again and will amount to EUR 125 000. There will be a separate Terror Division within the Commission for Financial Aid to the Victims of Intentional Violence. The procedures will become more transparent and the applications will be dealt with more quickly by a single judge. The victims must no longer prove the urgency. Each application will be considered urgent. In the case of victims of terrorism, an additional allowance is provided for attorney fees, up to a maximum of EUR 12 000. To this end, the Order of Lawyers will establish a list of lawyers who are specialists in this field. The travel and subsistence costs of victims of terrorism will now be reimbursed up to EUR 6 000. The upper limit for funeral and procedural expenses had already been raised. The draft law also provides for compensation for material costs for indirect victims, such as family members. The Victims' Fund will also provide compensation for foreign victims who are not helped by a similar fund in their country or by their insurance, including recovery pension and medical costs. The last draft, too, we consider to be very important. It provides for a settlement for the victims of cold cases, for example the Gang of Nivelles, for whom a damage claim will be set up. For the victims of intentional acts of violence, exceptional damage can be recognised if the criminal investigation takes longer than ten years and remains uncertain about the identity of the offender as well as about the motives. At the committee meeting we approved the draft laws. However, we have also signed some of Mr Onkelinx's amendments. She was right to ask questions about the situation of future victims. We too would have preferred to see a better and more performant system, as exists in France, where there is also a central reference person, where victims of acts of terrorism can go. This was, moreover, at the request of the victims' associations. Of course, we are also in favour of approving these amendments. Several amendments have already been adopted in committee on the basis of the recommendations and questions of the victims and the honorary President of the Constitutional Court, Mr Paul Martens. However, the scheme could be even better. The regulation is necessary and what is now before it is much better than what used to be. In short, we have taken the right path. However, we want to go even further, and I and my group are very pleased that many members of other groups of both the opposition and the coalition, if I may say so, want to go further with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it will soon be three years since the attacks in Zaventem and Maalbeek hit our country. That was almost three years ago, and today we have a number of texts here to improve aid to victims of acts of terrorism. Today, at the time when we are discussing the texts, we are also starting the assemblage process against the perpetrators of the attacks on the Jewish Museum. It is sometimes suggested that things are going very slowly in the area of justice. We can also make that statement today. However, we must also note that the legislative process is not always rapid either. After all, we are almost three years after the attacks today. When the commemorations are due on 22 March 2019, we can already predict that there will again be criticism among the victim associations, which is actually justified. After all, it's all going way too slow. We have had a parliamentary committee of inquiry which has made many recommendations which have been unanimously adopted in that committee. There were also recommendations to improve the status of victims and to improve the framework, support and assistance for victims. During the work of the Committee of Inquiry, promises were made in response to very emotional hearings with victims which showed that they actually remained in the cold for months. The government, all of us, have failed to provide sufficient support and assistance to the victims of these acts of terror. Colleagues, Minister, our allies are certainly not the insurance companies. When we read the letters received by the victims of the insurance company or the accident insurance company, we have to note that the victims are just a number. The only objective of insurance companies is to try to escape payout. If they cannot escape, their goal is to keep the payout as low as possible. However, that is not the attitude we must adopt when people are faced with such great suffering, which has a very great impact on their private lives but also on their working lives, with all the financial consequences. We're three years later now. Many legislative initiatives have already been taken. However, there is a great lack of coherence. This has also been pointed out a few times. Various amendments have been made to various legislations with many references to other legislations. No cat will find his boy in there. It's very complex. It will be a legal cacophony, also for the lawyers. There is, therefore, a real need, after we have made some really necessary changes, to develop a general coherent legislation, in which it is clear to everyone what the real rights of victims are now and not to look for them in a number of different laws in different places, with cross-references that are completely illegible. There is a great task for Parliament and for the ministers. I hope that if it is not possible in this legislature, as I fear, it will be a real priority for the next legislature. What we have today is good in itself. It is certainly an improvement with regard to, for example, the Cold Case regime. If we see what misery the victims of the Gang of Nivelles have all suffered, what amounts they have only received in the past, what great damage and enormous costs they have been facing for over 30 years, then it is more than right that we should take advantage of the opportunity to make an arrangement that is certainly a major step forward. We must also look to the future, as other speakers have said. There is still work to be done to establish an arrangement for the future. Hopefully we will never have to use this arrangement because hopefully we will not be faced with such attacks anymore, but if it happens, we will not be able to work like we did three years ago. There must be a new legislative framework that will ensure that victims receive assistance and financial assistance very quickly and adequately. It should not be a law such as the draft prepared by Minister Peeters to suit the insurance companies, but with the responsibility of the government. So, in future, please, let us not give the regulation of the damage to the insurance companies, that is my appeal. Are we there today? No, not at all, because a number of things still need to be settled. There is a major discussion on the threshold of 10% as set out in the 2007 Law, to be entitled to a benefit as a victim of a terrorist attack. That limit also needs to be addressed, because that is now unacceptable. The central point of contact that has been promised for so long is still not here today. The reference person who would accompany victims in day-to-day care and paperwork is still not here today. The unique expertise is still not here today. There is a problem with expertise, there are too few experts who are driven and capable of questions of post-traumatic stress. There is still a huge problem of expert objectivity, because too many experts who are appointed still have a link with insurance companies and cannot carry out their tasks in full objectivity and independence. There too there is a crushing responsibility for Parliament, the legislative power, and the government, to put an end to it. Then there is the statute for associations. As Mrs Van Cauter has said, you have promised to be able to recognise these associations by royal decree so that they can play a greater role in all aspects of the settlement of damages. Mr. Secretary, it's all taking too long. Why does it have to take so long? Why do so many questions need to be answered three years after the attacks? I think we should also ask this question and see how we can ensure that if there are great needs we can prepare solutions much faster and submit them to this Parliament. That is a joint responsibility of the executive and legislative powers. It is unacceptable that we can only deal with this three years after the attacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall say at the outset that we are not going to oppose your bill, Mr.Minister, because in some respects it represents progress on the current situation. It aims to strengthen financial assistance to victims of terrorism as well as assistance to victims of unsolved acts of violence, such as the victims of the Brabant killers. For example, the procedures of the Victims' Aid Commission have been eased in order to be able to make faster payments of financial aid from EUR 60,000 to EUR 125,000. Amounts for lawyers are increased and compensation for travel and subsistence costs is increased from €1,250 to €6,000. Indirect victims are also taken into account with regard to material costs. As a result of the discussions in committee, Mr. Minister of Justice, you promised that the victims' associations will finally be recognised and approved. I hope they will receive the material and financial support they deserve from your government. But we must admit, and most of the colleagues, the former majority and the opposition, have said so today in the gallery...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to do so outside if you wish to have conversations. I would ask you, at least, to show the courtesy of listening to the various speakers. I beg you, therefore, to remain polite.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u38	All the colleagues who spoke before me about these bills have said it in more or less radical or measured words: these bills are a new and terrible disappointment to the victims of the attacks. Almost three years after the attacks, few of the victims' legitimate expectations are met. However, they called for simple, often inexpensive, common sense initiatives on the part of your government, in view of the extreme cruelty of these terrorist attacks, which, in order to attack the Belgian State, wanted to terrorise the entire population, had indiscriminately struck Belgian and foreign citizens whose only harm was to be there at the time and place where the bombs were being fired. As we know, in targeting these innocent victims, at random, terrorists targeted each of us. This obviously creates a particular responsibility on the part of the State, and it is for this reason that the claims of the victims, so simple, so obvious, so normal, unanimously reflected in the recommendations of our committee of inquiry into terrorist attacks, are obviously perfectly legitimate. What were the victims asking for? They asked to be taken in hand, not to be abandoned, and to be accompanied by a reference person. They requested that the State finally replace insurance as the sole debtor, with only one way of indemnification. Instead of acting in the alternative, the State had to intervene on the front line. The victims requested a unique expertise, by a fully independent doctor, of the injuries and damages suffered, in order to prevent the insurers, for example, from being judges and parties. They called for an immediate, unconditional and decent financial response through a guarantee fund. They won't have any of this, nothing! Why, minister, has your government not yet dealt with these claims so legitimate, so normal and so modest, even though they have been unanimously approved by our committee of inquiry and by the House as a whole? Why does this ultimately give rise to the impression of a lack of empathy and accountability? Why is what is possible in France, Britain and the United States not in Belgium? This remains a mystery, it remains for many a deep bitterness. There is a feeling that the fears of insurers have been heard more than the despair of the victims, as if the terrorist attacks did not deserve much stronger specific initiatives. That is why, as Mrs Onkelinx has already mentioned, we, together with our colleagues in the PS, Sp.a and Ecolo-Groen, have again tabled our amendments already tabled in committee, hoping that they will receive the approval of a majority of the House's colleagues today. I sum them up briefly: these are four amendments, which are intended to designate a reference person (such a designation does not cost anything) for each of the victims. This reference person would accompany the victim in all administrative, legal, financial, social or fiscal proceedings; An amendment also aimed at organising a completely independent medical expertise, a third amendment aimed at granting first unconditional flat-rate financial support for each of the victims in the order of EUR 15 000 and finally an amendment aimed at abolishing the 10% invalidity floor below which victims are not awarded a compensation pension. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in not hearing the anger and despair of the victims, it is at the same time their dignity that is flouted, their ability to regain their place in the society that is handicapped, and also the dignity of the State and the country that is injured. If our amendments are approved, we will vote in favour of your bill, minister. Otherwise, we will abstain because this abstention, for us, must be understood as a call to finally meet, in the nearest possible future, the simple but basic needs of the victims who are only partially met in your bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u39	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh followed the basic draft law on aid to victims of terrorism. I would like to thank the Minister once again for including the draft law on cold cases in the draft law. The victims of Zaventem and Maalbeek are waiting three years for it, but the victims of the Gang of Nivelles have been waiting 33 years for an answer about the identity of the perpetrators, about the motives and the sponsor of the bloody attacks, including in the Delhaize of Aalst. As an Aalwestern, I am particularly grateful that a financial refund will be provided here too, which will allow victims to request reimbursement of the costs of lawyers and psychological assistance upon request. They can finally do the same, because they have been asking for this for a long time. The Minister of Justice knows this. They have often been on the floor with him and also with his predecessors. This is the least we can do with Parliament at the moment for those victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important subject. I participated in the work of the committee of inquiry and we were deeply touched by hearing the victims of this tragedy, which affected all our fellow citizens. Of course, encouraging, accompanying and facilitating the administrative procedures of victims is a duty of our State. We can only note that we have failed collectively because these victims are now in distress. They did not have the administrative or financial support to guide them through the various levels of power and institutions. The second unfortunate element in our State's response concerns deadlines. Too much time has passed! The texts on which we are going to vote today have taken too long to arrive. Even just after the events, reactions were too late in terms of information or online information opportunities. Unfortunately, we haven't been up to it. The feeling of the victims – that's what counts – is that they felt abandoned. It is important to be able to receive associations of victims. We did it in the Attentats commission, we did it in the discussions on this bill. It was fundamental, but it was realized that their distress is still present and that they feel very little supported by the State. With regard to the text we are debating today, as other colleagues have said, in particular Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, in our view, there is a serious lack of ambition. To say that, we are basing ourselves on the work done together in the committee of inquiry into the attacks. A wide range of recommendations have been made following the hearings and the work of the experts. These recommendations were much more ambitious. Indeed, they changed the very structure of reaction of the State to such a tragedy, with state intervention first, instead of insurers. This would completely change the logic of intervention. This is one of the main recommendations that we voted for, unanimously in committee and almost unanimously in plenary. Base's here. The texts are here. The direction to be taken is here. The text before us today leaves us with a great taste of too little. We regret that we have not been able to go further in terms of flat-rate financial support and the role of insurers and experts. There are real problems with the experts from the various insurance companies. We regret that we have not been able to go any further, on the basis of the work of more than a year and a half in the committee of inquiry. Nevertheless, some of the points in this bill are in the right direction, even though it is far too timid. Some reimbursement limits are increased. A one-stop shop will be established. This has not yet been achieved and we hope that it will be done very quickly. Minister, you must realize the intention by royal decrees on the recognition of victims' associations, as you have committed yourself to doing. It's fundamental. Today, they are on the front line to support the victims and their loved ones. In addition, support for victims is extended to other victims. The bill refers to cold cases. Of course, we are thinking in particular of the victims of the Brabant killers, but this may apply to other victims. We see this enlargement to other victims with a positive eye. It was essential. But for us, the work is clearly far from over. There must be structural change in the approach to such tragedies, which we all hope will never happen again. Unfortunately, no one can guarantee that. I can therefore really only encourage us collectively to take the work that has been done in the Attentats Committee and to put it into practice as soon as possible in legislation reflecting the strong ambition contained in these recommendations, which, unfortunately, is not reflected today in the text on which we will be voting in a few moments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u41	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the members of the various committees, in particular the committee that followed the terrorist attacks chaired by Mr Dewael, for their constructive cooperation in the drafting of this draft law. It has been preceded by repeated consultations. Twice in committee I also discussed the victim scheme, until we finally approved it in the Justice Committee last month. I realize that time is precious and that, in the eyes of some, a lot of time may have been wasted. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that we did not receive the report from the Committee of Inquiry until 22 April 2017, which was very quick in the circumstances, since barely a year after the attacks. With the opinions of the Council of State and after serious inter-federal consultations, we have tried to draw up the legislation now before us. The legislation was drawn up in two parts, namely an urgent part and another, but in the end the Council of State found none of the drafts to be urgent, which is not the government's fault. I would therefore like to inform the victims that I too regret that speed was not our greatest quality, but it was not an easy subject either. I have repeatedly made it clear in committee that an important step has been taken in the previous legislature, in particular by requiring terrorism to be insurable. It is difficult to understand how some could hardly forget such a legislative step ten years ago and pretend that they were not present in that legislature. The suffering of the victims can be much justified, but not forgetting that, in a previous step, terrorism must be guaranteed in a number of cases. That is not the case in France. The Belgian Victims' Fund for Aiding Victims of Violent and Deliberate Crimes is well funded, but I would like to point out that this applies to all acts of violence, whereas the Fund in France is specifically financed by contributions to the insurance premium, which is, in other words, a tax that we do not levy. It is not good to put forward such fair arguments, but it is necessary to do so if we want to talk about the substance of the matter. It's all too easy to avoid the substance of the case. We have also tried to raise the ceilings as quickly as possible. From the start of the terrorist wave that threatened us, we have tried to recognise domestic and foreign attacks as quickly as possible, which has also happened efficiently in a dozen cases. Like many of you, I have spoken a lot to the victims. I have noted that there have been no complaints of victims at medical level and in relation to the Victims' Fund. In our country, medical care for victims was more than excellent. Foreign victims have also admitted that. In addition, the Victims' Fund of the Ministry of Justice has performed exceptionally. Do I want to say that we deserve congratulations from the jury? In such cases there are no congratulations to be earned, but given the circumstances our country has done its best to do this as well as possible. However, there is no way to really alleviate that suffering. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tried with the legislation to make the Victims Fund the first financial point of contact, even if it is almost certain that an insurer will intervene. Everyone is talking about the slowness of the State, but I note that in the private sector, too, there is no great speed in this respect. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that it is not only in the case of terrorism, that is so in all cases where there is severe physical distress and insurance must intervene. That slowness is the world's. The great difficulty in creating special rules for terror, with all my conviction, is the principle of equality, which is put forward as a pre-eminent in certain countries. For example, the Netherlands never does anything special for victims of terror. The fact that we do so in these circumstances is, in itself, a progress which will still have to be made by the Constitutional Court if that is noted. We have increased the advances to EUR 125 000 and the conditions under which they are granted are much wider than before. In other words, even if it is almost certain that insurance will intervene, such advances can be paid. Mrs Smeyers, we have indeed extended the legislation to the cold cases, i.e. cases where no action has been brought for more than ten years, while the actions date back to that time. Anyone who has already received compensation, for example in the context of the Gang of Nivelles, will be able to receive interventions of up to EUR 125 000. I have not yet read the amendments that have been clarified here. Therefore, I will respond as far as possible. It seems to me that we have already gone through them in committee. I would point out that the amendment which recommends the removal of the 10% pension threshold for special status falls in fact within the competence of my dear colleague Mrs De Block. In any case, on many occasions, we have argued that if we do not reduce it for active and retired military personnel as well as for victims, it is impossible to do so for those who do so as acts of terrorism. On the other hand, 10% is not a very high percentage. With regard to the one-stop shop, I have repeatedly said that an inter-federal meeting would be held in December – it took place – and that we wanted to have a one-stop shop with the federal prosecutor's office before March 22, 2019, which will be the case. The reference persons that are clearly presented in the amendments without saying how this will be financed – indeed, I mean that it does not cost anything – fall within the competence of the Communities. The latter agree to implement this system as soon as the one-stop shop exists. As regards the recognition of victims' associations, we have said in the context of Article 34a that this recognition is necessary in order to provide legal assistance to victims in the context of medical expertise. Although it is true that the Royal Decree of 1986 provides that such recognition shall depend on the Communities, I have undertaken to amend this Royal Decree so that, in any event, only in the context of assistance during the medical examination for victims of terrorism, these associations of victims may intervene in accordance with Articles 34a and 34b of the applicable legislation. I therefore pledge myself here once again to do so, and if you wish me to submit this royal decree to Parliament, Mrs Van Cauter, I will certainly do so. This brings me to the last point, namely the unique expertise. As I have already said in committee, this is a myth. Any expertise has its purpose. Thinking that it will one day be possible to have a unique expertise is a dream. As I have already pointed out, in France, in order to receive a pension or to receive assistance from the fund for terrorism, there are two different assessments, even if in both cases they are State interventions and not private insurers. We need to simplify and make more flexible everything we want, but the expertise, according to our Commission for Financial Assistance to Victims of Intentional Acts of Violence (SPF Justice), runs through the Medex, which, in my opinion, depends on the Public Health SPF. It is already in itself a simplification. For my part, the assistance of the victims' associations will be perfectly possible under the royal decree that I promised you to take. These few words, Mr. President, to tell you that this is the result of a long journey. We will not receive a beauty prize for this legislation, Mr Van Hecke, for sure. I'm not trying to get it from anywhere else. But, to the extent possible, we have been effective – and that must also be said – and it is thanks to the cooperation of all the competent ministers on this difficult issue. I particularly thank Mrs De Block, Mr Vandeput, Mr Bacquelaine, the Chairman of the Committee on Terrorism, Mr Dewael, who has been particularly instructive and cooperative in achieving this goal and all the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u42	I will not repeat the whole debate that we have had in committee, this is not the place. I would remind you, however, that in the course of our work in the Committee on Justice, we have heard from many speakers, including lawyers, representatives of victims' associations. Almost all witnesses and stakeholders criticized the government's choice. It is written in the committee's report. As I said earlier: of course, there is progress in responding to the emergency, but for the rest, I think you have chosen to loosen the responsibility of the State in terrorist attacks and you have agreed to leave the fate of the victims largely in the hands of private insurance, including at the level of expertise. The victims came to tell you about their suffering and how much they regretted this government's choice. Another choice was possible. Therefore, yes, I very sincerely regret that you have not taken a path, such as the one we have taken in the past as a result of Ghislenghien's technological accidents, which would have made it possible to tell once and for all the victims of terrorism that the State is on their side, that it will intervene and that it will be their shield against insurance. It is in the opposite direction that you bring us, and I regret it, on behalf of the victims, very sincerely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u43	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u44	We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 3258. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3258/4) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 358. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3258/4) The draft law has 16 articles. The bill has 16 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u45	• 21 – Laurette Onkelinx cs (3258/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u46	• 24 – Laurette Onkelinx cs (3258/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u47	• 26 – Laurette Onkelinx cs (3258/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u48	• 28 – Laurette Onkelinx cs (3258/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u49	• 30 – Laurette Onkelinx cs (3258/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u50	• 32 – Laurette Onkelinx cs (3258/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u51	• 20 – Georges Dallemagne cs (3258/5) ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u52	Sustained: Amendments and Articles 4 and 9.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u53	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 3, 5 to 8 and 10 to 16.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u54	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendments as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 3259. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3259/4) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 3259. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3259/4) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in The title in French has been amended by the commission in draft law amending the law of 1 August 1985 on tax and other measures, with regard to the powers of the commission for financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence and to occasional rescuers for victims of terrorism." The draft law has 15 articles. The bill has 15 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u55	• 6 – Laurette Onkelinx cs (3259/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u56	****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u57	Sustained: the amendments and Articles 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u58	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 3 and 6 to 15.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u59	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendments as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 3260. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3260/4) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill 3260. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3260/4) The draft law contains 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u60	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 3261. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3261/4) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 3261. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3261/4) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in The title in French has been amended by the commission in draft law amending the law of 1 August 1985 on tax and other measures, with regard to the powers of the commission for financial aid to victims of intentional acts of violence and to occasional rescuers with regard to assistance to victims in unsolved cases and specifying its powers of investigation". The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u61	****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u62	Sustained: the amendment. Reserved: the amendment. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u63	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u64	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Griet Smaers, Nathalie Muylle, Leen Dierick, Nahima Lanjri, Stefaan Vercamer, Egbert Lachaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u65	The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (2298/4) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2298/4) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Kattrin Jadin, referred to her written report. As usual, we are opening the discussion with the first proposer, in particular Mrs Smaers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u66	Colleagues, the number of disabled self-employed people in our country has increased considerably in recent years. Since 2012, we have even seen an increase of as much as 18.35 %. The average duration of illness of self-employed workers is six years. That's a big deal. The main causes leading to long-term illness in self-employed workers are primarily musculoskeletal and vertebral disorders, followed by psychological problems. Especially this last category, mental illness, has increased sharply in recent years. This evolution is worrying and rightly calls for our attention. Self-employed people often wait too long to seek help and try to work as long as possible, until it doesn't work at all. After all, being ill for a long time means that self-employed people see their futures shrink and that they often have to lose income. That's why they keep working even more. Self-employed people can use some support and advice on prevention. At present, however, the social status of the self-employed, unlike other statutes and systems, does not include prevention or welfare. On the subject of prevention, we certainly see the need to use it. Prevention offers opportunities to reduce expenditure on the social status of the self-employed, in particular on disability benefits, in the future. Prevention must, of course, be a measure to reduce sickness benefits in the future. There is also a need for good guidance when restarting after a period of incapacity for work. Re-integration pathways are also an absolution for self-employed people. I therefore tabled a resolution at the beginning of February 2017 calling on the government to make room for prevention for self-employed workers, and for effective reintegration routes so that self-employed workers could return to work more easily after a period of incapacity for work. In my resolution, which was supported by many colleagues, I am asking for three important items in particular. Firstly, the establishment of a specific system of prevention in the social status. It is necessary to examine how compensation can be granted to self-employed persons who wish to seek specialist assistance during their careers. A coach for self-employed people, for example. This support will enable a better organisation of work and a better well-being of the self-employed during his activity. For example, problems relating to workload or to the organisation of the case can be dealt with in a timely manner and one does not have to wait until one can no longer be effective and one is forced to go into incapacity for work. The possibility of a health budget in the context of prevention can also be taken into account. We ask in the resolution that existing actors, such as sickness funds, social insurance funds, external services for prevention and protection at work, RSV or RIZIV, be involved in the development of a possible offer of prevention for self-employed workers. These measures are always aimed at preventing incapacity for work and can therefore work budget-neutrally in the long term. We always believe that the additional expenditure we would make under the social status in the context of prevention and a health budget should be aimed at preventing disability and sickness benefits. Secondly, the resolution also calls on the government to support initiatives that encourage self-employed people to assist each other and help each other to tackle problems together. Self-employed people in the same situation understand each other better and can therefore help each other better. This has already been introduced in the past by Minister De Block, specifically for the status of doctors. It would be nice if the regulation introduced for doctors would also be extended and extended to other self-employed sectors. Finally, with this resolution, we ask that the government take specific measures to promote reintegration and that self-employed workers, like workers, should be able to use reintegration programmes after incapacity for work, which are in fact adapted to their individual situation. This legislature has already rightly paid a great deal of attention to the reintegration of long-term ill workers. The government, and in particular Minister De Block, had always indicated that it was a choice to introduce it first for employees and that the self-employed would be dealt with afterwards. With this resolution, we are asking that the reintegration pathways be made possible and started for the self-employed as well. A speedy resumption of work, with or without adjustments, is also very important for them. The resolution was welcomed and a number of amendments were tabled by the coalition partners and the opposition. Finally, the resolution in the Committee on Business was adopted by 11 votes in favour and 2 abstentions. I would like to thank all my fellow Members who have contributed constructively for the exchange of views, the amendments and the approval. Mr Vanden Burre from Ecolo has another amendment in the plenary. 7 to the resolution with a view to achieving a complete abolition of the career period for sick and disabled self-employed persons. As you know, the government has already done a great deal in recent years to reduce the one-month career period in the event of incapacity for work. In the past, a self-employed person had to wait a month before he could claim sickness benefit. The government has reduced that career period from one month to 14 days over the last two years, which was already an important step. I understand that Mr Vanden Burre and a number of others have retabled an amendment to include in the resolution the question of reducing the existing 14-day caren period to zero. Mr Vanden Burre, I can tell you that we will agree to your amendment. We will support it in plenary so that it can be added to the resolution. However, I continue to stress that, despite the fact that this measure is being taken into account as a problem in the social status of the self-employed, we must continue to take preventive measures into account. It must not be the case that this whole career period will be abolished only in order to be able to take up sickness benefits more quickly. It is absolutely necessary to avoid the need to provide sickness benefits. So we have to do everything we can to bring that down. This means that we need to focus much more on prevention. In implementing this resolution, it is a priority to include the recommendations on prevention. Thank you for your cooperation. Hopefully this resolution will be adopted in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u67	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in principle, our group is committed to working towards the well-being of self-employed workers and focusing on prevention issues. It is true that the Free Mutualities showed in a November 2017 study that the phenomenon of burn-out was very important among these self-employed workers. Thus, one in five independents has warning signs of burn-out and many independents remain in denial in this regard and are ill-cared for. That said, we agree with the opinion of the National Union of Self-Employed Persons (SNI), which, in essence, tells us that the real problem is not to return the long-term incapacity self-employed to work. It is, on the contrary, to allow them to let go when they are sick and to ensure that they take care of themselves. Today, according to the SNI, eight out of ten independents continue to work while they are ill or in burn-out. So, they say, there are economic reasons for this. This situation is a consequence of the shortcomings in the social status of self-employed workers. It has been mentioned in this forum that employees are covered from the first day of incapacity. They receive compensation amounting to 60 per cent of their gross salary, while the self-employed still have 14 days of waiting. Although this period has been reduced from one month to fourteen days, it remains an obstacle for a number of them to agree to take care of themselves. We therefore believe that the number one priority is to work on social security coverage. It was, of course, regretted that in committee, the former majority or the former minority majority had rejected the opposition's amendment to remove this period of failure, because we believe that it is a misunderstood hierarchy in the needs of the self-employed. Today we hear an opening by Mrs Smaers to include this amendment in the resolution. This was welcomed, but it was probably more useful to make this resolution to a full-fledged government than to a minority government. Never mind, this openness must be emphasized. Ideally, it would be necessary to be able to pass legislation that effectively abolishes this waiting period. That is why we should be able to reach a concrete solution to a number of problematic health situations. Finally, as far as reintegration routes are concerned, it is still unclear whether they will be voluntary or compulsory, just as we do not know what will happen to a sanctions regime, because we have not received answers to these questions in committee. In any case, our group recalls that it does not want mandatory reintegration routes. Those are the reasons why we abstained on the resolution. Of course, if we now include in the text the removal of the deficiency day, it will give a little more consistency to this text, even if I agree that this is not the only issue, that we can also do prevention after that. We believe that the main priority is really to abolish these fourteen days of deficit for the self-employed, not only in writing in a resolution but also in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Smaers for her motion for a resolution, which we have already discussed in the Committee on the Economy. This proposal deals with an important subject, namely the social status and well-being at work of self-employed and self-employed persons. It is true that we talk a lot about the quality of employment, which is a major subject for us environmentalists, but the quality of employment must apply to both employees and self-employed workers, whose number in our country is now around 1.1 million. It's an important subject. The resolution proposed by Mr Smaers sets in place a series of requests from Parliament to the government in relation to a system of prevention aimed at combating diseases, incapacity for work, burn-outs related to work overload and difficulties related to the work of self-employed and self-employed persons. As I said in committee, this is an important subject for us. This proposal is accompanied by demands which are in the right direction and which we support. I would like to repeat one point that I have already put forward in the debates: this catalogue of real good intentions set out in the resolution, on important subjects, deals with a series of points relating to the quality of employment and well-being at work, which is fundamental. Today, however, it is known that the absolute priority for the independents in their claims and in the claims of the organizations that represent them is the period of failure. For us, every worker in this country, whether employed or self-employed, has the right to be supported in the event of physical difficulty, due to illness or disability. This is one of our priorities. There is no reason to make a difference when it comes to dealing with illness, burn-out, inability to work. For this reason, I asked the colleagues in the Committee on the Economy and, in particular, you, Mrs Smaers, because you tabled the text. I told you our group supported your requests. But let's really go to the essentials. Let us make a resolution which sends an extremely strong signal in relation to all the independents and the independents because it is the priority today to be able to be compensated in case of illness and not to have to wait 14 days. It is true that in the past, the deadline was one month. It was reduced to fourteen days. We supported this reform, but we believe that there is no reason to keep this difference. That is why, two and a half weeks ago – in another political world, some will say – I tabled this amendment, which was rejected in committee. Today, I hear your opening. I think it's a good thing we can join. I have therefore retabled this amendment, together with other opposition colleagues, because it is essential to consider it in the same way as the other requests you make. It is not the reduction of the waiting period that will solve all problems related to well-being at work. I agree with you. Prevention is fundamental, as is support and support in the event of difficulties related to illness and incapacity for work. For us, having the same rights to the disease, regardless of the status of the worker, is a priority. For this reason, I wanted to make a call here. You went ahead of me and told me that you were going to support the amendment. I'm glad. I hope that colleagues from other political groups who regularly state that the condition and well-being of the self-employed is a priority for them will be able to join us on this amendment because it is a priority for the whole sector. It's a resolution. This is not a bill, but it is a strong signal that we are sending to this 1.1 million self-employed workers in our country. I really hope that we will be able to join and welcome this additional request for the elimination of the waiting period.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group is obviously in favour of this motion for a resolution. Many self-employed people give up the possibility of being recognised as sick and, therefore, receive compensation – especially when faced with burn-out. It's a reality. During this legislature, significant progress has been made in strengthening the social status of self-employed workers. Nevertheless, we must continue our efforts by developing more preventive and accompaniment mechanisms for self-employed people suffering from mental disorders and burn-out. It is also important that the measures in force are better communicated to the workers and that we insist with them on the solution that can already be constituted by mechanisms such as return to the company at half-time and without loss of compensation. Finally, for our group, it is important to stress the essential nature of reintegration routes adapted to the situation of the self-employed. Indeed, it is necessary to take into account their position as entrepreneurs and the economic imperatives surrounding this reintegration route. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a positive text for the self-employed. That is why we will support him. Finally, I would like to add a few words about the amendment that you tabled in committee, which comes back to plenary today. We have had little time to examine it, but I assume that everything that produces progress in favour of the independents deserves our support. With the motion for a resolution, we wanted to take a step forward by providing for fourteen days. In this case, the amendment intends to go further. After reflection, we are ready to support this amendment, because it is a strong signal to the self-employed sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u70	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the text before us today by our colleague, which was discussed in committee, has been preceded, Mrs Smaers, by written opinions from various sources. As this document is a motion for a resolution, it will be necessary to proceed to the next stage by concluding an agreement to transform it into a piece of legislation. In any case, it is already a strong signal to the independent and independent – the latter being, we sometimes forget, very numerous. This is a strong signal, and it is even stronger because the amendment which my colleagues have just mentioned concerning the reduction of the waiting period had already been tabled in committee. With my colleague Vanden Burre, we represented him. You have accepted this amendment and this seems to us to be an important step. In this text, we discover the preventive part as proposed and supported, but we have a comment to make. There is often a tendency to think of the self-employed primarily as a labour force for economic growth. But behind the self-employed's economic activity and investment, there are people who work and have limits as self-employed, as well as employees. We have to recognize them. This status of the self-employed should, beyond economic activity, be rethought by more integration of psychosocial aspects. Of course, the health of the company is fundamental. She's counting. It's the self-employed man's livelihood. However, the health of the individual must be taken into consideration more than ever. We already mentioned it here. There is an increase in the number of psychosocial diseases among self-employed workers, such as the famous burn-out. It is positive that assistance is planned, but it will have to be put into practice on the ground. I would like to repeat what I said in committee: social insurance funds and organisations representing self-employed workers must be consulted. Indeed, this problem is becoming more and more serious. As for prevention, it also implies direct information. According to the UNIZO and UCM reports, the vast majority of self-employed people do not know what social security is now available to them in the event of incapacity for work. It is necessary to continue to inform the self-employed directly when the disease occurs and when it is a matter of reclassification or treatment. It will also be necessary to consider, beyond psychosocial follow-up, a more technical type of assistance that does not exist for the self-employed. I am thinking here of aids to muscle disorders, back pains that are sometimes important in heavy occupations as a result of bad manipulations, bad movements. Self-employed people should be able to use a specialist adviser, for example, on ergonomics. This would help to avoid much pain and suffering. That, Mr President, is what I wanted to add while saying that we will support the text that is presented with the amendment as it appears on the agenda. This is an important moment and a strong signal to the independents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago, the then majority in the committee adopted a resolution calling on the government to set up a prevention panel under the social status of self-employed workers. The aim is also to reduce the number of disabled self-employed by improving their well-being. In theory, we can only support this resolution. However, when one reads the recommendations, one sees that they have been drawn up in far too general terms. For example, what kind of prevention do the authors want? In what way will this be implemented by the self-employed? What measures will be taken to promote reintegration? What kind of initiatives will encourage self-employed people to assist each other? These are all questions that were also discussed in committee. In short, it is a good thing that we want to help this group, but we believe that there are other and stronger proposals than the present catalogue of good intentions. It is also possible to ask whether these can be applied on the ground. This is also the remark made by a number of other opposition members. The hearings, including UNIZO, which took place some time ago, showed that the priorities for the social status of self-employed workers are as follows. They want to improve pensions. They want to improve protection in the event of incapacity for work. They want structural support in the combination of work and family. Let me give you an example: 75% of the male self-employed indicate that they are struggling with the combination of work/family, especially young men want more and more normal family life. This is also confirmed by La Ligue des famililes. I was therefore surprised that the sp.a and Ecolo proposal to introduce a paternity leave allowance into the social system of the self-employed was not received in committee. For independent fathers, there is no financial intervention to this day allowing them to interrupt their professional activity for a few days. This allocation would be an important step forward in the well-being of independent young parents. A second missed opportunity, unless you approve our amendment today, is to reduce the career period for self-employed workers to zero days, which is a measure the interest groups have been asking for for a long time. The complete abolition of the career period is a fair social measure which allows self-employed persons to temporarily interrupt their activity in the event of illness while maintaining a basic income. The abolition of the career period would give self-employed workers the same rights as workers. Ladies and gentlemen, the majority at the time, I do not know how else to refer to them, was also opposed to the amendment or proposal and voted against it in committee. So she is not prepared to do anything concrete for the self-employed and prefers to stick to vague, less concrete recommendations, which, in my opinion and according to the sp.a, is really a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u72	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u73	Demand 8(n) / Request 8(n) • 7 – Gilles Vanden Burre cs (2298/5) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u74	The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u75	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Michel de Lamotte, Benoît Lutgen. The Committee on Industry, Science Policy, Education, the National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture proposes to reject this proposal for a resolution. (2686/4) The Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (2686/4) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. The rapporteur, Mrs Karine Lalieux, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u76	Mr President, this motion for a resolution has taken a long time, since it dates from October 4, 2017, with round-trips, opinions, and a minister's opinion, simply to realize that the majority of citizens have already been the target of unsolicited telephone marketing. It can be called advertising phone call, direct prospecting voice calls.- that has not been asked to buy a sofa, encyclopedia or bottles of wine? – and also, telephone prospecting, telemarketing or telemarketing. Two solutions are generally advanced to the problem of the massive sending of these unsolicited advertising messages. On the one hand, there is authorisation in principle of unsolicited advertising unless the addressee has objected to it. It's the opt-out technique. On the other hand, the prohibition of such advertisements, unless it has obtained the prior consent of the recipient, is opt in. With regard to e-mail advertising, it was the opt-in that was preferred in Belgium. It is also applicable with respect to the use of call machines and fax machines. But on the other hand, it is the opt-out with regard to advertising in the context of all other communication techniques for direct marketing. Therefore, the consumer must oppose these practices if he no longer wishes to be asked. Unfortunately, the original provisions are not effective and have been amended several times. And new since 2015, a list exists, entitled "Don't call me anymore!" "Do Not Call Me Now!", which includes telephone subscribers who no longer wish to be called for product or service advertising or social promotion. Therefore, companies that need or want to call must consult this list in advance. It is thus possible to lodge a complaint with the point of contact of the SPF Economy if this technique is not respected. This is important because when you consult the Economic Affairs department, you realize that a number of people on the list are still being consulted by untimely telephone calls to sell products or services. And it should be noted that there are more than 1.1 million people on this list, but indeed, in recent years, more than 6,630 complaints have been registered with the SPF. Therefore, the system does not work. The motion for a resolution, as put forward, calls on the Minister for Consumer Protection to support the efforts of the ASBL "Do Not Call Me!" to increase the notoriety of the list "Don't call me anymore!" to consumers and professionals involved in telephone marketing in Belgium and abroad, through communication campaigns, or otherwise. I will not mention all the requests, but among them is a proactive fight against unsolicited telephone marketing from abroad, with a view to preventing and neutralising the problem at source, since using a call centre located abroad makes it possible to circumvent Belgian legislation. This text had the advantage of developing genuine consumer protection for our citizens. He was rejected in committee. I have asked for his re-registration to draw everyone's attention to these aggressive, unsolicited practices that sometimes go beyond the limits because they target vulnerable audiences, who do not have access to computers to register on the call refusal list. Given the digital divide, this information must not only be available on social networks, so that people who do not have access to it can know these lists and indicate that they no longer wish to be called. Mr President, this is the proposal which was before the committee and which it rejected. Believe me, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u77	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u78	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Steven Vandeput, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u79	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3395/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3395/3) The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee to "draft law transposing the Directive (EU) 2016/2341 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision (IBPV) and amending the Law of 27 October 2006 on the supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision'. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The draft law has 161 articles. The bill has 161 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u80	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u81	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mrs Griet Smaers and Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, refer to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u82	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3400/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3400/3) The draft law has 6 articles. The bill has six articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u83	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u84	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Conseil Degroote, Koen Metsu, Brecht Vermeulen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u85	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Katja Gabriels, referred to the written report. I shall now give the floor to Mr Top.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group will abstain from this proposal. For us, this approach, in particular a legislative proposal, seems very strange. This is about enabling the external implementation of the role of the Director-General of Resources Management and Information, including for non-staff members. This is strange for the following reasons. The current Inspector General will retire early next year. So there is played here briefly on the ball or on one function or one man. An organisation which respects itself also has a timely eye for its internal structures and the continuity of operation and service. If that had been done, there would have been no legislative proposal, but a draft law to monitor the organisation and make new proposals. It is also curious about urgency, four months before the holder's pension. What difference does it make? For a legislative proposal instead of a draft law, no opinion should be requested from the Council of State, since the majority at that time rejected Mrs Matz's request in committee to request the opinion of the Council of State. For all these reasons, our group will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u87	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u88	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3391/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3391-3) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u89	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u90	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Anne-Catherine Goffinet is the rapporteur. It shall refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u91	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we can discuss this draft law here today. The debate was already on the plenary agenda last week, but was postponed for practical reasons. Meanwhile, the political situation has changed, and almost the group that is always at the heart of sustainability and sustainable mobility had opposed the proposal. I am glad that an agreement has been reached to allow it to be dealt with. What's it about? In the end, it is simply the transposition of a European directive. The draft law before us is a cautious transposition, no statements were made on the impact. Minister, during the committee in which Mr Dedecker spoke on behalf of our group, you yourself admitted that the practical effect will be something for the next government. However, it may be possible for other transport companies to operate for domestic rail transport. Another battle is being waged for the new government: it can hold off access to the railway and keep it with our public operator SNCB. This is also in line with the European directive, so that is not a problem. Another important point of the draft law is that it confirms the separation between the infrastructure manager and the operator. This strict separation is a logical choice: there is no chance of conflict of interest and we create a level playing field for all railway operators. Of course, we still have to find a solution to the station infrastructure. We have already put forward a proposal to the committee to allocate all the infrastructure to the infrastructure manager, but reservations have been expressed. We believe, however, that it is wise to act proactively. For example, we do not have to keep chasing what other parliaments have decided for us with a few years of delay. The traveler is important to us. I think we're all on the same page, colleagues. For the traveller, the quality of service and customer friendliness is important, just areas where we score poorly in our country. We can say that competition will at least lead to a better relationship between quality and price. Hopefully it will also benefit quality. We can keep the historical player for a while, as I said, provided we impose KPIs or key performance indicators, in other words, increase performance and regularly evaluate them. Performance is equivalent to quality of service for us. So who could be against that? I read in the committee's report that certain Members had reservations on this matter. I repeat that the N-VA Group is primarily concerned about the importance of the traveller. We will therefore continue to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u92	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill was expected and it is no surprise that it faithfully transposes the directive that liberalizes national passenger transport. This is a measure that ignores the reality and challenges of a sector that deserves much better. Who in this House can guarantee that this bill will make it possible to have more trains on time and at better prices throughout Belgium? Who can believe that rail liberalisation is the solution to the problems posed by road transport, i.e. the challenges of the 21st century? The stakes are at stake. The train is a tool that serves the general interest. It benefits both those who take it and those who watch it pass, both to the city dwellers and those who live in the periphery and rural areas, to today's commuters and to those of the next generations. The train is not just one mode of travel, it is one of the necessary responses to global warming, the health effects of air pollution and congestion in cities. It is because it serves the general interest that its financing by the State is legitimate and should not be borne solely by its passengers. Relying on the market and competition alone will mean that private operators will abandon small lines, that ticket prices will explode as well as train delays and cancellations. This is no less than what happened in the United Kingdom, as acknowledged in a report by the British Parliament last April. Today, ladies and gentlemen, a "renationalization" of the lines is supported by an overwhelming majority of Her Majesty the Queen's subjects. This project – and above all the directive from which it emerged – is a symbol of this Europe and of a system that serves the financial interests to the detriment of the interests of its citizens. He doesn't reconcile those who turned his back on him. He discourages those who still want to believe it. Yet the answer is in a Europe, but a stronger and more just Europe, both socially and fiscally. So, even if this is an achievement of the European left in the face of the liberal and conservative majority, we will not be consoled with the direct allocation of public service. First of all because it is a limited acquis in time and will expire no later than 2033. Secondly, because it is far from being assumed that SNCB will benefit from it. It's no secret to anyone. This has been said here: the N-VA and the Open Vld will prefer tendering rather than direct award, as the former see it as a way of achieving a loose regionalisation of the rail, while the latter see it as privatisation. My group and I – you see how many socialist colleagues are because they are precisely defending this position so important in terms of mobility and public service in our country – will therefore vote against this bill, on which even the minister expressed his doubts in committee about its possible effects on the Belgian market, because only the public refinancing of rail, not the 3 billion savings imposed on it, will put the rail sector at the heart of sustainable mobility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the pressure is enormous to succeed Mr Devin, who has managed to bring all left-wing socialists together on a very important subject. Mr Minister, you are a little bit of a notary here because you have to incorporate a European directive into Belgian law. It is true that, as other colleagues have pointed out in their own way, the issue is whether, in practice, in 2023, Belgium will choose to designate the incumbent operator, namely SNCB, as the operator who will receive a public service contract for rail for ten years. This is the challenge your successor, Mr. Bellot. On the basis of clear results, someone will have to allow this choice. That's what we want. To be clear, we will not vote for your reform of the Rail Code. We will oppose it in the straight line of what we also want at European level. Indeed, the model chosen is to open up to liberalisation which is not controlled by a sector as fundamental and strategic as rail, in particular what is known as the fourth rail package, which relates to domestic passengers. International travel or freight has already been liberalised as part of the other stages of the European directives. Mrs De Coninck, we were unable to argue in committee, which I regretted. I had the opportunity to do so with Mr.Dedecker, who perfectly defended the sovereignist theses of the N-VA. When he is interested in Europe, he supports it, but in general he does not support it. This is a summary that I think is quite clear. That said, although he defended his position with talent, he still struggled to offer us a clear model of what the rail could be from the point of view of the N-VA. The question arises as to whether there will be interconnection with other countries – in my opinion, it will be difficult! – but above all to know which model will be defended. Much has been said about the English model and privatization at Thatcher. Is the N-VA a neo-Tatcherian party? As far as I'm concerned, I think, Mr. Jambon, he's a post-Tatcherian.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u94	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u95	Mr Jambon, I want to say to you that it is a real pleasure to see you sitting on the benches in the back. Mr President, I think Mr Jambon wants to make his Mayden speech!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, how would you spend your Thursday afternoons if the N-VA weren't here? About half of all interventions are about the N-VA. In any case, it would significantly shorten time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u97	Mr President, I will therefore continue the reasoning because, together with Mr Dedecker, I have had a real intellectual reasoning on the subject. The question was whether the model proposed here was a good model for the future. The main question is, first, whether we want rail transport in the context of a modal shift. I think we all checked that for the climate, for the economy, for many reasons, for the health of people, it was better to use the train a little more than the car. On that, I think we're in agreement. The whole thing is to know how we can achieve this. We are convinced that the model of opening up to excessive liberalization and thus the competitive process as it has produced results in countries that have implemented it is not the right model. Beyond that, ladies and gentlemen, it must therefore be said that this directive will be applied, whatever work we are going to do here to ensure that the Rail Code is not amended as you wish, Minister. Indeed, you are in a way the notary who translates this directive. On the issue, when the choice is to be made in 2023, it will take very strong and very strict conditions. SNCB will also have to meet conditions of effectiveness that are not met today. If we were to find a thermometer of the temperature of the railway today, of the transport of passengers, it would obviously be that of the punctuality and comfort of the commuters. Today, and we see it almost every time we debate SNCB, that is not the case. Can we make it tomorrow? Can we have equipment tomorrow that is not largely broken or unavailable? Will we avoid deleted trains? Will we avoid problems posed by the absence or impossibility of having correspondence? Above all, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, and all those who will one day have to deal with rail, will we have a SNCB capable, because it has demonstrated this, of being efficient and, above all, of meeting the needs of an alternative mode of travel and a real modal shift? Under this legislature, we have long waited for a management contract that has never come. This management contract is a priori the most important document that must link an autonomous public enterprise with the Parliament which gives it public allocations. So we didn't have a management contract; that didn't prevent you from having transportation plans every year, Mr.Minister, as you are probably going to tell us again today. Each year, they tried to meet the demand. The number of passengers carried by the train is increasing by more than 3% each year. The progress is strong, but there is no service to date. There is a concern that SNCB may not be up to date. We will not argue for the umpteenth time on public endowments. Let us recognize, however, that the SNCB today does not have as much money as it had at the beginning of the legislature. We can argue in the envious about the numbers. What interests me is the future. Yes or no, during the remaining four months, or during the next parliamentary term, will the majorities dare to reinvest intelligently in the rail sector, bearing in mind that the slightest public euro invested in the SNCB helps to combat global warming and congestion and to promote a modal shift? Ladies and gentlemen, this is at stake in this railway code, which is also quite indigestible to read. I recognize him and I don't advise you during the holidays. But beyond this railway code which may be adopted earlier, what is at stake is the future and the ability to designate the historic operator to ensure that mobility problems in our country find a solution favourable to the climate, to the economy and especially to passengers and commuters in this country. The debate on the future of mobility and rail is not taking place today, but it is a fundamental issue, either of the legislature that ends – we can all hope – or of the one that will begin once the voters have voted. I invite you, in the future, to take this into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat the speech we made in committee. I just want to explain why our group will be voting against this draft. On the one hand, we recognise the value of the articles which distinguish between the infrastructure manager and the railway undertakings, which we can approve. On the other hand, we continue to have a fundamental and fundamental problem with the planned liberalisation of railway undertakings and our infrastructure. Hence our vote against. Minister, we had a good debate in committee. We have said that this is a principled attitude. Today, with climate challenges and congestion problems, we do not believe that all things are open to privatisation and liberalisation. Rail transport is, of course, one of those subjects. If we are going to liberalise, the procedures will have to be determined by the Belgian authorities. There is a high risk that the most profitable lines will then be privatised. These will come into the hands of foreign groups where the historical operator of those countries is the driving force. That is why we are fundamentally opposed to this draft. Once again, a number of articles can be accepted, and we have approved them in committee, but we shall be voting against the overall draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u99	Colleagues, this bill aims to transpose European Parliament Directive 2016/2370. This is a new stage in the liberalisation of rail passenger transport, which reinforces the complete separation between Infrabel and SNCB. With regard to this first aspect, namely the separation between the manager and the company, let us admit that we must seriously close our eyes to the reality of the Belgian rail system in order to vote for such a provision. Indeed, the separation between Infrabel and SNCB is causing countless problems. Minister Bellot himself has already, as he will confirm, repeatedly regretted this split. Rather than taking a negative look at it and reversing it, this process continues to be one of problems. With regard to liberalisation as such, no one is aware that the PTB is opposed to rail liberalisation, as is the case with many other liberalisations. Liberalisation which has no other objective than to serve the interests of private shareholders, but which proves to be ineffective, more expensive, which reduces the safety and quality of passenger service and which is detrimental to staff. However, the extension of the rail network is an important lever to guarantee both the right to mobility and the preservation of our planet and our health. However, in order to achieve these objectives, we need a successful SNCB, a 21st century SNCB. A good example in this respect is Switzerland. A study carried out by Boston Consulting Goup identified Swiss federal railways, 100% State-controlled, as Europe's most efficient rail system, an integrated company that is both a railway operator and an infrastructure manager. It is also the railway company that is the most financed by the State on our continent. In Belgium, on the other hand, liberalisation has been being prepared for years, in particular by disinvesting and ensuring that rail does not operate, cutting budgets, limiting investment, separating Infrabel and SNCB. Today, the preparation for liberalisation destroys rail services. Users complain about late trains, trains that have been deleted. The railwaymen are alerting us. Lack of resources prevents them from performing their work properly. In the face of Switzerland's positive example, we may have the most instructive counter-example of Britain. After twenty years of rail privatization in England, punctuality has declined. The age of the equipment has increased. The number of breakdowns increased as maintenance personnel decreased. Prices have exploded. An analysis shows that the monthly subscription between Luton and London swallows on average 14% of a British commuter's salary, while the amount for a similar trip is 3% in Germany and 2% in France. This is the result of inefficient liberalisation: more expensive, less security, less good service. It is towards this model that this project leads us. The PTB categorically opposes this openness to competition. This project will also allow Infrabel to offer individual advantages to railway undertakings, such as a reduction in costs, an improvement of part of the network against other parties. This will therefore create a real danger for a two-speed rail service. As is well known, rural lines are likely to be neglected as a matter of priority because they are the least profitable. The PTB will not support this project, which contributes to further liberalisation of rail. I am pleased to hear the Socialist and ecological colleagues criticise this liberalisation process too. This is not obvious because we remember that it was a green minister, then instead of Mr Bellot, who signed the first railway package at European level. Whatever the past, what matters is the future. I take note of this opposition to liberalisation and welcome it. I conclude, Mr. Speaker, by saying that we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the greatest common denominator here this afternoon may be that we agree on the fact that a punctual, quality and affordable rail supply is the alternative to congestion. I also mean an offer from every corner of our country. Unfortunately, that is not the case. Ladies and gentlemen, the wild privatisation of the railways in the United Kingdom in the 1990s is often cited as a means of curbing any discussion of competition on the railways. The previous speakers have also referred to it again. Ladies and gentlemen, we must admit that not every privatisation is diabolical. Other examples show that liberalisation in the rail landscape really means progress. Look at our northern neighbors. In the Netherlands, regional concessions can be made for rail and bus transport. Railway lines which the Dutch Railways considered too expensive to operate were suddenly found to be particularly profitable. A high-quality, material good and customer-oriented offer led to enormous traveler growth. In the province of Limburg this led to the Dutch Railways eventually going very far in bidding for the lines they had previously had to close themselves. I can only tell you that we can only dream of that in Limburg today. Colleagues, this is the draft law on the Rail Codex. I can only point out that the draft law is a very important step in preparing for the liberalisation of the domestic passenger transport market. It is more than just the pure release of the market. Good liberalisation needs a clear and sound railway infrastructure manager, which offers a high-quality network to all players. Ladies and gentlemen, that will be the reason why we will be adopting the draft law today. We hope that effective liberalisation of the market is more close than ever before.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I said in committee, this text consists in transposing the technical and political pillars of a European directive without any choice being made as to the solution to be adopted in 2023. I will therefore respond to the various interventions. First of all, it was this government, and in particular two ministers, that contacted the European Commission – together with the Dutch Minister, the former Austrian Minister and the Luxembourg Minister – in order to provide for direct allocation to the historical society. It was a liberal minister who went to the European Commission to plead in this direction. I want to say it. In other words, in addition to pure competition, the Commission has taken over the possibility of granting direct award. Then, when I took office, I had made it clear that my goal was to encourage SNCB to improve its performance so that it would be armed in 2023 to respond to the criticisms of those who would refuse direct attribution. Among the measures adopted is the need to improve productivity. To this end, an agreement has been reached within the Joint Committee. I would like to thank all the railway workers, because the unions obviously seized the danger or opportunity of opening up to competition. That is the approach we have taken. I know that punctuality, which has deteriorated over the last two or three years, is one of the performance criteria. I also know that the Infrastructure Committee will soon receive the conductors of the rail, but I also know that, in their analysis, they show how neutralised punctuality – in other words, when the facts of third parties have been withdrawn – is stable or even improved under certain criteria. However, SNCB is also the victim of a number of societal events in its field which lead to disruptions on the network. I would like to point out a third element. As far as punctuality is concerned, we still need to be objective. I think Mrs. Fonck asked for a benchmarking. I refer you to a great daily newspaper which, yesterday, reported what is happening in Germany. If the same punctuality criteria as in Belgium are applied, this is now 70% in Germany, 85-86% in Belgium. We have just registered a 70% increase in the number of travellers in 15 years. In 2017, alone, there has been a 3.5% increase, and also a 3.5% increase since the beginning of 2018. We're at a turning point. The Mobility FPS, yesterday, in the presentation of the Monitor survey, also shows that there is a decrease in the number of car trips in our country. It's been many years since that happened. This may seem paradoxical because it does not correspond to what is measured at the entrance of large cities. But all the tools available to him, including the famous Car-Pass, which allows to record the number of kilometres travelled by all cars in Belgium, show an increase in the car fleet and a decrease in the number of kilometres travelled by cars. As I just said, we are at a turning point. There is a change in attitude to mobility, including a decrease in car use, from 65% to 61% in travel. Another essential element: I often hear about financing, the withdrawal of 3 billion, etc. I would remind you that the government will contribute 13.7 billion euros to the two railway companies in five years, to which 1 billion must be added for works, including the famous RER. Mr Devin, I want to hear that we need to invest, but how do I interpret today the fact that the Multiannual Investment Plan and the Strategic Public Investment Plan are endorsed by the Flemish government, the Walloon government, the federal government, while I have been waiting for a month and a half for the signing of the RER cooperation agreement by the Brussels Minister-President? I refuse to receive lessons from those who claim that the mobility problems in Brussels are due in particular to the delay of the RER, when we invest nearly 800 million in the RER on the Brussels Region alone and we still do not have a signature. We are currently playing Russian roulette on the RER file in Brussels! If the agreement is not signed or translated into decrees to endorse the whole RER assembly, it will be returned to any future government. I hear there's a lack of resources. It is necessary to explain to me how it is that in 2017, both Infrabel and SNCB are in bonus and have made profits that are reinvested in the rail and that in 2018, Infrabel is moving towards the non-use of means in investments because all the planned investments were put into auction. Beyond that, Infrabel will reduce the debt below the federal debt compliance profile. The debt will fall further this year by $70 million without the federal government asking to step up the debt reduction as we have set a profile. I really invite you to ask the rail managers if they can't afford it. Mrs Dutordoir told the Committee on Infrastructure – I have read the Minutes – that she did not need any additional resources. I'll refer you to the text. It seems to me that SNCB must be prepared for climate challenges. The population has launched a signal but before launching it, it has already changed its behaviour since, statistically, there are more and more travellers. Mr Cheron, why is the management contract not yet approved? Because I demand that both companies translate into a concrete text the desire to place the travel client at the centre of the debate. That is what has to be translated into the texts. As you know, through the ambitious transport plan: 72 more trains in December 2016 in the Brussels Region, 5.1% increase in 2017, significant investments which also cause slowdowns on several lines, etc. We cannot say, as you do, that this government has not done enough. We have changed the way we understand things. We have evolved a number of texts and legal frameworks. Today, it is up to both companies to continue putting the customer at the centre of the debates. Finally, is market opening interesting? I note that, for example, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has announced that it has purchased 35 new trains which, on the basis of the 2021 transport plan, will serve the south of the province of Luxembourg to Libramont and which will make the junction on line 42 between Luxembourg and Liège. I would like SNCB to be able to carry out these kinds of initiatives as well. For example, go to Aix-la-Chapelle or Maastricht. The intention of SNCB's management today is to say that it will enter into agreements with external partners to operate lines whose cross-border crossing is useful to our people. It was also the meaning of the Namur-Maubuge-Paris line. I hope this will happen for the Athus-Mont-Saint-Martin and Hamont-Weert lines. That is the strategy we want to adopt. Of course, and as you know for having known me in committee, I have never been in favour of a revolutionary approach but rather of a mutation. As to whether the concerns of SNCB with regard to its travellers are recent, I invite you to read the letters that President Putin gave to our King during his visit, as well as the letters of King Albert I to his Prime Minister, Mr Jaspar, in which he complained about a number of difficulties of SNCB. Sometimes I have the impression that, by analyzing the situation by hearing you, we have simply changed the dates, but that the story goes over the dishes from time to time. Nevertheless, we are trying to change things with the means that we have put at the disposal of both companies, with the efforts of each other and – I dare hope – with the evolution of the company in order to prepare it for a direct allocation or another solution if it is not to be sufficiently modernised. In any case, it is my wish to serve mobility in our country, with motivated railway workers, a company that is back on track and focused on the traveller, and without any other consideration of urban planning or the ambition of large buildings in large cities – this era, in my opinion, must be over. There is a need for effective public mobility, which is a sense of the will of all the measures expressed. I hope that it is in this will that the transposition of the European directive will be expressed as early as 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u102	Minister, thank you for your answers. There is, in my view, no ambiguity in the various debates. We are amending our Internal Rail Code (item on our agenda) and applying the European Directive. We have explained ourselves well on this subject. I would like to stress that the Benelux model, aimed at preserving the ultraliberalisation of internal passenger transport, is a rather friendly model. It tends to allow, in 2023, to designate in Belgium the historical operator for 10 years and provided that he fulfils a number of qualitative conditions. It is in this respect that we will continue to insist on the means that must be implemented in the public service of rail. I would like to acknowledge the work done by the new CEO of SNCB. Those who follow the rail record have seen a real willingness to change things. She had impressed the Infrastructure Commission, which is quite rare, and she had helped feed some hope for the future of SNCB. It must be admitted that the first steps taken are positive. Cepedant, it is also important to note that the rail workers have also been up to the level. Some have complained a lot for years, but today we cannot deny the contribution made by all rail workers in jobs that are sometimes very difficult. We've seen him in Infrabel's estate. The danger of this trade, we saw it with this accident that had occurred. It has also been seen with the very difficult work of train attendants, whose role, although increasingly difficult and difficult, is fundamental to passenger service. You draw my attention to the completion of the RER and the famous virtuous billion, which must be translated into a number of texts. If your information is correct as to the fact that today the Brussels Region has not done the necessary work, namely to send to the Council of State the cooperation agreement which must be approved by each entity (Flemish, Walloon, Brussels and at the level of the Federal State), it would be that those who can do so would appeal for guarantees as soon as possible. Indeed, one day we will have no certainty on this matter until this agreement is ratified in the various Parliaments. As far as Brussels is concerned, I have collected information through answers to parliamentary questions (which I did not ask myself). I have read Mr. Smet's answer and I am concerned about his attitude. If he continues to develop this speech, I think we will even miss the virtuous billion. In the event of future electoral accidents, a problem could arise with the completion of the RSP! I really invite colleagues to have the necessary contacts, to organise meetings, to look at the texts. I am of good will on this subject and am free between parties. There's no problem. But let us make sure that, in the spirit of Christmas, there is a real breakthrough! Let's not blackmail other files! I understand that the Brussels people are angry about other cases, but using these other files to block the RER cooperation agreement would be rather ill taken by the Walloon Brabant and the commuters. I invite each other to have the contacts, the diplomacy that is needed. Mr President, you will no doubt say this at the end of our work: it is the spirit of Christmas. It is important to find a solution, because it is a strategic issue. The RER is really central, but very far from the current Rail Code. Now was the time to say it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u103	Minister, you have understood what I have said and I have heard what you have said. You speak out by delivering a kind of will for your action, as if you were still worried about being able to talk about it later and leave one last trace, the time that the King will allow you to express yourself as a minister. After that, you will not be in this Chamber. A few figures are better than a long speech. You wanted to talk about punctuality by saying how good we were...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u104	I said that punctuality had declined and that it didn't make me happy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u105	We're not good!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u106	Between "lowing" and "not good", there is still a nuance, Mr Devin! You will have every opportunity to question the CEOs!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u107	We're not as good as we used to be. I want proof that in eleven months on the Binche-Turnhout line, there were 28,599 minutes late for the people who are going to work. We're not good! 357 trains were totally or partially abolished in 11 months. Who would accept this? You say you've worked well, especially for the RER. But the work was started last year. It's not your responsibility, it's in the government agreement. Ms. Galant had interrupted all work and investments for the RER for three years. You've arrived with another mindset, I recognize it. The removal of the Thalys Walloon is not you! But you couldn't have us re-created this important vehicle. Finally, for Brussels – let us be clear and precise – the agreement that exists speaks of EUR 370 million for Flanders, EUR 69 million for Wallonia and EUR 19 million for Brussels. Of course, we do not dictate the work to be carried out in Flanders. But for Brussels and the EUR 19 million, there is no agreement. For the 370, you do as you see fit, for the 19 there is no agreement because we cannot work on certain points. I ask you for a little consideration and a little discussion with the Region concerned. This is not what will bring down the government since it has already fallen. So there's no more worry to have. But, for the EUR 19 million, could it not be worth hearing from a very important region that wishes and wants to get out of the conflict, which would make it all right for everyone?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u108	Mr. Chairman, I am witnessing the members of the Infrastructure Committee. These figures are inaccurate. I'll take it from witness Mr. Cheron. For Brussels, between 2014 and 2017, we invested 450 million, and during the investment period that comes, there are 250 million (48 million for the four major stations, 19 million for the 30 small stations and the rest for the RER file). The table has been presented to the Infrastructure Commission several times. He's taking the 60/40 key. The investment plan, which will be implemented in the next five years for EUR 5.3 billion, provides for work in the ER, work on regional priorities, work in railway stations and on lines. The reading you're doing is incorrect. Finally, I will say that I no longer know how to operate. We live in a state where mobility is shared. On 19 April 2018, I had the agreement of the Brussels government through Minister Smet concerning the whole Belgian investment table, with respect to the 60/40 key, the RER assembly and all other investments. This dossier was passed in July to the Conciliation Committee and was approved by all governments. And when the signatories arrive at the ministers' offices, they don't sign them because they have a partial reading of a single table while you have to read 17 tables to get an overview! We have reached the limits with regard to the possibilities of implementing a project which, in my view, is essential for Brussels. Indeed, the RER is designed for journeys from- and to Brussels. Today, 19 million works have to be done to paint stations and create new toilets, arguing that geraniums might have to be hung on the facades of some stations! I appeal to the responsibility of each other to have the RER chapeau agreement validated by the various Parliaments, otherwise the whole exercise will have to be started again by the governments that will set up themselves at the end of the next elections. It really took two years, involving all teams, federal and regional governments, and ministers of mobility. Today, we expect a single signature out of the ten that must be affixed, while everything has been validated in the Executive Committee of the Ministers of Mobility, and before the Concertation Committee. I appeal to each other to be responsible. My office is available. I have called the Minister-President many times. I've got the text messages here. Since November 12, I have never had an answer to try to unblock this situation, even by organizing a meeting to explain things. From the moment I'm not answered, when I'm not invited to meetings, I've reached my limits. Let us not play on matters vital to the mobility of our citizens, whether in Brussels, in the south or in the north of the country! Of grace, a little courage, and sign, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u109	Mr President, I have heard each other's replies and the minister's response. Obviously, this bill before us today is the strict interpretation of the directive, but it is only the first step towards rail liberalisation. However, for the cdH group, as has been mentioned several times at the meeting where this Rail Code was discussed, three elements are very important. First, it is about protecting the quality of service for all travellers. Secondly, the various rural lines should be protected and, finally, SNCB staff should be protected. These three aspects are very important for the future in the context of liberalisation. We really want to see the transposition of this directive in order to ensure greater mobility for all. In the coming legislatures, we will continue to look after these three points and mobilize for them. Our group will therefore abstain from voting on this draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u110	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u111	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3371/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3371/1) The draft law has 27 articles. The bill has 27 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u112	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u113	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Paul-Olivier Delannois, Jean-Marc Delizée, Fabienne Winckel, Frédéric Daerden, Daniel Senesael. The Committee on Industry, Science Policy, Education, the national scientific and cultural institutions, the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Agriculture proposes that this proposal be rejected. (1564/4) The Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture proposes to reject this proposal. (1564/4) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. The rapporteurs, Mrs Leen Dierick and Mrs Griet Smaers, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to establish a link between the previous debate on the Rail Code and the point now under discussion, I would like to say that the PS Group wishes to put a better social status of the self-employed on good track. Then, when my group decided to put this item back on the agenda of the plenary sitting of the House – namely, our proposal for deplorable and reduced social contributions for self-employed workers – we did not know that we would defend it before a minority government and then resign. These are the vagaries of political life. In this new context, the lines can move, as was demonstrated in the previous debate on the waiting period for self-employed workers. We look forward to it. On the basis of what was said earlier, we will be able to approve a motion for a resolution which recommends that the government eliminate this famous period of failure, the effect of which is most often to postpone the health care needed by self-employed workers, but to which they do not have access for economic reasons. On this point, making recommendations to a resigning government is positive in itself. Nevertheless, this remains insufficient. A resolution is good; but a law is even better. The first is, if I may say so, the parliamentary bluff; the second is a concrete action for the workers concerned. I therefore hope that together we can take a decisive step. The PS has tabled a bill to this effect: document No. 3098. I suggest that we put it on the agenda of the Committee on the Economy as a matter of priority, so that we can move from words to deeds. I hope that consensus will be reached in order to achieve this objective to which we are all committed. As this introductory statement has been made, ladies and gentlemen, I come to the impression that there is a broad consensus in this House to strengthen and improve the social status of self-employed workers. In view of the context, I pass the history and I reduce a little the intervention that I intended to make to talk more specifically about our will, not only to revalue the status of the self-employed, but also to give a more specific inflection that is the defence of the "small self-employed". It's not a matter of size. It's about income. I'm talking about those who have the least income. This has always been our course of action on several issues. The question of the second pillar's supplementary pension was addressed by the fact that, in the end, what was proposed to us only benefited 4 or 5 % of the self-employed with the highest income. The debate on the workers of the platform economy has also been captured through this course of action. Similarly, we supported the reduction of the self-employed contribution rates from 22 per cent to 20.5 per cent. On the other hand, we opposed the tax shift because the shift towards taxation of consumption does not benefit workers with the lowest incomes, including self-employed workers. The real dividing line is not between those who defend employees or self-employed people but rather between those who take measures that promote high incomes and those who want measures that primarily benefit self-employed people who struggle to close the end of the month. I recall that today one in six self-employed people live below the poverty line. What is the current situation with regard to social security contributions? An independent person who earns modest income from 20 000 to 30 000 euros per year pays 20.5 % of social contributions today, while a person who receives income from 150 000 euros or more pays only 10 % of social contributions in total. I want to say that it is solidarity backwards. This is obviously not normal. This is not fair and we believe that the low-income self-employed contribute too much, far too proportionally to the self-employed who have larger incomes. The current system is both degressive and capped. There are three rates today. I remind you because we are at the heart of the debate. There is a rate of 20.5 per cent for the income bracket below EUR 58,000. There is a rate of 14.16 per cent for the income group between €58 000 and €86 000 and there is a rate of 0 per cent for the income group above €86 000. This means that, in the case of amounts exceeding a certain ceiling, the self-employed who earn these amounts do not participate at all in social solidarity, and this is not normal. After actually being rejected in committee, we wanted to reopen the discussion on this bill, without knowing in what context we were going to be in today. We have received written opinions which, in any case, allow us to reopen and mark this debate. It is regrettable that the debate was not possible following the minister's note in committee. We therefore propose to defuse and introduce a single rate of social contributions for all self-employed workers. That is the position we have defended and which we believe is the most equitable among all incomes. Of course, as we said in committee, we are prepared to discuss the modalities; we do not want to impose a percentage. Initially, we had set off on the one rate of 20.5 per cent, which would have had two consequences, in the sense that the small self-employed would pay no less than today, and that the system would provide budgetary means to expand social security coverage. In committee, Minister Ducrame told us that, on that basis, additional revenue would come into the system's coffers up to EUR 320 million, which could be used to finance additional social benefits. We are thinking of an extension of the right to a bridge, a replacement allowance from the first day of illness or disability, or paternity leave for the self-employed. We can talk about it anyway. It can also be said that, in the end, it is not necessary to feed the system further, since the INASTI accounts have been on a structural bonus for several years: 316 million euros in 2017 and 170 million euros in 2018. A single rate can therefore also be set so that the measure is fiscally neutral. We have done this exercise; we have done this calculation and, by amendment, we propose a single rate of 18% for all self-employed. We have therefore introduced it on the basis of an amendment. If we take this step, we do not provide any additional resources for INASTI. This means that the self-employed system does not contribute more than it does today. On the other hand, all self-employed people who earn less than 88,000 euros will see their bills reduced. This represents 96% of the self-employed, i.e. one million self-employed persons affected by this measure. Of course, it is especially the small independents who will see their bill lighten. An independent who earns 30 000 euros will earn 750 euros per year. An independent who earns 40 000 euros will save 1,000 euros a year. Women who earn much less on average than men in the system are currently structurally affected by the system in place. Colleagues, I just wanted to summarize and recall the content of our bill. I would point out that it was actually rejected by the former majority in committee. But since the lines have moved and the debate is open, since the hands are stretched between ex-majority and ex-opposition – I want to say – Parliament can take its responsibilities autonomously. I invite you to reflect on this at the time of the vote and to support this provision, which will ultimately benefit the purchasing power of the vast majority of the self-employed. Do not reject this proposal because it aims to create more solidarity between the upper and lower incomes. I believe that the self-employed, who are now having difficulties in making the two ends at the end of the month, deserve better than the silent rejection vote to which they were entitled in committee. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this will not be the case in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u115	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject the bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u116	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 466: Stefaan Van Hecke, Georges Gilkinet, Jean-Marc Nollet, Evita Willaert. - 794: Sonja Becq, Nahima Lanjri, Servais Verherstraeten, Raf Terwingen - 2904: Carina Van Cauter, Philippe Goffin, Philippe Pivin, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Goedele Uytersprot - 2905: Carina Van Cauter, Goedele Uytersprot, Philippe Goffin, Stéphanie Thoron, Isabelle Galant.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u117	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u118	Mr President, I would like to report briefly on this important draft, for which a first and second reading was organised. Since there was an oral report at the second reading, I would like to discuss this briefly. The draft contains 203 articles and more than 100 amendments have been discussed, to say that we have devoted a long and thorough discussion to the text dealing with various aspects of civil law, which essentially aimed at simplification, automation and adaptation in accordance with the case law on various subjects. For example, digitalisation of the incompetence regime can now be introduced. There is the change in the right of descent, in line with the rulings of the Constitutional Court. There is clarification and simplification of the maintenance contributions scheme. The renewal in this area also underlines the importance of parental agreement. Another aspect, which many have long been waiting for, is the adaptation of the Code of the Court of Justice with a view to the right for associations to defend collective interests, in accordance with the case law of the Constitutional Court. In the end, we have also had the opportunity, through a number of amendments, to amend other regulations, for example on the appointment of guardians, notaries' trainees and second-line assistance. On behalf of my group, I would like to add that we are pleased that the discussion on an important legislative text has taken place. I would particularly like to thank the speakers in the hearing, the colleagues, who have all worked constructively, the services, the minister and the staff. We are pleased that we are here today, because the text contains important measures, which must be implemented before 1 January.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u119	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be brief because the debate on this draft has already been held in detail in committee. However, in view of the unusual course of this draft law, on Tuesday morning we approved it in committee, after second reading, in a somewhat different capacity than during its discussion, I would like to explain its great titles. Much has been said and written recently about the objectification of maintenance contributions. We must support all initiatives taken to improve the budget for child maintenance contributions. You know that our group has already taken a number of initiatives. We have tabled a number of legislative proposals which should make it more comprehensible to parents. Objectivation and transparency are particularly important, both for the creditor and for the creditor. It is important that we continue to pay attention to this issue. Often it is a source of frustration on the part of divorced parents if they do not think they should pay the correct maintenance fee. The draft law before us is the transposition of two recommendations of the Committee on Objectivation of Maintenance Contributions. One of the recommendations was killed during treatment. More specifically, it concerns the far-reaching justification for the creation of the maintenance budget if this is done in common agreement during conciliation. What has remained standing is to record in a KB the extraordinary or overstaying costs. This royal decree must follow later. The Committee on Objectivation of Maintenance Contributions has initiated, by analogy with the case law of the Court of Cassation, to provide more legal certainty. On the other hand, the proposal leaves room for the parents to give further details. I would ask you, Minister, to watch over that list and to confine you to settled case law. In this way it can be avoided that the rules are being interpreted too widely. This would only lead to more discussion. With regard to the second title, the provisional regime, I should just like to say that there was considerable support for this at both the hearings and the committee members. However, the Board of Directors, the hotline that was spontaneously and voluntarily set up by some fifty welfare organisations, explicitly asked that, given their limited means of operation, not to say that they have no means of operation, they should organise an ombud service under the umbrella of the government. In our view, this suggestion is worth investigating, as there are daily complaints coming in as part of the provisional regime. Finally, although Mr Van Hecke will perhaps speak more about this later. During the hearings, Professor Allemeersch made it clear that the proposed collective rights regime appears necessary to bring the law effectively into line with the case law of the Constitutional Court, filed in 2013 and repeated in 2016. Our group is therefore happy to endorse the proposed conditions of application, which actually provide a well-defined solution to the unequal treatment that the Constitutional Court has established in its judgment and the mandate it has given in that judgment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u120	Mr President, we held hearings in committee and in a second reading the texts were thoroughly examined. In the meantime, in our committee, a second reading has actually become the rule, which really means that the texts can be legally improved after amendment. I would also like to thank the services for their excellent work in preparing for that second reading. The notes from the Legal Service are absolutely of very high quality, 90 to 95 percent of the comments they make also effectively leads to adjustments at second reading. Colleagues, the right of appeal for associations is very close to my heart. This is actually a historic moment. The amendment of Article 17 of the Code of the Court of Justice largely puts an end to an interpretation which has been in force since the judgment of the Court of Cassation of 19 November 1982, the so-called Eikendael judgment. That judgment stated that associations cannot intervene before a court in order to pursue their statutory purpose. We had to have a personal, direct interest in this. This was, of course, problematic, because associations that advocated collective law did not therefore have access to courts and courts. For example, concrete environmental associations, poverty associations or tenant associations did not have access to a court of law. For the Constitutional Court this was possible and for the most part not always also for the Council of State. However, this was still a problem in the civil court. After 1982, a lot of special laws were passed by the Court whereby such a right of appeal was granted to associations in very specific circumstances, for example in the context of consumer law, equality of opportunity, anti-discrimination and so on. However, there was no general arrangement for associations to file a lawsuit. We have been fighting for this for many years. Ever since I came to Parliament in 2007, I have submitted legislative proposals together with the members of Ecolo in order to amend Article 17 and facilitate access for associations. It's been a real agony, and I won't repeat it. I mentioned it in committee and it is also included in the report. There have been several hearings and various opinions from the Council of State over the last 12 years, including a very thorough opinion from the General Assembly of no less than 55 pages, in which the situation has been described legally, inter alia, on the basis of international law. However, it has never been possible to reach a vote, because finding a majority in favour of the matter until today has apparently been very difficult. Until today. Today she has been incorporated into one of the potpourri laws, which we can no longer call potpourri laws. However, it was incorporated into that law with the help of the Constitutional Court. Indeed, in 2013, the Constitutional Court ruled that there was a breach of the principle of equality, as there was no provision for access to the court before the association. Today's the day. However, associations will be able to act in defence of the statutory objective, to the extent that the statutory objective is to protect a number of fundamental rights and freedoms laid down in the Belgian Constitution or international treaties, including, for example, the rights enshrined in Article 23 of our Constitution. That article is a very important article in our Constitution, which lays down many fundamental rights, such as the right to healthy living, social rights, but also the right to protection of the environment. That is why I am very pleased today that the proposal before us will be adopted. It's a bit weird, but in that sense it's a rather historic mood today. The legal world doesn't realize that what's ahead is coming at them. In any case, it will be a step forward. Many associations will be very pleased that they will finally, often as a final weapon, be able to go to court.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u121	Mr President, Minister, remember, we had begun our angry committee. We've completed it. Perhaps the evocations to Descartes regarding the Speech of the Method – by myself – and to Montesquieu and the Spirit of the Laws – by you – allowed our commission to evolve more positively in the heart of its work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u122	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u123	Mr Cheron, I said Descartes, and Montesquieu was the minister's answer. Because with Descartes, I was criticizing the pots-pourry method. He replied with the Spirit of the laws of Montesquieu which resulted, at the end of the work, in a unanimous vote of the commission despite the method. As part of our discussions, the texts could be amended and, for many of them, they came from the opposition with the objective, Mr. Van Hecke reminded us, to improve the texts proposed to the courts and ultimately to the people of our country. We must welcome the spirit that has reigned in our committee, particularly with regard to disability, since, just a short time before we had reviewed the matter, we have further accentuated the improvements always in order to ensure greater dignity for all those people who, at some point, are confronted with the need to see their journey or the management of their property accompanied by a third person who must help them progress on this difficult path which is theirs. Also with regard to the food contribution where we have been able to point out the specificities of mediation in relation to traditional jurisdictional techniques so as not to lock in too strict and specific methods and modalities, the way in which parents manage to decide on the amount of the food contributions they determine without having to specify up to the last kopeck the reason why they were forced to accept a certain amount. Finally, Mr. Van Hecke has just recalled that a new concept, failing to be revolutionary, is introduced into our law with the action of collective interest which finally finds a legal basis. This work, which was carried out after very interesting hearings, with a large contribution from all the Commissioners, resulted in a text which, I think is not wrong, is supported by all the groups. This is proof that it is possible to work in full agreement with Parliament, regardless of the opinions and horizons of each other. Maybe it's a lead in the weeks ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u124	Mr President, without a doubt to your great pleasure as President of this House, this draft has been approved unanimously. It will try to solve and prevent a great deal of important human problems for society. I am thinking of the precautionary power which is a very important way of giving people who threaten to be put under control the opportunity to say how their goods and their persons will be treated during that period. I am also thinking of the issue of collective interests, a case that the Constitutional Court had asked for for some time, and which the members of the committee have satisfied with a method that we no longer call potpourri in the good style of Magritte, ceci n'est pas un potpourri, but at the same time we have enjoyed it a lot. I thank the committee members. I thank the members of the committee for their constructive spirit, in the sense of Descartes and Montesquieu. I have no doubt that in the coming months we will have the pleasure of continuing in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u125	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u126	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3303/12) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3303/12) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law laying down various provisions on justice." The title has been amended by the Commission in "Proposal for a law on various provisions in the field of justice". The draft law has 208 articles. The bill has 208 sections. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u127	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u128	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Katja Gabriels, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u129	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to clarify why we will abstain on this draft law. This concerns Chapter 4. As a reminder, almost two years ago, sometime in May 2017, the military programming law was passed. At that time, the Council of State noted that this law was unconstitutional, which was not even remedied by the amendments tabled. We cannot therefore approve amendments to this law through this draft law, which is why we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u130	Mr. Speaker, we are also having significant difficulties with Chapter 4 of this bill. Article 9 provides that advance payments and advances may be made in 2018 and 2019 as part of the acquisitions of heavy military equipment provided for in the Military Programming Act of 23 May 2017. Our group believes that this bill has a fairly significant anomaly in several respects. Firstly, we are surprised to see that a defence issue was analysed in the Committee on the Interior, which I was unable to participate in. This is an issue that should have been considered by the Defence Committee. Secondly, I understood that, throughout this legislature, it was not possible to make payments for investments under the military programming law. However, suddenly, on Tuesday morning, a few hours before the Prime Minister went to the King to announce his resignation, a possibility was opened to make advances and payments under signed contracts. Few people are aware, but it should be noted that the F-35 contract was signed within hours of the government agreement. I am thinking here not only of the memorandum of understanding with the US government, but also of the contract with the US government and the contract with Lockheed Martin. That didn't happen anywhere. No one said anything about it. No publicity has been made. No pictures were taken. There were no press releases. It should also be noted, for example, that the government held the contract for the Walloon turrets for a year to equip the French tanks we are going to buy, waiting for an agreement on the F-35. The government has rushed so discreetly that even specialized defence information sites have not seen this information and it was necessary for a tweet by Colonel Van Pee, on 9 December, to confirm that the said contracts had been signed at the end of October. I wonder if we are not swallowing fast payments in connection with the acquisition of the F-35s, without us being informed, without the Committee on Defence being informed, without the Committee on Military Procurement being informed. Therefore, our group will oppose this bill, which is introduced in a totally irregular manner in the Committee on the Interior, when it should have been introduced in the Committee on Defence, and a few hours from the fall of the government, as if we had already anticipated the fall of the government that very morning, trying to make payments quickly. We get a cat voted in a bag and we don't accept this type of method. For this reason, we will oppose this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u131	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Gabriels for her work in committee. I have taken good note of the various statements. There has been a detailed discussion in committee, one last Tuesday morning. For the rest, I will include the comments made by Mr Dallemagne, among others, when the dossier is discussed further, but outside the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u132	Minister, you are not responding to my arguments, which I find quite serious and valid. I think it is really an important anomaly that such a draft has been tabled in the Committee on the Interior without the members of the Defence Committee being able to look into it. We do not know what amounts are involved, or for which contracts these amounts would be approved, as part of the very hasty acquisition of F-35 aircraft. In this regard, I would point out that, following the principled decision in favour of these American aircraft, the government had promised a discussion on industrial returns before any contract was signed. However, these contracts were signed immediately, without any discussion of returns for the Belgian defence industry. I deeply regret it. This is once again an announcement on industrial returns that was made in the House and that was not respected by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u133	Mr Dallemagne, I think there is some kind of confusion about the committees and the work of the Committee on the Interior. I think the comments you have just made are part of the work of the Defence Committee. You mentioned turrets for tanks that will be bought by Belgium but I did not find this specific discussion in my file. If there are any comments to make, I propose that this matter be followed up in the Defence Committee. I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u134	Minister of Defence, I refer specifically to clause 9 of the bill, which deals with the military programming act, as the title of chapter 4 says. This article was discussed in the Committee on the Interior rather than in the Committee on Defence. It's a total anomaly. I do not know of a precedent where subjects under the Defence Committee have been discussed in the Committee on the Interior. It is also, once again, instalments and advances that can be made in 2018 and 2019. We don't know what this is about. This may concern any contract under this military programming law. We do not know for what amounts or under what contracts. In the meantime, I learn that the contracts for the F-35 have been signed hastily, without any discussion of industrial returns. I absolutely cannot approve or even abstain on this kind of process! My group will vote against.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u135	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, even if it is not an answer to my comment or to Mr Dallemagne's. I would like to thank Mr Dallemagne for his more technical explanation of the draft law in general and for Chapter 4 in particular. I hope that some opposition parties, who have still supported the draft law in committee, will now repent and review their support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u136	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u137	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3406/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3406/3) The draft law has 11 articles. The bill has 11 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u138	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u139	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u140	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u141	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3407/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3407/1) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u142	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u143	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Jean-Marc Nollet, Meyrem Almaci, Kristof Calvo, Georges Gilkinet, Sarah Schlitz, Véronique Caprasse, Michel de Lamotte, Karin Temmerman, Daniel Senesael.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u144	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (3416/6) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (3416/6) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Ms An Capoen and Mr Michel de Lamotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u145	Mr President, I was instructed to produce an oral report, but thanks to the speedy operation of the services of the Chamber, I can safely refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u146	You and the services were praised, Mrs. Capoen. Mr Nollet has the floor in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u147	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come for us to vote in plenary on this motion for a resolution. Over the last ten days, we have held two debates on the same subject here, then held an exchange of views with the Prime Minister, before discussing it also during an inquiry. I would not like to minimize the time for the vote that is approaching. Behind this text and the commitments made, we find further progress. You know that Parliament has already done a useful job in this area, by participating in the drafting of an interparliamentary resolution shortly before COP24. This document already contained several objectives for 2050, which are reflected in this proposal. That said, we are going further. Once again, the House is showing the government the way forward. Unfortunately, the latter has experienced, at the very least, some errors of course, especially in the last few days. Indeed, as we have already mentioned, the federal government has placed our country at the bottom of the European peloton, so that we are in the only company of the Czech Republic with regard to votes on energy efficiency and renewable energy. Would I dare say, Madam Minister, that we will now look exclusively to the future with this new signal of departure which will be given here, I hope, as it was recently in committee? We voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by a very large majority. The text has three points. First of all, we ask the federal government that Belgium join the ambitious group of countries. We know that she missed the check at COP24, allowing other Member States to show ambition in this area. Whether the representatives of our country have arrived by train or plane, and sometimes late, it is always the case that Belgium's signature was not at the bottom of the call for an ambitious project. This has been pointed out not only by your colleagues, but also by the 75,000 demonstrators who have recently been peacefully mobilized on the streets of Brussels. They meant how much the federal government has done over the past four years is not up to the climate challenge. Today, things are changing, and that's good. Others will speak in this rostrum and perhaps place more emphasis on the second point of this resolution. The second point is encrypted, and that is rare in our resolutions. It is rare to see commitments as precise as those that are now in the text that will be submitted to your votes earlier. I will mention two figures. The first is the objective which the federal government will now have to defend at European level. The aim is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55%. The second figure is for 2050, with a minimum reduction of 95 per cent. Yes, these figures are ambitious, but yes, these figures are necessary if we are to meet the climate challenge and if Europe is to do its part, given its historical responsibility in this area. The second point, Madam Minister, is that you will be responsible for going to the concertation committee, as you have apparently begun to do on Wednesday, but also, as soon as possible, at European level. I am proud, ladies and gentlemen, to point out to you that, at the initiative of environmentalists, the Walloon Parliament has today adopted a similar resolution, unanimously, in order to achieve these same numerical objectives. That is the third point I would like to stress today. Indeed, he is committed to the future. As you know, Mr Thiéry, it is a long-term work which has already taken us to the Inter-Parliamentary Committee, and which brings us together here in plenary session, including COP23, where we were present, also with Mr Senesael.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u148	It's factual!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u149	Yes, that part is purely factual. Mr. Senesael will confirm that we were together at the same COP. Still, that point 3 on which I come back is engaging. The national energy-climate plan that was adopted at the consultation committee is totally inadequate, as you know, Madam Minister. You confirm that what you have done is insufficient. What the government adopted yesterday in a consultation committee, the National Energy-Climate Plan, does not reflect what is in the resolution. That is why the Prime Minister has made a commitment here that there will be an early update of the National Energy-Climate Plan. At present, the target you have set in the National Energy-Climate Plan is less than 35% of greenhouse gases. We must imagine that what Parliament is going to adopt today means that you are going to have a famous upward revision, since we are going to go from minus 35% to minus 55% at European level, which means about 50% for Belgium. I didn't do the exact calculations, but you'll make the details you'll find useful earlier. The same applies to renewable energies, where, for the time being, in our proposals for the National Energy-Climate Plan, we are turning around 18%, while much higher figures are needed to meet the climate challenge. My call, Minister, is for the vote on this resolution to be a new starting point for the National Energy-Climate Plan, which needs to be adjusted very quickly, including with this government in day-to-day business. From this point of view, my group as a whole, but I believe that this is the case for other groups too, is at the disposal of this minority government to move the National Energy-Climate Plan forward in the right direction, so that in two or three months' time we are at the meeting set by the Prime Minister of an adjusted national plan and in line with the ambitions contained in this resolution. Mr President, it was with great satisfaction that I was able to see that this resolution was adopted very broadly in committee. I am not going to dwell on those who are still sceptical and still resist, since they are not in sufficient numbers. Moreover, they are no longer in sufficient political power only to block this vote which, for months or even years, you have not been able to follow, probably with regret, Mr Thiéry. Today, let go! Today, you can join the "good side of history", to take up the Prime Minister's remarks, on a subject that is dear to us, which is dear to you too, I hope, and especially on a theme that engages us in relation to future generations. The vote will take place, but it has only just begun. It is the translation into concrete measures that will count, and it is with these measures and the height of their ambition that we will all be judged in the coming months. This is just a starting point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u150	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a somewhat bizarre discussion, because we have already spoken about the resolution this week in the context of the discussions on the same subject and are doing so again today. I'm not gonna tell you anything else right now. My turn isn't that short. There are others who can do better. For us, it remains a matter for action. It is very easy to put percentages forward without linking them to a package of measures, because that will remain in the dark. That is why we would have preferred to have a debate on what measures should be taken, with these percentages being realistic and feasible. That's a case that's being turned around in this. We explained that last time. This is where an objective is first set. Afterwards, it is only in what way that is to be achieved. I am aware of the measures contained in the Flemish climate plan, but at the moment very little is known about the other measures that will be taken. Those are measures relating to the contribution of EUR 35 per cent, a good translation of what has already been put forward by Europe in the past, in view of the Horizon 2030. In order to make progress in this debate, I think it is appropriate, Madam Minister, to explain to us how far you stand today with the roll-out of your commitments to the 2020 Burden Sharing. You recorded that commitment. You have committed yourself to taking 7 000 kilotons of support measures, new PAMs (Policies and Measures), in addition to what has been done for years in the field of renewable energy, in the area of SNCB. I would like to hear from you what measures are already in the 7 000 kilotons today and where we stand with them. Are we gonna make it to 7,000 kilotons or not? I'd like more explanation on that, so at least we know what game we're playing. After all, we can increase the target, but if it turns out that we are not yet where we need to stand today in relation to the 7 000 kilotons, in so far as this has to be done at federal level, then of course I want to know where we stand in relation to the regions. It seems interesting to me to hear that. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we will not approve this resolution. We will abstain in the vote because we believe that there is absolutely no clarity today as to how the measures will be implemented. We also know that most of these measures have to be translated by the regions, which has also been very clearly expressed in the committee. I think it is just as neat that the Regions should be allowed to say so, so that they can get to work on it. I know that the Walloon Region has also set itself on the 55% line. I have heard that the resolution has not yet been dealt with in any way in the Brussels region, nor has it been discussed in the Flemish region. However, I think it is important to look at what is possible at regional level. The Flemish figures were recently reported by Minister Schauvliege and are therefore known. In relation to the year 2005, the benchmark, Flanders is doing 0.5 % better. So we're still a long way from that 55%. It took ten years to achieve an improvement of 0.5%. There are still 12 years to complete the remaining part, i.e. 54.5 %. Without any clear policy, that seems to me to be a very strange story. Those who read the current Flemish climate plan know what it means to go to 55%. It means, among other things, that approximately 9 to 10 million tonnes of CO2 should be saved in Flanders. This corresponds to the emissions of all buildings in Flanders. So by 2030, all buildings in Flanders must be climate-neutral in order to achieve that percentage. These seem to us all quite far-reaching commitments. We really like to see math. It is calculated, in the sense that there are figures in the resolution. I am, however, missing a calculation of the effective measures, which I am very curious about. This work is mainly for the regions. Madam Minister, I would like to hear from you what you are going to do from the federal level and what progress has been made with the 7 000 kilotons on which the measures should have been on the table in 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u151	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Mr Nollet and his colleagues for initiating this motion for a resolution, which we have co-signed, because the last report of the IPCC is unequivocal: all the lights are red and, since the pre-industrial era, the global temperature has already increased by about one degree Celsius. Without inflection of the greenhouse gas emission curve, the increase in global temperature could reach 5.5 degrees by the end of the century. In other words, the status quo leads us straight to disaster, and it is not tomorrow that the negative consequences will be felt: it is already a daily reality all over the planet. Temperature records broken year after year, heat waves, heavy rains, devastating hurricanes testify every day that climate change is no longer a forecast but a reality experienced by people around the world. In the face of the climate emergency, we need to go faster, stronger and further. Without strong political measures, it will be impossible to respect the Paris Agreement. That is the fundamental message of this resolution. The Socialist Group supports this text, which is in line with the demands we have been making for months. We called for the inclusion of this target of a 55% reduction in emissions by 2030 in the inter-parliamentary resolution voted in October. At that time, our efforts had been systematically blocked by some. But I see today, with pleasure and even happiness, that a large majority supports this renewed ambition. I hope that this is not just opportunism and that this support will be translated into action in the months and years to come because, let us not be mistaken, this resolution is indeed a starting point. It implies that Belgian diplomacy will seek European allies to move all the Member States of the European Union. It also implies that the federal government, the minister, and the Regions put in place the budgets and measures that will accelerate the reduction of our polluting emissions. This involves investments in public transport, building insulation, sustainable agriculture, etc. In fact, it requires a change in all aspects of our life. It is a major challenge, but it is also and above all an extraordinary opportunity to redefine our model of social development. The defence of the environment must go hand in hand with the improvement of the social conditions of our people. We must therefore seize our potential in terms of education, technical skills, technological development and citizen awareness to reinvent our production and consumption patterns so that they are compatible with a high level of social well-being and a healthy environment. This resolution thus sets the horizon for 2030 and 2050, but much remains to be done. I therefore hope that my colleagues who support this text today will be here tomorrow and the day after tomorrow when we have to free budgets, take courageous action and oppose the lobbies of automobiles, finance or fossil fuels. Ladies and gentlemen, the future is not what will happen, but what we are going to do. And, like Churchill, I like to tell you, before the holidays of the year, that "better is to take change by the hand before he takes us by the throat."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u152	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Nollet, what a considerable step forward since COP21, when everyone thought that, after the resolution on which we worked together, everyone was cooked! In the end, we realized that, in the meantime, we had been able to work together on a resolution that we presented on behalf of our country in Katowice – a first for our country as well as for our federated entities – knowing that it was not, for some, sufficiently ambitious. It is true that ambition is one thing and achieving it with the means that go hand in hand is another. I will recall what I have not heard so far from my colleagues: our country – certainly the federal level – has not been left without doing anything. This is a fundamental element because, of course, the climate is an extremely important subject, but we must not scare the public on the pretext that we are doing nothing. I would like to recall five fundamental elements on which we have evolved recently. 1. The federal energy strategy to enforce the Paris Agreement. 2. We are not talking enough about this, but the progress is considerable: the offshore wind turbine which will enable the 2030 horizon to produce energy equivalent to about four nuclear power plants. It is also an achievement of this government. 3. We also talked about burden sharing. It is clear that every year, burden sharing will have to be reviewed to ensure that everyone is meeting their commitments. It was still under this government that our federal minister managed to find an arrangement with the federated entities. This must also be reported. 4. A fund, of the order of 30 million in 2018, was created to support some 30 energy transition initiatives. 5. Belgium was the second European country to issue green bonds worth around €4.5 billion. This will allow us to fund our transition policies in many areas. I believe that these five elements, which have not yet been recalled today, deserve to be mentioned. Of course, we still have a long way to go. The motion for a resolution before us today is very ambitious. As you said, Mr Nollet, it is out of the question of minimizing it: it is good to have intentions, but then we have to put them into practice. We could be blamed for not being more ambitious in September. A number of events have occurred in the meantime. The march of 75 000 citizens in Brussels, who demand even more ambition, cannot leave anyone indifferent. This march, in which I participated, is in the memory of all those who were there. It was a question of showing the public that, if we do not act, there will be a big problem for the future. To the population, to the 75 000 people who have travelled to Brussels to show their concern in the field, it must be said that, yes, we have gone well; yes, we are moving forward. But indeed, there is still room for improvement. The second element that brings us to this more ambitious motion for a resolution is, of course, the IPCC's official report. When we met in the Inter-Parliamentary Committee to discuss the resolution to be presented to Katowice, this report was not yet officially available. As you can see, the figures presented by Mr Nollet – I do not recall – are even more ambitious than those included in the IPCC report. It is worth mentioning. Then, at COP24 in Katowice, things were extremely clear. Experts from all walks of life have made it possible for us to realize the urgency. These are, of course, the reasons why we will support this motion for a resolution. However, we do not forget that we insisted on the need for a socio-economic impact assessment. Indeed, as I said in the introduction, it is very good to be ambitious, but it is even better to know how we will be able to finance these ambitions. As agreed, the government did not wait for the vote in plenary to pass these on to the concertation committee. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate two aspects. First of all, as the Prime Minister recently pointed out, our will is to establish a federal climate agency, which will be responsible for reconciling all stakeholders. I think, Madam Minister, that you will have the opportunity to tell us how difficult it is, still today, to reach a consensus that will help the three regions to find themselves there in order to carry out the acts for which they have committed themselves in this area. Then, and the Prime Minister also touched on one word, it was on the initiative of the Walloon Parliament and – more precisely – the Walloon government that the desire to organise COP26 in Belgium was expressed to demonstrate our country's determination in the climate issue. It is for all these considerations that we will support this motion for a resolution, the subject of which – I shall end with this, Mr Nollet – must not be the exclusivity of ecologists, but a work shared by all the fractions of our Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u153	Mr President, I will keep my statement from my bank, because we have been discussing these matters for two days. I see a lot of colleagues nodding in the affirmative. I think the points of view are very clear. We shall support this resolution, because we have voted in favour of it. The main reason for this is that we believe that the interparliamentary resolution was not ambitious enough. It was a first and an important step, because the various parliaments in this country finally gave the green light to a more ambitious climate policy, but it was not ambitious enough. Not only do we say this, but the 75 000 people who argued two weeks ago have made this very clear. We must be more ambitious. Not only do they say that, they are supported by scientists. If one asks why these figures should be included and why we should be more ambitious, Mr Wollants, it is because it has been shown that we will not achieve the goal with what we would do now. The goal must be to save the planet. That may sound a little pathetic, but it is. The scientists have warned in their latest report that if we do not go to a temperature increase of 1.5 °C instead of going to 2°C this will be disastrous. You can say that there are no measures to this effect. We always set objectives first and then we have to look for the measures that meet these objectives. That will indeed have to be done together with the Regions and the Communities and with everyone. It is good that we are aware that it must be, that this is the goal. If we do not do this and if we continue to muddle, it will have far-reaching consequences. Secondly, we must not only have an ambitious climate policy, but also an ambitious, socially just climate policy. Those 75 000 people who have argued have said this very clearly. I'd like to warn you about that, Madam Secretary. We fully support the objectives set out in that resolution, but we must be aware that these objectives will not be achieved simply by increasing taxes. It will have to be a spread and the strongest shoulders will have to bear the toughest loads. I hope that this government, the next government and the next parliaments will be fully aware of this. Everyone will have to play their part, but the most vulnerable will have to make the least contribution or receive public support. We must be very aware of this. I would like to thank all my fellow Members, but first of all the Ecolo-Green colleagues. They have initiated this resolution. It will be a new step if we can adopt this here, almost unanimously. I therefore hope that we will not receive a new Fossil of the Day award. Madam Minister, you said that this resolution will help you in future talks with the Regions. I wish you every success in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u154	Mr President, I have a few questions, not just on the item on the agenda. A motion for a resolution calls on the government to take certain measures. There has been enough discussion over the last few days on the nature of the government. In any case, it clearly has no full powers. Since it is difficult to adopt proposals for resolutions now, in which the government, which is not there, but a government in current affairs, is asked to act, we will not approve this motion for a resolution. By the way, how should all this be financed? It is, of course, very easy to put forward proposals of resolution and set objectives, if we do not take a financial picture. One of the following items on the agenda is a provisional budget. Ladies and gentlemen, with such a budget, a government cannot take new initiatives. By the way, we're also dealing with a government in ongoing cases. Are we opposed to climate policy? Not at all. We need resources to do this; we need to do this. But further examination of the proposal raises the question of who will pay for all this. I agree with the objectives that I, too, want to achieve, but we must not be naive. We need to be able to determine whether this is feasible at all and how we will finance it. Nine opportunities out of ten will be answered by companies that they do not participate, otherwise their competitiveness will be compromised. If such initiatives are to be put on the line, then we must make sure that Mr Temmerman does not end up with the ordinary man. Everyone is in favour of the climate and they want to contribute, but this must be feasible. In other words, you have to calculate the budget you need to achieve the objectives and examine where you will get the necessary money. Those are important questions. Without an answer, the motion for a resolution makes no sense at all. The government is instructed to address the authorities responsible for dealing with this issue. It is therefore a question of federalism, because most of these matters will have to be implemented by the Regions and the Communities. The climate is important to us. Steps need to be taken, but in a realistic way, with figures, directions and a financing plan. We will then be the first to go along with that story, but we cannot support the proposed approach of asking a government in current affairs to work with a budget that does not allow new initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u155	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution is a good resolution and it is hoped that it will not remain at this stage. It is perhaps, as we can say, a first victory for the 75 000 demonstrators who marched on the streets of Brussels on 2 December and who gave a very clear signal. They will continue until Belgium is more ambitious in its climate objectives. A new demonstration is planned for 27 January. Even Mr Thiéry, a Liberal, recognizes the role of the street voice, which is quite interesting. Don't take that as an attack, it's a compliment, Mr. Thiéry!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u156	This nevertheless opens up the right to interruption.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u157	Mr President, I would like to add that this was a peaceful step. In addition, Mr Van Hees, we have had this debate on a number of occasions, including in committee. If I remember correctly, maybe you were protesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u158	I admire your insight, Mr. Thiéry. In this proposal, we find the necessary increase in greenhouse gas reduction targets by 2030 and we can only welcome that. Indeed, the absence of this intermediate target for 2030 was one of the criticisms we had made of the interparliamentary resolution on climate adopted a few weeks ago in the House. Mr Nollet may recall the little controversy we had about this and about the 2030 target compared to the 2050 target. We considered, and still consider, that we cannot have an ambitious target for 2050 if we do not have an ambitious target for 2030. It is not credible to set a very small target for 2030 and to declare that all efforts will be made between 2030 and 2050. The resolution ends up joining this idea. In this regard, we can only be satisfied with the text of this resolution. Another strong message from protesters and the climate movement in general may be a little less enthusiastic: that of demanding systemic change to respond to environmental issues. Maybe it's less. And what is less evident is the necessary questioning of current policies. That is somewhat lacking in the resolution. The analysis of this government's greenhouse gas reduction achievements reflects an increase in emissions rather than a reduction in emissions. If we want to control the effects of this climate change, the experts have calculated that we will have to multiply our climate ambitions by five. And, as the IPCC has said, it requires "radical and rapid transformations in all areas of our society". It is in this sense that the PTB has tabled two amendments to supplement this resolution. For the PTB, if we want to save the planet, we must break with this market logic, which is the main explanation for the failure of climate policy so far. The ecological crisis requires a collective, comprehensive, planned and coherent approach. This planned approach involves replacing the ETS system for permits to pollute with mandatory maximum emission standards that would be defined sector by sector. Each year, these standards should be more and more stringent, at the rate imposed by the evolution of the amount of CO2 that we can emit to stay below 1.5°C. The other amendment also stems from our criticism of the interparliamentary resolution adopted a few weeks ago. If we introduce this planned approach, we can abandon the idea of introducing taxes, such as the carbon tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u159	Mr. Van Hees, Mr. Thiéry wishes to interrupt.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u160	Mr President, I hear Mr. Van Hees will come with two amendments, perhaps even three. I don't know. I can already tell Mr. Van Hees that, unfortunately, I do not think we will vote in favour of his amendments, because we have not had time to examine them. On the other hand, if he had come to committee to present them, perhaps we could have taken them into consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u161	Mr Thiéry, I think there is a small problem, because for the past four years the PTB has been discovering parliamentary morals, at every plenary, at the last minute, we have received a floppy of amendments that we have to analyse, on which we have to vote and on which we have to take a stand in record time. Here you are using the introduction of our amendments in plenary to say that you are not going to vote in favour of them. Excuse me, but if you had any substantive objections to these amendments, they would have come better than your formalistic arguments! These loopholes do not grow up or grow up the MR, but you still have a little time to change your mind about these amendments. The second amendment is that it is necessary to abandon tax ideas such as the carbon tax. So far, only the PTB is against this kind of tax, but perhaps the movement of yellow vests that was born in France precisely against the carbon tax will make the minds evolve. Indeed, when we see the countries where the carbon tax is applied, it simply consists of adding to the excise duty new forms of additional excise duty that only increase a tax that is both socially unjust and totally environmentally inefficient because it is alibi taxes. If we sub-finance SNCB on the one hand, we know that people will be forced to use their car and fuel. The proof of this inefficiency is that these taxes are effective budgetaryly. They cannot be both fiscally and environmentally effective, because if they are fiscally effective, this means that consumers have not been able to change their behaviour. That is why we are introducing these two amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u162	Mr Van Hees, the Communists claim to refer to the IPCC report. The Communists claim to speak on behalf of the 75,000 demonstrators. But when we know that the IPCC report calls for a signal taken and therefore for a tax on greenhouse gas pollution, that the demonstrators themselves are claiming the introduction of a signal taken and therefore of a tax on CO2, it is not easy for me to understand the consistency of your approach. When I see that the people who have walked in Brussels, in your words, are claiming things and you are not relaying them here, I do not know how I should interpret it. What is the consistency of the Communists in this matter? With your second amendment, you want to delete the ETS system and install standards. In fact, standards already exist for a wide range of pollution. The advantage of the ETS system is that it supports businesses, countries, regions, municipalities that go beyond standards. They can then receive, in the form of funding, an advantage that others have to pay because they just meet the standards. I do not understand why you do not want to set up a system from a theoretical point of view. Here, you delete the whole system. I'm not saying we shouldn't make it evolve. Proposals have also been made in this regard. But you delete any idea of working on the signal taken. In other words, you prohibit the possibility of supporting those who go faster than standards. I understand that in a planned system, it's complicated to imagine. But in a system where we trust the actors and we support the actors who go faster than the standards you want to impose (and I understand that at some point, there are standards needed), I can't follow you. A planned system is not the solution in this kind of situation when actors go further than planning.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u163	I thank Mr Nollet for that clarification. I also note that he is applauded, including by the Liberal benches, which indeed shows that convergence is possible for the future. Beyond that, Mr. Nollet, you are telling me that the demonstrators have protested against what we have proposed. That is not what this is about. The protesters proposed that we change what has been done so far and is ineffective. And what is ineffective so far? This is the market, because the market has not worked, both in terms of energy production and in terms of reducing emissions. The market, in particular the ETS system, has not worked because it is a permit to pollute. Industries are given the opportunity to pollute, and carbon taxes follow the same logic: if you can pay, you have the right to pollute. I do not think we should give the right to pollute. Pollution must be banned and a plan must be made to do so. There, there is a divergence in the view that planning is the only credible way forward on the environmental front. I want proof that, so far, the market is the way that has been followed, and we see the failure that this represents in Belgium. In recent years, emissions have increased rather than decreased, that is the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u164	I can't follow you at all. You're in the caricature when you say the market didn't work. I am talking to you about the actors, the actors who go faster, first, than your standards and, second, than the market. These actors must be able to support them; that is what is proposed here in this mechanism. However, you do not accept this type of mechanism. I absolutely don't follow you, no matter what. I'm trying to understand the pure consistency of your reasoning. You say we must punish bad behavior. In this case, explain to me why you do not want to pursue the policy of the city centres in which cars are banned because they are sanctioned through parking taxes. Why does the PTB refuse, in Charleroi for example, the policy we support, which is to ban or financially sanction polluting behaviour in the city centre? I do not understand why the communists refuse this form, which is also consistent with what they say. The situation is complicated. I am glad to see that you will join us on the final vote on the resolution, at least I hope, but you must understand that it is not because you are making major speeches on the environment that your proposals are actually useful to the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u165	The Liberals were a little less applause. Some of them did. That's it! That's it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u166	Answer about consistency!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u167	Coherence is always the same. Why are we against penalizing citizens via, for example, paid car parks in Charleroi? Because there is no solution offered to those who want to take a means of transport other than the car. We're breaking public transport. We defended these for free. For that, we were alone. If there is no solution at this level, people are forced to take their car. This is seen with this federal government that has reduced the staffing of the SNCB. On the one hand, public transport is broken and on the other hand, people who are unable to take them are charged. So people are penalized. This is the problem of environmental policy based on the logic of making people pay. It is antisocial and inefficient from an environmental point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u168	Mr Van Hees, you say it is antisocial to charge those who have their cars in Charleroi, downtown. Do you know who doesn't have a car in Charleroi? The poorest, the pensioners; those who do not have the means or those who choose not to have it – you are right, Mr Laaouej, there are also. But I don't think it's the latter. I'm thinking of those who can't afford to buy a car. You say today that with your policy and your proposals, you give gifts to those who can afford to buy a car and you forget that those who cannot afford them would need to benefit from the taxes that are revenue for the municipalities concerned. It is also in this that I fundamentally diverge from your communist system.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u169	I think you take a small category of people who don't have a car. Many people have a job and a car because they are obliged to do so for their job, and they have a salary of misery. Today, it is not only people who do not have jobs who live in poverty. More and more, they are people who have a job, who have a car to get there and who have a salary of misery. This is the reality of Belgium, Mr. Nollet. You may not know her, but this is the reality of working hearts, as they are called in the United States, where people have jobs but are poor. I will take my example, if you will allow me to take a personal example. To take the train to the House in Brussels, I have to go to the station. The small country station to which I go is less and less well served. The last trains of the day have been removed. I'm forced to go to La Louvière or Charleroi. People are being pushed to large cities, especially through rail desertification policy. It's a reality too. This is the reality that people experience: having to take their car to get on the train, for those who have the possibility. Many people are unable to take the train because of their schedules.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u170	Mr President, among all caricatures about the climate, I will tell my story. My mom's 78 years old, she's bad on her feet and she doesn't have a car because she doesn't have any money for that. She does what so many people who have a small pension and do not live with it: she asks if she can ride with someone, or we take the train together, or we rent a cambio, a sub-car, which by the way is a wonderful initiative. Working together, it's called, to make sure she gets where she needs to get and that it's affordable for people with a small wallet. I have two children, both of whom, one ten weeks and the other five weeks, were born prematurely. Since their birth they use the aerosol and then they switched seamlessly to the puffer. One is now eight years old and the other is eleven. My children are their grandmother, who, despite her little wallet, still thinks about how things can be different, for that. One pretends to think about ecological measures without saving the most vulnerable. I don't care about that! The air pollution in Flanders costs us an average of 7.5 months of our lives today. And let me also talk about the money. Air pollution costs us, here in Belgium, EUR 8 billion a year. That's the cost of air pollution. Green and nature bring jobs. The net effect of opting for another economy means 60 000 jobs extra. That is the net effect, and that is not calculated as in all the doom scenarios set out here, calculated what might disappear. That effect is net positive, Mr Wollants. This year's drought cost EUR 270 million for agriculture. That is the cost of climate change, for agriculture alone in Flanders. The damage after the floods cost €90 billion worldwide in terms of economy and infrastructure. Then there is the National Park Hoge Kempen, in Limburg, a fantastic economic story. We come from China to see how the coal industry can be converted into a positive story. This park has a positive impact on the environment and the lives of low-skilled people with low wages. So I am more than tired of the story of cost and of how realistic we should be in the climate debate. Waiting for intervention and taking a different path will cost us several billions a year. Realism in the climate debate? Yes, please, but make the bill honestly. Make the bill honestly and find out what it's costing us today. The change has to be now. We are still a long way from the one and a half degree that is coming up with all that we have already ejected. In that case, you will find that all calculations, from the VITO, from the Planning Bureau and from all major economic research centres, indicate that intervention will have a positive effect. One has to want, of course. Yes, efforts are needed. And, yeah, they're gonna have to be social. The transition will be socially fair or she won't be, I agree. But it is the socially vulnerable who are the biggest victims today. Yes, Mr Wollants, it will require firm efforts. It will take a change of era. But sticking to outdated technologies will only put us at a disadvantage in terms of the level of competition. So stop standing on the brakes and pretending to be a story that is only negative. I repeat, as I said in committee, that we spend EUR 1 billion every day in Europe on energy and on foreign dictators. Imagine what we can do with that money if we invest it in a circular green economy at the service of our citizens! So I have my stomach full to constantly hear what it will cost. Yes, climate change is indeed costing us a lot today: a lot in terms of health, a lot in terms of economic impact, a lot in terms of food supply and also a lot in terms of adaptation, of the lack of green and nature. President Kennedy once put forward a plan. When he said "we're going to the moon," he didn't always quote all the considerations to maybe not do it. He said a moon landing was his ambition and that America would. Well, that is what we are saying today about the climate resolution: that is our ambition and that is what we will do. If President Kennedy hadn't had that ambition and they wouldn't have flown to the moon, nothing would have changed. But if we do not change things now, then we know what the result will be. If you still want to look your children and your grandchildren in the eye, you may abstain again. This is about the fact that there is no planet B. We can't live on the moon, let alone on Mars. So we're going to have to do it with this planet. The age is changing, and some of them are having a hard time with that. Some try to put another story that hasn't worked on it and continue to think categorically in the same way. The stories of the past must be put behind us. You may have missed it, but the Nobel Prize for Economics went to Mr Nordhaus this year. He has written very nice things about the environment and its impact on the economy. In the economic world, the spirits have matured. I would like to say very explicitly to colleagues from the other parties, with the exception of the N-VA, that I am very pleased that the spirits in this House have finally matured. I am glad that the 75 000 people who came on the streets and stood here last week in small numbers in front of Parliament, and their children, who have already been here in Parliament, have finally been heard. Let us take that step. Let us vote in favour of this resolution. Let us work together, not to see what is ahead of us and how high the mountain is ahead of us, but to climb that mountain and enjoy the view together. That's our call. You know what? We are prepared to make that effort. By not doing this, you will stay down lonely. And I'd rather not stand there when it's flooding.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u171	Mr President, I shall say in a few words a point of view which I have had the opportunity to develop in committee. I will summarize it here, knowing that it is a resolution. I welcome the existence of this resolution and the work that has been done on this very important issue. For me, it is the continuation and more precise expression of the interparliamentary work that you have carried out in a previous framework. I used these instruments in the cenacles where I had to plead the cause of the climate to demonstrate Belgium's will to move its ambitions towards much firmer, much stronger and much faster milestones. I have heard some criticisms, of course legitimate ones, which must be corrected. Mr. Thiéry did it nicely. He recalled the action of this government through your servant throughout these four years in order to advance the cause of the fight against global warming. In this context, I have already had the opportunity to do what you asked us to do through this resolution at the beginning of the vote in committee. Yesterday morning, I was in a committee of consultation and, together with the Prime Minister, I relayed the content of this resolution to the members of the committee, that is to say the regional ministers within the framework of this institutional forum. I had a positive welcome from them, certainly not yet unanimous, which allowed me to speak about this yesterday to the European Energy Ministers meeting in Brussels in an informal Council. We were talking about various topics, in particular the increase in European ambitions for renewable energy. I have had the opportunity to point out to all my colleagues that we are going to send Belgium's national energy-climate plan to the European Commission and that in the coming months we are surely going to address amendments to this plan as long as we are able, in our monthly meetings with the regional colleagues, to draw up a series of measures which bring us in line with the ambitions contained in the resolution which I have spoken to them in the Conciliation Committee. The European Commission has welcomed this proposal in a very positive way, since in its work during 2019 it will examine and make recommendations on the proposal made by Belgium, which is currently in draft form. In this connection, one specific point that was noted earlier by one of the speakers concerns, for example, the percentage proposed by Belgium for renewable energy on the gross final consumption of the inhabitants of that country in 2030, that is, our burden sharing 2021-2030. I would point out, however, that this percentage, if it is wired to a 35% reduction in greenhouse gases and if it seems to be less than the enhanced ambition of the European renewables directive, which amounts to 32%, is not binding or binding on the head of each European country. The 32% are to be made by the whole of Europe. The European Commission, which will receive all the national energy-climate plans, will examine the proposals made by all countries, knowing that some of us in Europe are very advanced or have a territorial and maritime possibility that allows them to have a much stronger wind deployment than ours. This is the first point I wanted to highlight. The second point I wanted to stress is that the increase in European energy efficiency ambitions to 32.5% and renewables to 32% already sets the bar much higher than -40 % of greenhouse gas reductions, by the very fact that these energy efficiency and renewables efforts are being increased. Therefore, in order to reach the 55% mark, the effort is much less important if, and only if, we are now carrying out strong actions in addition to those contained in our national energy-climate plan to enable us to achieve together, at European level, high ambitions in 2030, such as those contained in your resolution. I feel that this resolution will be voted on by a very large majority on the substance of the debate. I appeal, of course, to the group that abstained in committee, when not all the groups were present. Mr Van Hees, your group was not present. I'm saying it. You wanted to relaunch a debate in which you could have participated in the committee. We regretted your absence there. As for the N-VA, which participated in this debate, I would obviously like to invite its members to draw on this momentum towards greater ambition. This does not mean that, in parallel, actions will not be carried out – actions that we will all have to work on together. In any case, ambitions are necessary to give the right impetus to the development of proactive initiatives taken with civil society, companies and institutions in our country, so that Belgium can become a leader in this field again. That is why I call on all parliamentarians, regardless of their political fraction, to support this motion for a resolution that will allow us – the regional ministers and myself – to continue Belgium's ambitious work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u172	Mr President, Minister, first of all I would like to say that I find it amazing that we are hanging up a picture here as if there is absolutely no need to ask for an objective or for measures and not to look at how this should be achieved. This is all the more surprising when we know that we have achieved half a percentage in the last 10 years and we still have 54.5 % to follow. It seems that we should not discuss exactly what measures are needed and who will pay for them. I believe that Mrs Temmerman's appeal is certainly appropriate in this respect. We need to see how we can ensure that the bill does not reach the wrong people. Apparently, this is more likely to look at who should be rebuked with the moral touch from the high moral tower. It is then said that a resolution must be adopted without knowing the figures and without knowing who will pay it. That kind of thing is pretty much punishment to me. Madam Minister, I also asked you to clarify whether you have reached 7 000 kilotons in the meantime. In the cooperation agreement, you were given the task of formulating additional measures for 7 000 kilotons by 2020. This is on top of what is happening in the offshore, as this is set out in other objectives. You know the cooperation agreement as well as I do. The question is therefore whether you have reached this figure. If not, it is all too easy to make all kinds of claims and make proposals now. Perhaps I should put this in a question to you or to your successor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u173	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u174	Demand 4(n) / Request 4(n) • 4 years Raoul Hedebouw cs (3416/7) Demand 3(n) / Request 3(n) • 5 "Raoul Hedebouw cs (3416/7) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u175	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u176	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u177	Mr President, my colleague Van Biesen and I refer to the written report. We have had the opportunity to read it today and we have no comments to make. Nor have I received any from colleagues. There are 24 pages. If my colleagues want us to read them, we can do it. The main part of the debate was on the welfare envelope, a subject that I think we are going to discuss again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we had a thorough discussion on the Finance Act, the issue of the provisional twelfths and what can or cannot be done with them. In the end, the draft was unanimously approved by the committee. It is therefore the committee's wish to give both the government and Parliament the opportunity to work with provisional twelfths in the coming months. There has been some discussion about what new policies are and whether new policies can be implemented in a system of provisional twelfths. The Court of Auditors has made that clear. I refer to the law of 22 May 2003. On the possibility of using provisional twelfths or not, the law is very clear: "The provisional twelfths may not be used for expenditure of a new nature to which the legislator has not previously authorised." We then had a whole discussion about the welfare envelope. Both the Minister and the Court of Auditors were clear about this. The welfare envelope was 50% included in the interdepartmental commission in 2017. Those funds were integrated into global management in 2018. This means that the 2018 budget did not contain any resources at all for the welfare envelope. Although the 2019 budget prepared by the government did contain new measures relating to a new cycle, those measures should not be included in the draft law, as the last budget adopted by the Chamber, in 2018, did not contain any resources for the welfare envelope. It is therefore clear that at this stage we cannot integrate the welfare envelope as a whole as an amendment. However, the Minister for the Budget said that this relates to the first quarter of 2019, while any wealth envelope is only addressed from April and May. Therefore, in the current unseen situation, it is inappropriate to deal adventurously with existing legislation. However, the welfare envelope can be discussed at any time by Parliament, in April or May. We have also asked the Court of Auditors how we can deal with this situation. Mr Rion of the Court of Auditors will advise us if this wealth envelope is needed for the interprofessional consultation and if we want to grant those benefits, which were unanimously accepted by the committee. The sum of 350 million is included. On the basis of the discussion, we have made a very good decision with an amendment on the welfare envelope. I know that there are a lot of arguments on this, but several members of the committee said that this does not rule out the possibility that it will be discussed in Parliament in the coming months, in the context of interprofessional consultations, in the context of the serious problem of raising the minimum levels, with the opinion of the Court of Auditors, because we cannot go outside the law. The legislation has been formulated very clearly in this area. Secondly, in relation to the provisional twelfths and the debate on the 2019 budget that has not been voted on. A lot of measures are needed to achieve this 2019 budget. Following the report of the Monitoring Committee, we have seen that some 2.3 billion of measures have been taken which have been integrated into the budget by the government and which are also included in the general explanatory statement. We must not confuse this with a projection of the budgetary outcome of the provisional twelfths. I do not think that at the moment anyone is able to say exactly that the provisional twelfths will have a certain type of expenditure pattern and revenue pattern and that this will lead to that increase in expenditure or that reduction in revenue. I think it is premature at the moment to have that discussion. The budget for 2019 could be dealt with here, but has not been dealt with. There are a number of measures in it, including a number of measures that have been contested in Parliament. We have heard the European Commission and the Court of Auditors and we have received the answers from the Ministers for the Budget and Finance. The European Commission has said that there are risks to this budget. I think there are indeed a number of risks, but the government has put forward a number of arguments that show that these risks have been well calculated. We must not confuse that with this draft. Projections on provisional twelfths are totally premature if compared to the 2019 budget, as it would have been voted. She's been dealt with on the committee. There were also many aspects that gave rise to discussion. Word and reply could have added a number of things to that, perhaps in plenary, but that has not happened. CD&V will approve this draft provisional twelfths, this emergency budget, in the context of the discussions in committee. We have received very clear instructions from the government and from the Court of Auditors and we need to be able to look at the issues that need to be done in the coming months in the context of legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u179	Mr President, as far as the emergency budget is concerned, I accept the terminology of the provisional twelfths, the Financial Act, which I assume we shall approve here. Firstly, depending on the decisions taken with a view to the resignation of the government, it is possible that Parliament will remain active for a further period of time. This means that there is no reason why matters on which a majority of Members agree should no longer be approved. My group has already taken a number of initiatives. We will be able to discuss them and see if they may need to be adapted. We have therefore tabled legislative proposals which implement agreements made in the Michael I administration. There is no reason why they should not be brought to a successful conclusion if we can find each other in the implementation process. In this case, Parliament will be given a greater role in the coming months than would otherwise be the case. This is about the legacy of the Swedish Michel I government. Socio-economic policy was not the point where we lost each other. This means that we will undoubtedly be able to find a majority for a whole series of legislative proposals. The reforms announced, which may not be able to come to an end in the government's bosom, will undoubtedly be implemented through the work in Parliament. I assume that anyone who insists on responsible behavior, almost all of us here, will look at these proposals in that light. For our part, we will look at other proposals in the same direction in the spirit of the previous agreements, assess them and, if necessary, approve them. In addition, forecasts of the budgetary effects of a provisional twelfth budget should be made, as it would automatically go in one direction or the other. Don't forget that a budget only sets an upper limit; no one is obliged to spend all the money in it. Besides, we're working with disks now. The risk that might exist in the months before the elections to be a little more voluntarist in spending is thus being reduced in technical terms. That too could be an advantage. The assertion that the technology we need to resort to today will, by definition, give rise to a major budgetary derailment is a prediction, which absolutely does not have to come true. The government in current cases, if the King's decision goes in that direction, will certainly have an important responsibility to avoid that. Parliament can then, in turn, accept its responsibility in the supplementary legislative work in this area. Against this background, we will give our approval. Finally, for technical reasons, I note that we did not agree with a number of proposals which were discussed yesterday. I am thinking, among other things, of the proposals on the welfare envelope. Let us be clear: that was not a preliminaries on a substantive point of view. The debate on this subject must and will continue to take place here, and there too, the answer is not contained in a financial law with provisional twelfths. We are therefore counting on the government and the ministers responsible to ensure, with appropriate restraint, that there is no budgetary derailment. After all, there is no reason to assume that this would be an automatism. We shall certainly be watching it from the Chamber. Moreover, we will cooperate very constructively so that the agreed reforms of Michel I can be carried out in the socio-economic field. That is why we have already put forward a number of proposals in this area last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u180	Mr President, I will not go back to the reasons that would have prompted the Prime Minister to announce the withdrawal of the draft budget on Tuesday and to move on to the system of provisional twelfths. I will focus on the element of the wellness envelope as mentioned by Mr. Van Rompuy. As he said, following the withdrawal of the budget and this system of provisional twelfths, there are no longer any budgetary appropriations to finance the welfare envelope in what will be adopted earlier. For us, it is fundamental that this should appear. This is an important signal to be given to the social partners on the eve of the IPA. That is why yesterday in committee we had an exchange with the ministers and the Court of Auditors, which referred us to the technical solution. The technical solution is to say that it is sufficient to change article 57 of the Act of 22 May 2003. The legislator can detricate what he knits. We have not detrigued, we have simply provided for a derogation, as there are others in the text that we are going to adopt earlier. We have therefore tabled, together with a few Socialist colleagues, an amendment to enable this signal to be given, to guarantee an envelope of around 300 million for 2019 and 700 for 2020 and to enable the social partners to get to work for the allocation of this envelope. Unfortunately, we have found that, although there have been expressions of good intentions, the former partners of the MR-N-VA majority have all voted against it. These amendments have not been passed. As they haven't passed, we're repositioning them here hoping that 24 hours will allow the MR and its partners to confirm their left turn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u181	Mr President, I would be grateful if you would excuse me, but I was laughing at Mr Daerden's last joke. Ladies and gentlemen, I am astonished by the resubmission of amendments. Yesterday, in the presence of the ministers, we agreed to meet again in January and to do things properly and calmly. The Court of Auditors' arguments have been heard in relation to the current impossibility and there has also been an opportunity to reflect for 24 hours on the content of the amendments. When we look at the latter, we realize that this refers to social security. The gravissimal effect lies in the fact that the lowest incomes are forgotten, the income of integration, the GRAPA. Persons with disabilities who can benefit from it and who are not dependent on social security, but on primary expenditure, are also forgotten. These are the perverse and foolish effects of such amendments. Besides, they say we're sending a signal. In particular, all decisions taken by the social partners concerning the allocation of the envelope are anticipated. Short-circuiting the reflection and choice of the social partners makes no sense. It doesn't make sense to do the job roughly. It's DIY. We all agreed on the merits. We agreed to meet again in order to do things properly. Of course, we all want to put the wellness envelope back into practice as it was planned in the 2019 budget, that it was fully recharged and that we also wanted to use it 100%. We therefore want to implement it and find the technical, precise and intelligent means to achieve it. We've had the opinion of the Court of Auditors. We heard from the ministers. We've heard the views of the different groups. Let's work properly. The night was good advice. We advise you to withdraw your amendments because you are making a mistake with regard to the social partners and with regard to the lowest incomes. Of course, I am not talking about the allocation of the interdepartmental envelope, which is totally illegal – the Court of Auditors has confirmed it. So we can't use it. I therefore recommend that you turn not to the left, but to the right. We must withdraw these amendments and study them intelligently, as we planned to do in the context of the 2019 budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u182	Mr President, first of all, we will support the Financial Act. It is, of course, the translation of the 2018 budget, now saucissonned, which we have not approved. We had a whole discussion in committee on the presented budget for 2019, and then we explained our arguments in detail not to approve it. In any case, we are pleased that the Prime Minister has withdrawn the 2019 budget this week. I can imagine, after we have heard the Prime Minister, that the current government parties are also pleased that this budget has been withdrawn. The first said that something should be done to reduce VAT on electricity. However, none of this was included in its 2019 budget. He also said the health bill was too high. However, its reduction was not included in its 2019 budget either. I can therefore imagine that the government parties are also pleased that the Prime Minister has withdrawn the 2019 budget. The debate that is taking place today is, of course, about the welfare envelope. The question is twofold: firstly, do we want to send a strong signal and secondly, can we send a strong signal? In this context, too, I would like to mention what the Prime Minister said here. I took a look at what he said at this chair last Tuesday, under the big applause of the government parties. He said: 'There is also enough experience in this assembly to know that it is very important to send a very strong signal from Parliament and the government', so to say, 'in terms of prosperity, we want to achieve results. The welfare envelope is crucial to support those who receive benefits." So, the Prime Minister, still the Prime Minister of the government parties, expects from this Parliament, even launches a call to send a very strong signal. Well, we want to give that strong signal today. Yesterday in committee and again today, however, I hear arguments that would indicate that we cannot actually do so. The argument put forward by the chairman of the Finance Commission is: the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors gave us this advice. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u183	And the government, indeed. My pants are falling off. My pants are falling off! Why? Because the Court of Auditors provided Parliament with a comprehensive report on the 2019 budget, in which it made dozens of comments on that budget. That advice was then pushed aside by the same parties. It underlines the double morale of some parties here. When it suits them, the opinion of the Court of Auditors is important. If the opinion of the Court of Auditors does not fit into the picture, then it is not important. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u184	The Court of Auditors has given an opinion! I come to my final point. It is suggested here that this is illegal. Well, we are the legislator and so we can change the law here in our capacity as legislator. In our capacity as legislators, we can take care of this. If we approve an amendment, it will become a law. What's approved here is law. Can we do that? Yeah, we're good to go. That is why we are again tabling an amendment here today. It will be up to each and every one of you to vote on it in honor and conscience. Whoever wants, can. In any case, we will approve it and ensure that there is security about the welfare envelope, for the social partners who are beginning to negotiate it in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u185	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, Mr Rion of the Court of Auditors then based himself on Article 57 of the Law of 22 May 2003 on the organisation of the budget and on its compatibility in the federal state. Article 57 of that Act provides that "Preliminary appropriations may not be used for expenditure of a new nature which has not previously been authorised by the legislator'. If I follow your reasoning, there is a legislation on computability, then you are actually saying that we need to amend that legislation, but if you amend that legislation in the sense that you may include unlimited new initiatives in the system of provisional appropriations, then remove that legislation from the provisional appropriations. You should then go directly to a full budget, which contains all the elements. If we are not in the system of provisional appropriations, we may or may not include matters in the budget. I find it unbelievable that you want to add a new provision in the law which is the opposite of the draft provisional appropriations, because then you will no longer have provisional appropriations. Today we are talking about the welfare envelope, tomorrow we are talking about the railways and the day after tomorrow we are talking about a number of other expenditures. You then simply ask yourself, Mr Daerden, you have also developed that reasoning, the law of 2003 on comptability in question. You will then simply have to abolish the legislation on provisional appropriations, which is based on the principle of caution that no new initiatives should be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u186	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u187	Mr Vanvelthoven, this law was passed in all parliaments in 2003, including in the Land Parliaments. If you now say that you want to amend that law ad hoc in order to be able to take new initiatives during the period of provisional appropriations, then simply abolish that law on provisional appropriations. I've never heard such a reasoning. I think this is very weak. CD&V and a number of other parties have committed themselves to the fact that the Minister also said this in her reply in the following months of April and May, if the welfare envelope could be implemented... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u188	It's gonna be hard, too. Mrs Kitir, this is not about slogans! We have asked the Court of Auditors what it recommends for the coming months. Mr Rion has said that he will think about this. In fact, he also told us that this would be very difficult. I therefore hope that we will get rid of those provisional twelfths over the next few months. Your argument, however, does not go far enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u189	Mr President, I have a brief reply and two questions. Firstly, there is an interdepartmental commission, what will it be spent on? I understand she won't be published because she can't. If it were to go to the welfare envelope, then you really must make an effort to call this new policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u190	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u191	If that's the argument, then I understand it's gonna be difficult. Secondly, if it is not possible today, how will it be possible in three months' time?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u192	It will be very difficult to resolve this in this way, as the Minister has said. We need to look at how we are going to do that at that point. As far as the interdepartmental envelope is concerned, I believe that this has been clarified in committee. Since the welfare envelope was not included in the 2018 interdepartmental envelope, but was integrated into the whole of social security, there is no basis to charge this envelope in 2019. This is in writing. I believe that Mr Van Mechelen has also reminded us of this a few times. It is a very difficult matter, but there is nothing we can do but follow the legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u193	But we are the legislator! We can change the law. We are the highest authority here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u194	Yes, but are you going to abolish the provisional appropriations? What is a new initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u195	No, read our amendment. That's what it's about.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u196	Mr President, I would like to make a point. We are busy talking about the amendment of an organic law by a provisional twelfth law, the effect of which is limited in time to three months. To change this article, we will be accompanied by the Court of Auditors. We will work calmly and quietly in January. So there's no need to tinker, I'll call him back. Mr Vanvelthoven should not ask us if we want to use the wellness envelope, since we planned it 100% for the 2019 budget. So we must not come and give us lessons.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u197	Mr President, I wanted to react without controversy to the statements made by Messrs. Van Rompuy and Piedboeuf. Mr Van Rompuy, other derogations from the 2003 law are provided for in your draft. Besides, you don't want us to find the trick right away, because we'll have to find it in January or February. In short, we say the same thing: it's a matter of timing. For our part, we want guarantees before the negotiations begin. We found the trick and tabled an amendment to that effect so that the strong signal would be given before that period. Mr Piedboeuf, I do not agree with you when you divide the primary expenditure and the financing of social security. To take just one example, I would like to point out that alternative financing of social security is included in primary expenditure. And then, you mix the funding and the distribution of the wellness envelope. Moreover, you forget to mention the independents when quoting the different areas of assignment. I still wanted to stress that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u198	Mr President, I have listened carefully to some of my colleagues, including Mr Vanvelthoven, who praised the Prime Minister for his intervention last Tuesday. These were certain suggestions he made regarding the purchasing power of people who have problems with energy poverty. He presented various suggestions from which he did not make a choice. It was also about the welfare envelope and other measures on purchasing power. Mr Vanvelthoven, you seem to agree with that, but you still tabled a motion of censure on behalf of your group. That seems very contradictory to me. Mr Daerden, you are asking for a left turn. Colleague, we do not make a left turn, we do not make a right turn, we drive straight ahead. That's a little consistent. [[Laughter and noise on the benches]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u199	A little consistent... Consistent is consistent, not a bit!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u200	Yes. Without a political crisis, our group would have approved a budget of 353 million for the welfare envelope in 2019 and more than 700 million in 2020. That was our line, and that is what she remains in the vote on the provisional twelfths. However, I agree with what Mr Van Rompuy said, namely that there are currently legal and technical difficulties. On the banks across the street, it was said that there should be a signal. As far as we are concerned, this signal is very clear: the 353 million must be filled in somehow. That is our responsibility as a Parliament, especially in today's political context. However, there is also a government commitment in this area. I expect this government to make it clear to the social partners that the amount foreseen in the budget is a margin that can be used in the IPA negotiations. After all, these negotiations are crucial for additional employment and social peace in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u201	Mr President, of the provisional twelfths, it is a kind of budget rescue buoy that will allow the federal state to pass the new year's course. The services provided by the federal state to our fellow citizens can thus continue in a continuous manner, in the context of the government crisis that we are experiencing. That is the only reason why we will support these provisional twelfths: for the sake of responsibility and because we will never be the ones who will add chaos to chaos, Mrs Marghem. We were surprised to hear, as part of his speech here in the gallery, in response to the inquiries that had been made to him, the Prime Minister spontaneously said that they would be provisional twelfths long before we knew the rest of the story, although the basis of these provisional twelfths, the initial 2018 budget, did not correspond to the needs of 2019. This is the technical question that arises today. Indeed, there are expenses that are planned but no longer necessary, such as the organisation of a NATO summit because it has already been done. We're not gonna do one again this year. What is actually proposed is three twelfths, one quarter of a budget that we have criticized for its content. This criticism remains. I might not have criticized him, but there was so much to criticize, Mrs. Marghem. For this, I refer you to the presentation I was able to make at the rostrum a year ago in December 2017: the lack of resources for justice, cuts in social security, a lack of resources for mobility. These are criticisms that remain valid today, but there are also remarks to be made, Madam Budget Minister, on the question of possible new policies in the context of these provisional twelfths. I note that, in this budget, despite the fact that we are supposed to take the 2018 initial budget, new policies can nevertheless be implemented. I have a technical question for you. It could not be asked in the Finance Committee because we were receiving the text almost in session. I note, for example, a transfer from the Directorate-General Social Inspectorate and Independents from the Social Security FPS to the INASTI. In this regard, in my view, and according to my information, there is no legal basis or order taken at the time it is made. There is even a protocol of disagreement at the union level. We have not been able to make an in-depth analysis of this budget in the circumstances, but obviously there are still issues. I also note with my colleagues, and this was the main subject of our discussion yesterday and today, that there is no envelope provided for a partial link between social benefits and well-being. In our view, this could and should have been included in your original proposal. A clear signal must be given to the social partners who are discussing the future interprofessional agreement, which includes the upgrading of the lowest allowances. That is why we will symbolically support the amendment tabled by our colleague, even though I fully agree with the members of the majority and Mr. Van Rompuy on the technically weak character of the text. But I have above all taken note of the commitment, which Mr Verherstraeten has just recalled, which has been taken by the parties of the minority majority, to find a solution within a very short period of time so that this envelope, allowing the link of social allowances to well-being, can be re-incorporated into the budget as early as January. It is essential not to add social disorder to political disorder and the government crisis, and to support the continuation of social dialogue, which is essential to stability in our country. It is essential to find answers to the social emergencies that are facing us and that do not concern only the connection to well-being. We will have to continue to work in these difficult circumstances and to be creative. There is still this 2014 government agreement to raise minimum social benefits to the poverty risk line. There are always measures to be taken to combat energy insecurity and the phenomenon of poor workers. Minister of Finance, even if the government is in day-to-day business, you can work with your administration to ensure good revenue collection and an effective fight against tax evasion. We have an appointment as early as January, and we hear, Madam Minister, that you are respecting the word you gave yesterday in the Finance Committee to propose a technical solution to include the amounts necessary to reassure each other. I would not like to limit the debate to liaison with well-being. We rely on creativity, voluntarism and goodwill to find solutions, in general, to the various social issues to be addressed, in particular. You can count on the Ecolo-Groen Group to make proposals that are technically compatible with Belgian accounting law, but above all, because that is the essential thing that meets the needs and expectations of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u202	Mr President, I would like to make two points. The first concerns provisional twelfths. We held a three-hour debate in committee yesterday afternoon. By a contest of circumstances, that same evening, in the communal council, we also had an item on the agenda with a provisional twelfth. In both cases, the provisional twelfths were voted unanimously. At the municipal level, however, it did not take us three hours, or even three minutes, because the point was voted at the outset, because it seemed clear to us that, since there is no budget, the administration must be given the means to function and, therefore, to vote for the provisional twelfths. We will, of course, vote on them. This point does not require lengthy controversy, nor does it require us to epilogise for hours on the subject. The second point I would like to address concerns the welfare envelope. Most of the groups that spoke expressed a desire to clear this well-being envelope. There are actually two solutions. The first is immediate and simple, it is the way of derogation from the State Accounting Act. This is the way of the amendment tabled, and we will agree with it because we believe that a swift and clear message would be appropriate to enable the social partners to work quickly and transparently, within a framework that would have been clearly defined. I hear, however, that the deceased majority does not want to follow this path. So there is a second solution, namely the one Mr. Piedboeuf has just announced. It seems to me more complicated and, in any case, less rapid. This is the way to amend the State Accounting Act. I am waiting to see, but since the MR group has committed itself by Mr Piedboeuf's voice to table a bill, we will be looking into it with interest as early as January. I hope it wasn't a game of fools. If the amendment is not voted, I will give you an appointment in January, Mr Piedboeuf, to consider your proposal. Failing this, you will have missed a commitment which the social partners have been waiting for.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u203	Mr President, I have heard a number of colleagues regret that the 2019 budget was not dealt with here. I myself regret that the debate was not held in plenary, because it always leads to a debate on the overall socio-economic situation. We could have had the debate about the fact that the good figures are mainly due to the low interest rates and the good economic situation in Europe, on which we could ride. The debate could have been held on the far too slow reduction of public debt, on the excessive tax burden and on the outstanding budgetary balances. That debate has not come, we have not been able to debate the faint socio-economic report, for which we have received Community freezer for at least five years in return. I am pleased that the 2019 budget has not been approved. That is, on the one hand, because of things that are not included, such as the reduction of VAT on electricity. I would also like to point out to Mr Vanvelthoven that he has a good ally to us in this respect, because we were the first to put forward legislative proposals for this. That's, on the other hand, because of things that were in there. To give you a small example, one was planning to double spending on Islamic worship. So it's not a budget for 2019, it's an emergency budget. This means that the 2018 budget will continue. There is little point in repeating my speech last December on the 2018 budget. At that time, we gave many reasons why our group did not support that budget. Consistent as we are, we will not support the extension of that budget either. It is, of course, understandable and logical that you should come up with provisional twelfths. You need to keep things going. The government of deceptive business needs to go a little further. It seems, ladies and gentlemen, that the dorking will continue for a while and there will probably be another extension by provisional twelfths in March. There is certainly the impression that the self-declared democratic parties do not want or dare to ask for the opinion of the electorate on the debacle of recent weeks. I fear that polls, such as today's, will not reduce the desperate self-preservation of those parties. I hear as an argument not to hold an early election, that there is no point in it because it will be difficult to get to a government. Ladies and gentlemen, do not be under any illusions, do not think that will be easier after 26 May. I hope that you will not go through with this reasoning, because it would be better for you to abolish the elections and democracy, so that you can continue. I have one specific question on the proposed technical budget. There is one exception throughout the document to the three-month extension. It is an exception as I have seen them regularly return to the provisional twelfths. There is one exception to the provisional twelfths, with a double bid. I'm talking about the Civilian List donations. I hope that the fresh Minister will be able to explain why this is necessary, especially now that I have heard that he is afraid that the budget is going down. He would be absolutely against exceptions or derogations, wouldn't he? Or perhaps one of the other parties, which, as I have heard from Mr De Roover, naturally will be able to approve the provisional twelfths, can give some explanation as to why this exception is necessary for the royal family?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u204	Mr President, Minister, Minister, it is a pity that it has had to reach provisional twelfths. What's on the table now? That's a budget for the next three months, no more than three months. Then we'll be at the end of March. Until then, budget is foreseen. But then what happens? The chances of an election are low. Will we then again have to approve provisional twelfths, which will then be valid until the end of June? Then a new Parliament has been elected and a new government, or probably still a government in ongoing cases. Walking even slower than they are now walking. And as a result... We, as representatives of the people, have a huge responsibility here. We cannot ensure that we have to work with provisional twelfths for a whole year. After all, I do not see a completely new budget coming any faster unless there is constructive cooperation here. I just don't think this is possible. We all have to accept our responsibilities. An advantage of the provisional twelfths is perhaps, contrary to what Minister De Croo said, who expects the deficit to derail by two billion, that working with provisional twelfths, as history has taught us, is usually very positive for our budget. So perhaps everything is not so bad, but we cannot ensure that, as it looks like, we have to work with provisional twelfths for a full year. I heard a number of people here asking what the purpose of those provisional twelfths is? The aim is simply to ensure that the services of the government can be kept running. No more, no less. We know, on the basis of Articles 55 to 58 of the Law of 22 May 2003, how we should look at the provisional twelfths and how we should implement them. I note that amendments have been tabled to amend Article 57 in order to ensure that the budget can be spent more than legally authorised. I know, we are often useful in finding all kinds of gadgets to circumvent the law, but we must be very clear. That Article 57 was once adopted in view of the principle of caution. If we throw it overboard now, it will be thrown overboard in other situations in the future. We need to think very clearly about this first, rather than simply throwing Article 57 overboard. I accept the hand handed down by the Minister who indicates that the government will consider in early January 2019 how it can be done. After all, the welfare envelope is at zero because we are basing ourselves on the revised 2018 budget of May because the second one still has to be approved. The situation is what she is. That is why we would like to have this debate as early as possible. I therefore ask the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the Budget how we can proceed properly. The article clearly states that no new initiatives can be taken. We are, of course, a Parliament. We have to accept our responsibilities. When we come forward with new proposals in our capacity as a Member of Parliament and as a representative of the people, we must be able to demonstrate very clearly what it will cost and where the money will come from. In this way we can ensure that the current budget will not be completely derailed. So we do not want chaos over chaos. We will also support the provisional twelfths, simply because we want to keep the services of the government running, knowing that we did not approve the budget in 2018 as well as in the light of the agreement made to take other steps as soon as possible and to look at things thoroughly. Madam Secretary, I have another technical question. I passed on a number of things to you yesterday, but I also have a specific question. There can be no deviation. Three twelfths of the 2018 budget shall be adopted. Here and there there are within the entire concept of provisional twelfths pluses and minuses because of contractual obligations. We see that the Civil List, based on the 2018 figures, is entitled to three million euros over the next three months. We note, however, that there is a doubling of three million more. The question is what is the contractual obligation to double this amount? I can imagine. You knew the King was gonna have a lot of work and a lot of audiences. I don't know if he's gonna have to be generously compensated for that by an additional three million. I would have liked to know what this contractual obligation means, which means that it is not EUR 3 million but EUR 6 million for the Civil List. I realize that, because of my criticism of the Civil List, my group may completely forget to be allowed to drive through the royal gate for an audience. However, that will not wake us up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u205	Mr President, when we close the budget debates, I usually thank the services, although here we are in a particular setting. I think that here we can doubly thank them because they have not only cut down the rather complex and long task of drawing up an initial budget in time and time so that it can be tabled in Parliament in time, but in addition, in a very short time, they have also drawn up these provisional twelfths, so that the continuity of the State can be ensured. My thanks go, of course, first and foremost to the Administration. I would also like to thank our committee chairman, Eric Van Rompuy, who chaired, if I am not mistaken, what should be the committee and the presentation of the last initial budget, since he announced that he would leave afterwards. I think it is appropriate now to thank him, too, for all the work he has done. Thanks to your way of conducting the debates, Mr Van Rompuy, you also made sure that we could – the reality of the field has changed things – vote the initial 2019 in time and, again, here, the provisional twelfths. [[Applause]] As far as the wellness envelope is concerned, there is something quite interesting. Parliament asked the Court of Auditors to come to the budget discussions. If he asks him to attend the budgetary discussions on the provisional twelfths, it is in order to be able to benefit from his expertise and experience. I regret, however, that when it comes to making Parliament benefit from its expertise and experience, but it runs counter to the immediate will, not the objective, of some Parliaments, we throw aside its interventions because, on balance, being perfectly in view of the legality proposed in the provisional twelfths, it may not be so important. I understand all the less the stubbornness that I have clearly heard on Parliament's benches that there was an unwavering desire to find a solution for this famous well-being envelope. I would remind you that the government is a minority, but it is the parliamentary majority that is taking over. It is all the more obvious to us, as members of the government, that this wellness envelope was already planned in the 2019 initial. We did not wait for the amendments tabled by the PS or sp.a to wish for this well-being envelope. On the other hand, we are actually proposing to do so in the right order, with the advice and judicious expertise of the Court of Auditors. That is why I have asked the Court of Auditors for a legal note to help us in this direction. There is an appointment clause in January. The wellness envelope is distributed in June. You see, we have time. You want a strong signal to the social partners. But they're already at work. They are already examining how to distribute this envelope. In response to this, to give them a strong signal, I hear that we want to preempt their work, do what they are supposed to do in their place. You first tabled an amendment that was not acceptable, and then a second amendment that still did not fall within the scope of what needs to be done. Now, a third where we think about social security, self-employed people and employees, but we forget about primary spending. All for what? While we are telling you clearly – and Parliament is making it clear – that this well-being envelope, we will ensure that it can be distributed, with the support of the Court of Auditors, which we do not want to neglect. More technical questions were asked. Mr Gilkinet, you have asked the question of transfers of social inspectors between the SPF Social Security and INASTI. What you actually find in the provisional twelfths is just an expression of a reality. The transfer was done. It's a reality on the ground. With regard to the Civil List, it is true that not three twelfths but six twelfths are registered, as required by Article 2 of the Act. It says that in March we have to publish the second disc on the list. Taking into account the fact that we work in January, February and March, it is more than normal that we have reserved six twelfths. That is what I call a contractual obligation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u206	Mr President, the questions on expenditure were mainly addressed to the Minister for the Budget, Mrs Wilmès. She answered it. With regard to this provisional twelfth budget, I have not heard any specific questions on revenue. It is a 'precautionary budget'. We assume that, compared to last year, we are not taking any further steps in the reform process. We are therefore putting a stop to structural reforms at the moment. That is the provisional choice that is made here, which does not mean that it can be changed during the year. I would also like to join in thanking the services, who have managed to do everything so quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u207	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u208	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3432/1+4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3432/1+4) The draft Finance Act consists of 24 articles. The Finance Bill has 24 clauses.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u209	• 3 years old Karin Temmerman cs (3432/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u210	• 7... Ahmed Laaouej cs (3432/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u211	****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u212	Sustained: the amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u213	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 24.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u214	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendments as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u215	A limited general discussion was held in accordance with Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure. Pursuant to rule 116, bills are subject to limited general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u216	The limited general discussion is open. The limited general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u217	Mr President, I refer again to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u218	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The limited general discussion is closed. The limited general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u219	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3366/1+3) We turn to the articles of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3366/1+3) The draft law has 10 articles. The bill has 10 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u220	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u221	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3426/1) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3426/1) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u222	Mr President, we shall stick to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u223	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u224	The vote on the budget will take place later. The vote on the budget will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u225	The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u226	Mr President, the same causes with the same effects, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u227	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. The vote on the 2017 accounts and 2019 budgets of the Chamber of Representatives and of the donations to the political parties will take place later. The vote on the 2017 and 2019 budgets of the House of Representatives and political party endowments will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u228	The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Luk Van Biesen and Mr André Frédéric.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u229	Mr President, we refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u230	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. The vote on the 2017 accounts, the 2018 budgetary adjustments and the 2019 budget proposals will take place later. The vote on the 2017 accounts, the 2018 budget adjustments and the 2019 budget proposals will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u231	In accordance with Article 11 of the Law of 3 December 2017, these Rules of Procedure should be submitted to the Chamber for approval. Pursuant to section 11 of the Act of 3 December 2017, these rules of procedure must be submitted to the Chamber for approval.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u232	The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteurs were Mr David Clarinval and Mr André Frédéric. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. The vote on the Rules of Procedure of the Data Protection Authority will take place later. The vote on the Rules of Procedure of the Data Protection Authority will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u233	The list of three candidates nominated by the Council of State for a position of the French-speaking State Council was communicated to you at the plenary session of 6 December 2018. The list of three candidates presented by the Council of State for a position of French-speaking State Councillor was communicated to you during the plenary session on 6 December 2018. Since the nomination is not unanimous, the Chamber may, in accordance with Article 70 (1) (8) of the Laws on the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, either confirm the list proposed by the Council of State within a maximum period of 30 days from the date of receipt of the notification of the nomination, or propose a second list of three names which are expressly reasoned. Since the presentation is not unanimous, the Chamber may, in accordance with Article 70, § 1, paragraph 8, of the Acts on the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, and within a period of not more than 30 days from the receipt of the communication of that presentation, either confirm the list submitted by the Council of State or present another list of three formally reasoned names. The time limit available to the Chamber to propose a different list or to confirm the list shall expire on 29 December 2018. The time available to the Chamber to present another list or to confirm the list expires on 29 December 2018. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 December 2018, I propose that you confirm the list proposed by the Council of State. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 December 2018, I propose that you confirm the list presented by the Council of State. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u234	In accordance with Article 38 (7) of the Law of 25 ventôse year XI of the notarial office, as amended by the Law of 27 April 2016, the members of the Appointment Committees for the notarial profession are appointed for a period of four years, with the renewal of the mandates of half of the members every two years. In accordance with Article 38 § 7 of the Law of 25 Ventôse an XI containing organization of the notariat, as amended by the Law of 27 April 2016, the members of the Commissions of Appointment for the notariat are appointed for a term of four years, the terms of office of half of the members being renewed every two years. Article 4 of the Law of 27 April 2016 amending the Law of 25 ventôse year XI on notarial duties relating to the Appointment Committees for the notarial profession provides that, when the Appointment Committees were first reconstituted, half of the members would be appointed for a term of two years after the entry into force of this Act. Article 4 of the Law of 27 April 2016 amending the Law of 25 Ventôse an XI containing organization of the notariat with regard to the Commissions of Appointment for the Notariat provides that after the entry into force of this Law and at the first recomposition of the Commissions of Appointment, half of the members must be appointed for a term of two years. In the plenary sessions of 22 December 2016 and 2 February 2017, therefore, half of the members were appointed non-notaries by the Chamber for this period. At the plenary sessions of 22 December 2016 and 2 February 2017, the House appointed half of the non-notary members for this term. This appointment was announced in the Belgian Official Journal of 13 February 2017. This appointment was published in the Moniteur belge on 13 February 2017. The draft law of Mr Philippe Goffin cs amending the law of 25 ventôse year XI in the notary office, in relation to the Appointment Committees for the notary service, adopted by the Chamber on 8 November 2018 was the law of 23 November 2018 published in the Belgian Official Journal of 6 December 2018. Mr Philippe Goffin et al.'s bill amending the law of 25 ventôse an XI containing organization of the notariat with regard to the Commissions of appointment for the notariat – adopted by the House on 8 November 2018 – became the law of 23 November 2018 which was published in the Belgian Moniteur of 6 December 2018. As a transitional measure, Article 3 of the Law of 23 November 2018 amending the Law of 25 ventôse year XI in the notarial office proposes to extend the mandates of current members until 30 June of the year in which their mandate would normally expire. This means that the mandates of half of the members of the Appointment Committees would expire on 30 June 2019. As a transitional measure, it is proposed in Article 3 of the Law of 23 November 2018 amending the Law of 25 Ventôse an XI containing organization of the notariat to extend the terms of office of the current members until 30 June of the year in which their term of office should end. This means that the terms of office of half of the members of the Appointment Boards should expire on June 30, 2019. In accordance with Article 4 of the Royal Decree of 9 March 2001, the vacancies for the mandates of members of the Appointment Committees must be published in the Belgian Official Journal no later than six months before the expiry of the mandates. In accordance with Article 4 of the Royal Decree of 9 March 2001, vacancies for members of the Appointment Boards must be published in the Belgian Moniteur no later than six months before the expiry of the terms of office. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 December 2018, I propose to publish an appeal to the candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 December 2018, I propose that you publish a call for candidates for the Belgian Monitor. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u235	In the last distributed agenda you will find the bill (Mrs Sarah Smeyers) amending the law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and removal of foreign nationals, as regards illegal entry and residence, No. 3398/1, for which consideration was requested. You have read the draft law (Mrs. Sarah Smeyers) amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and removal of aliens, with regard to illegal entry and residence, No. 3398/1, which is requested to be taken into account. Ms Sarah Smeyers postponed her request for consideration. Ms. Sarah Smeyers requested that the request for consideration be deferred. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 December 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Jan Spooren) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 with regard to the labour deal, No. 3430/1, - the bill (Mr Luk Van Biesen, Mr Dirk Van Mechelen and Mr Patrick Dewael) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 as regards the tax provisions of the job deal, No. 3437/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u236	- the proposal (Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Filip Dewinter and Mr Jan Penris) of a declaration revising the Constitution, No. 3431/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u237	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 December 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the draft law (Mr Jan Spooren) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 with a view to implementing the employment deal, No. 3430/1; - the bill (MM. Luk Van Biesen, Dirk Van Mechelen and Patrick Dewael) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 with regard to the tax provisions relating to the employment deal, No 3437/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u238	- the proposal (Ms Barbara Pas and MM. Filip Dewinter and Jan Penris) of a declaration of revision of the Constitution, No. 3431/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u239	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u240	Vote on Amendment No 21 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 4. (3258/6) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 4. (3258/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[60]] Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u241	Mr President, I have a vote for this and the next votes with Mrs Somers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u242	Vote on Amendment No 22 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 9. (3258/6) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 9. (3258/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 54 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 23 of Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an article 11/1(n). (3258/6) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an Article 11/1(n). (3258/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 57 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 24 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an article 11/2(n). (3258/6) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an Article 11/2(n). (3258/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[60]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 25 of Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an article 11/3(n). (3258/6) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an Article 11/3(n). (3258/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 58 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 34 by Christian Brotcorne cs to insert an article 11/4(n). (3258/7) Vote on Amendment No 34 by Christian Brotcorne cs to insert an Article 11/4(n). (3258/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[60]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 26 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an article 11/4(n). (3258/6) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an Article 11/4(n). (3258/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 57 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 27 of Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an article 11/5(n). (3258/6) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an Article 11/5(n). (3258/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u243	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 28 of Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an article 11/6(n). (3258/6) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an Article 11/6(n). (3258/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 57 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 29 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an article 11/7(n). (3258/6) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an Article 11/7(n). (3258/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u244	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 30 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an article 11/8(n). (3258/6) Vote on Amendment No 30 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an Article 11/8(n). (3258/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u245	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 31 of Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an article 11/9(n). (3258/6) Vote on Amendment No 31 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an Article 11/9(n). (3258/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u246	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 32 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an article 11/10(n). (3258/6) Vote on Amendment No 32 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an Article 11/10(n). (3258/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u247	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 33 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an article 11/11(n). (3258/6) Vote on Amendment No 33 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an Article 11/11(n). (3258/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u248	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 20 by Georges Dallemagne cs to insert an article 12/1(n). (3258/5) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Georges Dallemagne cs to insert an Article 12/1(n). (3258/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[55]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u249	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 103 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 33 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3258/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3258/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u250	Vote on Amendment No 6 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an article 2/1(n). (3259/5) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an Article 2/1(n). (3259/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[55]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 4. (3259/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 4. (3259/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 57 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Georges Dallemagne cs on article 5. (3259/6) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Georges Dallemagne cs to Article 5. (3259/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 52 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u251	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 104 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 33 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (3259/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (3259/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u252	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 104 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 33 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3260/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3260/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u253	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Georges Dallemagne cs to insert an article 2/1(n). (3261/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Georges Dallemagne cs to insert an Article 2/1(n). (3261/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 58 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mrs Nahima Lanjri voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u254	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 104 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 33 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (3261/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (3261/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u255	Vote on Amendment No 7 by Gilles Vanden Burre cs inserting an application 8(n). (2298/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Gilles Vanden Burre cs to insert a request 8(n). (2298/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore adopted. Consequently, the amendment was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u256	Mr President, I abstained to point out that the lines have moved in this matter. They took time to move to reach almost unanimous agreement. We're looking forward to it. The amendment on waiting days, rejected in committee about two weeks ago and resubmitted by the opposition, has just been adopted and that is a good thing. Deficiency days are days on which the self-employed do not take care of themselves, having no replacement income during that period. I abstained from saying that voting a resolution addressed to a resigning government is good; it is a step forward. But voting a law is much better. In January, we want to consider a bill. We want it to be debated and voted on in order to move from good intentions to concrete action in favour of the self-employed. That was the object of my abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u257	Thank you, Mr. Delizée.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u258	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution as amended. It will be notified to the government. (2298/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution as amended. This will be made known to the government. (2298/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u259	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 76 Yes No. [[60]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 2686/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 2686/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u260	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 138 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3395/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3395/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u261	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3400/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3400/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u262	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes 78 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 58 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3391/4) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3391/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? (No)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u263	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes 77 Yes No. [[46]] No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 137 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3371/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3371/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Mr Stefaan Vercamer voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u264	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u265	Yes 77 Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 1564/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 1564/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Mr Frank Wilrycx voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u266	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 26) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3303/13) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3303/13) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u267	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes [[85]] Yes No. [[10]] No Abstentions 43 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3406/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3406/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u268	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 28) Yes 122 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3407/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3407/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u269	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Raoul Hedebouw cs inserting a request 4(n). (3416/7) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to insert a request 4(n). (3416/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 29) Yes 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. 101 No Abstentions 35 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Raoul Hedebouw cs inserting a request 3(n). (3416/7) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to insert a request 3(n). (3416/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 30) Yes 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Yes No. 100 No Abstentions 32 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mr Veli Yüksel voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u270	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u271	Yes 104 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 31 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (3416/8) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (3416/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u272	Vote on Amendment No 3 by Karin Temmerman cs to insert an article 8/1(n). (3432/5) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Karin Temmerman cs to insert an Article 8/1(n). (3432/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 32) Yes 57 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to insert an Article 23/1(n). (3432/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to insert an Article 23/1(n). (3432/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u273	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Ahmed Laaouej cs inserting an Article 23/2(n). (3432/5) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to insert an Article 23/2(n). (3432/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u274	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 4 of Barbara Pass on the attached tables. (3432/5) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Barbara Not to the annexed tables. (3432/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 33) Yes 5 Yes No. 104 No Abstentions 29 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 5 of Barbara Pass on the attached tables. (3432/5) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Barbara Not to the annexed tables. (3432/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u275	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 from Barbara Pass on the attached tables. (3432/5) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Barbara Not to the annexed tables. (3432/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u276	The amendment was therefore rejected and the attached tables were adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the annexed tables were adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u277	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 34) Yes 133 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3432/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3432/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u278	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 35) Yes 76 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3366/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3366/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Nahima Lanjri voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u279	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 36) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the CREG budget for the year 2019. It will be brought to the attention of the CREG. Accordingly, the House adopts the budget of the CREG for 2019. This will be made known to CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u280	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. We're gonna take the vote again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u281	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 38) Yes 129 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Chamber of Representatives for the financial year 2017. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2017 budget year accounts of the House of Representatives. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u282	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 39) Yes 117 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court shall adopt the budget of the Chamber of Representatives for the financial year 2019. Accordingly, the House adopts the budget for the 2019 budget year of the House of Representatives. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u283	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 40) Yes 127 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the accounts for the financial year 2017 of the donations to the political parties. As a result, the House adopts the 2017 budget year's accounts of political party endowments. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mr. Laurent Devin voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u284	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 41) Yes 128 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court shall adopt the budget for the financial year 2019 of the donations to the political parties. As a result, the House adopts the budget for the 2019 budget year for political party endowments. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u285	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 42) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 135 Total Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention? Consequently, the Court of Auditors shall adopt the accounts of the Court of Auditors for the financial year 2017. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the accounts for the 2017 budget year of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u286	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u287	Consequently, the Court of Auditors shall adopt the amendment of the 2018 budget of the Court of Auditors. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the 2018 budget of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u288	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u289	Consequently, the Court of Auditors' budget proposals for 2019 are adopted by the Court of Auditors. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2019 budget proposals of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u290	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u291	Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Constitutional Court for the financial year 2017. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2017 budget year accounts of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u292	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u293	Consequently, the Court adopts the 2019 budget proposals of the Constitutional Court. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2019 budget proposals of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u294	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u295	Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the High Council for Justice for the financial year 2017. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2017 budget year accounts of the Supreme Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u296	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u297	Consequently, the Court adopts the 2019 budget proposals of the Supreme Court for Justice. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2019 budget proposals of the Supreme Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u298	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u299	Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision for the financial year 2017. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2017 budget year accounts of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u300	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u301	Consequently, the Court shall adopt the amendment of the budget of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision for the financial year 2018. As a result, the House adopted the adjustment of the 2018 budget of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u302	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u303	Consequently, the Court adopts the 2019 budget proposals of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2019 budget proposals of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u304	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u305	Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of the Intelligence and Security Services for the financial year 2017. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2017 budget year accounts of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u306	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u307	Consequently, the Court adopts the 2019 budget proposals of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services. Accordingly, the House adopted the 2019 budget proposals of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u308	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u309	Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the College of Federal Ombudsmen for the financial year 2017. As a result, the House adopts the 2017 budget year accounts of the College of Federal Ombudsmen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u310	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u311	Consequently, the Court adopts the amendment of the budget for the financial year 2018 of the College of Federal Ombudsmen. Accordingly, the House adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2018 budget year of the College of Federal Ombudsmen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u312	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u313	Consequently, the Court adopts the 2019 budget proposals of the College of Federal Ombudsmen. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2019 budget proposals of the College of Federal Ombudsmen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u314	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u315	Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Data Protection Authority for the financial year 2017. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2017 budget year accounts of the Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u316	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u317	Consequently, the Court adopts the adjustment of the budget of the Data Protection Authority for the financial year 2018. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the 2018 budget of the Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u318	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u319	Consequently, the Court adopts the 2019 budget proposals of the Data Protection Authority. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2019 budget proposals of the Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u320	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u321	Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts for the financial year 2017 of the Appointment Committees for the notary. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2017 budget year accounts of the Commissions de nomination pour le notariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u322	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u323	Consequently, the Chamber adopts the 2019 budget proposals of the Nomination Committees for the Notarial Society. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2019 Budget Proposals of the Nomination Commissions for the Notariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u324	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u325	Consequently, the Court adopts the accounts of the BIM Commission for the financial year 2017. Accordingly, the House adopts the accounts for the 2017 budget year of the MRD Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u326	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u327	Consequently, the Court adopts the BIM Commission's 2019 budget proposals. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2019 budget proposals of the MRD Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u328	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u329	Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Supervisory Body for the financial year 2017. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2017 budget year accounts of the Police Information Review Body.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u330	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u331	Consequently, the Court shall adopt the adjustment of the budget for the financial year 2018 of the Supervisory Body to the police information. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2018 budget year of the Police Information Review Body.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u332	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u333	Consequently, the Court adopts the 2019 budget proposals of the Supervisory Body on the police information. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2019 budget proposals of the Police Information Review Body.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u334	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u335	Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Federal Deontological Commission for the financial year 2017. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2017 budget year accounts of the Federal Ethics Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u336	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u337	Consequently, the Chamber adopts the 2019 budget proposals of the Federal Deontological Commission. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2019 budget proposals of the Federal Ethics Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u338	Colleagues, we have come so far to the end of our work for 2018. I would like to thank you for the mostly constructive, thorough or at least organized way in which we differed in detail this year in this assembly. The turbulent weeks we have had must not make us forget that we have done other thorough work over the last 12 months, which will greatly exceed the delusion of the day. Of the more than 170 laws adopted in 2018, many dealt with the theme of ‘policy renewal', such as laws relating to the code of ethics of public officials, the sponsorship of political parties, the transparency of remuneration, the monitoring of mandates by the Court of Auditors and the cumulation of mandates and remuneration. We have also produced important laws in the socio-economic field, with the law on economic recovery and the strengthening of social cohesion as a matter of priority. Ladies and gentlemen, now that we have come in a little calmer, I hope that we will be able to continue our work here in this assembly until the last day. Moreover, there is still work to be done, including the reform of company law and the Civil Code. All of this is part of an international context that will certainly have important consequences for our country as well: think, for example, of Brexit, of the debate on the future of the European Union and of the trade war between the United States and China. Nor should we forget the threat posed by international terrorism, a threat which unfortunately remains very real in the light of the dramatic events that took place last week in Strasbourg. In the name of our assembly, I wish the Prime Minister, the members of his government and even the former members of his government a prosperous New Year and thank them for their cooperation over the last few months. I think I can say that the government, and especially the Prime Minister, did not avoid the scrutiny and even the confrontation with this Chamber. Our thanks and wishes also go to the Clerk and all the staff of the House, to the journalists who follow our work, not to mention the military commander and all those who ensure the security of the Palace of the Nation. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all a very invigorating, heart-warming holiday. See you next year! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u339	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u340	Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court shall adopt the Rules of Procedure of the Data Protection Authority. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the Rules of Procedure of the Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-20-54-plenair-ip264x.u341	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 10 January 2019. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, January 10, 2019. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, January 10, 2019 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 10 January 2019 at 2.15 p.m.
