ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament 21000 by Mrs Caprasse will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u2	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Think-Pink Association, which raises awareness of breast cancer screening, has been very critical of the new "femina" insurance offered by AG lnsurance, which can be contracted by women treated for breast cancer or other women-specific cancers. The criticisms made relate to the conditions of access to cancer, as people at greatest risk of cancer do not have access to it, such as women over 50 years of age or those who have already been diagnosed with cancer. In addition, the Think-Pink representatives believe that such insurance contributes to the privatization of health and undermines the very principle of social security. Madam Minister, the press has told us that your office initially refused to react because it did not have sufficient information on this insurance. Have you been able to find out since then? What is your view of it and the criticisms made about it? In view of the conditions imposed, do you not consider that this insurance can be a source of discrimination and represent a commodification of health? Is there any agreement with your colleague Mr Peeters in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u3	Mr Senesael, this is a matter for my colleague the Minister for Economic Affairs. You're saying I didn't react, but that's not true. I responded to this information, saying that this risk selection was not acceptable. In any case, it is my colleague Minister for the Economy who can intervene in the event that the insurance policy, to which you refer, violates the anti-discrimination law. In response to a question from Ms Jiroflée, in plenary session on 5 October, Minister Kris Peeters said that he had asked the Autorité des services et marchés financiers (FSMA), the supervisory body of the insurance sector, to analyse the product as quickly as possible. I advise you to turn to him for information on this matter. In addition, the premium that can be paid for a diagnosis of breast cancer is not used to reimburse medical expenses. This insurance product, which I think is quite dangerous and selective, does not receive my agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u4	Mr Senesael, before giving you the floor for your reply, I would like to know from the Minister whether she wishes to stick to an end-hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u5	Madam President, I have to be present at another meeting at 6:00 p.m., so I can stay here until 5:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u6	I give the floor to Mr Senesael for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I fully share your point of view. I apologize, I didn't see your reaction at the time. I would like to ask your colleague Mr Peeters about his attitude in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u8	Mr Terwingen and Mr Blanchart are not yet here to ask their questions. Maybe they'll show up in the afternoon. Merged Questions No. Mr Frédéric's 21598 and Mrs Caprasse's 23226 and 23227 have been postponed. The next item on the agenda is a question from myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u9	Madam Secretary, according to scientific evidence, clinical evolution after a stroke has been achieved about a year. Patients usually show enormous progress in the first year, followed by complete stagnation. Logopedists, however, have informed me that logo therapy would be eligible for reimbursement until after one year after a CVA. My question is whether this refund has been substantiated. Wouldn't it make more sense to limit the refund to one year after the CVA? What is your position on the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u10	Ms Van Camp, in April 2017, a limited reform of the nomenclature was carried out, reducing the number of sessions for the disorder aphasia from a maximum of 480 to a maximum of 288 treatment sessions, based on evidence-based criteria. When changing the maximum number of sessions, it was not considered appropriate to reduce the maximum duration of treatment. This was taken in 2006 by my predecessor from two to four years. The new agreement for the period 2018-2019, concluded between the logopedists and the insurance institutions, provides for a comprehensive reform of the nomenclature "Article 36 of the logopedic benefits in kind' to be developed on the basis of evidence-based practical criteria. There is a working group which will carry out a critical analysis per pathology and propose the necessary reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u11	Madam Minister, it is good to hear that working groups are considering the issue and finding out how the directives and the corresponding refunds can be further aligned with scientific evidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u12	Madam Secretary, people suffering from type II diabetes are entitled to adapted footwear. Apparently, it's one pair every two years. Most people need a summer pair and a winter pair. So it would be interesting to buy two pairs of shoes at the first purchase and then to keep the refund every two years, so that people can replace that summer or winter pair every two years. For people with type II diabetes who have also had foot complications, a new pair is often needed before the time of reimbursement comes. Ideally, they also need the support of a podiatrist. These are two foot care needs that were placed on the round table around type II diabetes. People who have the condition themselves and experts around the table then put in a few things. My questions are as follows. Do you recognize the two needs mentioned? Is there any way to meet those needs?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u13	Mrs Van Camp, two benefits in kind per year have already been reimbursed to the podiatrist in the diabetes care process, if the patients concerned belong to the risk group. In addition, the Committee on Orthopedists' Insurance has been instructed to review the full reimbursement arrangements for orthopaedic shoes in the future. I have no doubt that that committee will also pay a great deal of attention to this important and ever-growing target group. This is, therefore, a matter for the Committee on Orthopedists' Insurance Institutions, which is a little wider.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u14	Madam Secretary, that's good to hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u15	President: Muriel Gerkens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u16	Madam President, Minister, the sector is paying some EUR 300 million in packaging charges on soft drinks. If I'm properly informed, half of it goes back to the Department of Health. Madam Secretary, what are the destinations of these resources? I would like to follow up in which these funds are invested or reinvested in Health. In what way do these resources remain exactly in the domain of our fight against obesity and the healthier lives of people? Are resources still being spent elsewhere? How exactly are these resources used?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u17	Madam President, Ms Van Camp, as confirmed by the Minister of Finance in response to a written question by Mr Gilkinet on 11 January 2016, part of the revenue relating to packaging levy was allocated to the RIZIV, in accordance with Article 67quinquies of the Programme Act of 2 January 2001, inserted by the Act of 20 July 2005. That article states: "From 1 February 2005, an amount of EUR 130 million shall be allocated to the RIZIV for the benefit of medical care insurance, in advance of the excise duties and charges treated as excise duties. From 1 January 2006, the King may, by a decision of the Council of Ministers, amend the amount of the allocation referred to in the previous paragraph. This amount shall therefore be paid in equal monthly instalments." However, Article 67quinquies of the Programme Act of 2 January 2001 was lifted following the entry into force of Article 46 of the Law of 18 April 2017, in the other committee, because it concerned the reform of social security funding. If we sometimes say that the financing of social security was a blur, then that article was part of that blur. It was a pre-reduction which took place regardless of the revenue from excise duties. That is not transparent. It is also uncertain what changes will be made when excise duties change. With the law of 18 April 2017, we have created a new funding of social security. The funding flows were simplified and also made transparent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u18	Madam Secretary, what is specifically envisaged in terms of spending? Or does that just end up in the general budget? Can you tell me what amount or part amount might be used for a particular policy area?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u19	No, the article didn't go beyond what I said. It was an alternative financing of social security. So it is not just about health care, it is about the whole of social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u20	Thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u21	Mrs. Fonck is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u22	Madam Minister, I have already asked a question on the subject before, but I would like to come back to it. Excise duties on soft drinks have increased during this legislature. I keep finding it odd that all the sodas are being shaved along the same lines. The food triangle has been adjusted, but there is still a differentiation between sugared soft drinks, light drinks, so with sweeteners, and plain water. From the point of view of public health and nutrition, it would be more logical to maintain this differentiation for the assessment, i.e. to distinguish the excise duties between soft drinks containing sugar, sweeteners and without sugar and sweeteners. Why wasn't that chosen? Is that still an option for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u23	Mrs Van Camp, it is actually a competence of the Minister of Finance, because it is about fiscal measures. However, he was not prepared to answer the question he was concerned about. It is about excise duties on soft drinks. Only the so-called flavoured waters which contain no sweetener or sugar are exempt from the increase. Furthermore, Minister Van Overtveldt has explained to us that a differentiation on excise duties on soft drinks is a rather complicated matter. They come under headings with fixed numbers and one cannot differentiate in them. Besides, further research was also needed to remove the flavored waters. The zero and light drinks are still included. In the future we still have to look at how we can better reflect that difference between sugar or an alternative sweetener in the policy. We were told that it would be very complicated to split up the types of liquor now. I'm not a tax expert, so I'll just take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u24	Madam Secretary, thank you. I do read between the lines of your answer that you would be able to find such a differentiation. I will certainly inform the Minister responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u25	People already know.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u26	Madam President, Minister, I have already asked a lot of questions on this subject. Assistance dogs are still refused in many hospitals, while according to scientific research, which I mentioned in my previous question, they can easily access certain services and parts of a hospital. Of course, they do not have access to certain critical and acute services, but they do have access to most of the outpatient services. By the way, there's a lot of people with an assistance dog there. In the end, you acknowledged in the discussion that scientific research has indeed shown that assistance dogs should have access to less acute services, without this being a risk to public health, but we both take the advice of the High Health Council. Despite the scientific findings, the Supreme Health Council states that all hospitals are the best to refuse access to assistance dogs. For people with assistance dogs, this is really a big problem. There are hospitals that allow assistance dogs, but many hospitals hide behind the advice of the High Health Council. You proposed last time that there would be a meeting with the Supreme Health Council. I'd like to be willing to do that, just like the representatives of people with an assist dog. There we can then present the findings of the scientific studies and consider how the recommendations of the High Health Council can be adjusted. I've asked the Supreme Health Council for a meeting several times since, but that's just denied. My question is whether you can force an appointment with this institution, which nevertheless falls within your competence, so that we can at least be received and know the rational behind their decision. Many people with an assistance dog are affected by this. Are you willing to hold a meeting with the High Health Council to clear this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u27	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, I believe that such consultation is certainly useful and I am, of course, willing to facilitate it through my cabinet. For me, a meeting can take place in my cabinet or at the Supreme Health Council. In the meantime, the High Health Council has also informed me: "The question of whether it was necessary to review the Council's position and advice on the presence of assistance dogs in hospitals was discussed again at the plenary session of the Infection Control Reflection Group in Health Care on 3 October 2017. There it has been concluded that there were no objective evidence-based reasons for amending the earlier opinion, even though there are institutions that allow animals." The High Health Council points out that its position is flexible, as it leaves each hospital free through the hospital hygiene committees to allow access to certain parts or services when specific measures are taken. At the same time, the Council continues to defend, in principle, a ban on the presence of animals in hospitals. Finally, the Hoge Gezondheidsraad reports that he would first like to study the available literature and seek the advice of the broad expert group before consulting policy makers on this matter. I understand that the Council goes back to its previous opinion, yet is prepared to study the recent literature and await the expert group's advice. I believe that it would indeed be useful to plan a meeting for the next few weeks. I'll ask someone to take that with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u28	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which makes me very satisfied. I am sure that people with assistance dogs are very grateful to us for at least explaining what the rational behind this is and how that can be changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u29	Madam Minister, this is rather a technical question. A number of tests in clinical biology, e.g. tests in molecular diagnostics as described in Articles 33a and 24a, shall be carried out in an accredited laboratory in order to make the nomenclature applicable. Meanwhile, the external controls of the WIV are running at full speed and the quality requirements are becoming increasingly stringent. The practical lines for the laboratories actually approach the requirements for a laboratory accredited by Belac. So what is the point of the additional accreditation if the WIV already has sufficient competence to control the quality of the laboratories and applies the same standards? This is not insignificant for the laboratories, because such accreditation does entail considerable costs. The price tag goes up to tens of thousands of euros per lab. It's almost even become a business that sustains itself. So what is the added value, given that the WIV is perfectly capable of carrying out the checks and audits? Isn't that enough?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u30	Mrs Van Camp, the recognition of clinical biology laboratories is a national recognition by the competent authorities, which must verify that the quality system complies with the standards laid down. This means that it must be in line with the RB of 3 December 1999 and the Practice Directive. The accreditation is an international recognition by an authoritative organisation, which formally recognises that an organisation or person is competent to perform a particular task. As far as conformity and competence are concerned, this is Belgium's Belac of the FPS Economy. Unlike, for example, French laboratories, Belgian laboratories do not require mandatory accreditation for the majority of clinical biology analyses. There, supervision by the Scientific Institute of Public Health is sufficient to ensure quality through the visits to the premises and the monitoring of the results of the external quality assessments. Accreditation is therefore a free choice for Belgian clinical biology laboratories, unless they wish to carry out benefits in kind provided for in Article 24a and/or 33a. The law stipulates that they must have ISO-15189 accreditation for this purpose. That law was established to ensure the quality of the highly specialised analyses, in the interests of the patient. The ISO standard imposes strict monitoring of laboratories, whereby a site visit is carried out almost every year. For the purpose of carrying out those technical audits, Belac calls on experts active in the field of work and with a high level of expertise. It was also intended to reduce the number of laboratories carrying out these analyses, which is entirely in line with the policy of encouraging networking, as well as the concentration of expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u31	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Are there any differences in substance between the two bodies and accreditations in the field of labs, except that accreditation offers international recognition while quality assurance by the WIV is a national recognition?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u32	As I said, accreditation is about the competence to carry out a particular task. The quality system is more general. For this purpose, standards were set and the laboratory's compliance with those horizontal standards is verified. It's two different things with standards that the lab has to meet. One is more persistent in nature, the other is much more variable, for example in the case of new tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u33	Madam Minister, at the beginning of September an article was published in the press about the large number of medicines that are thrown away every year, even calling for them to be given away. The need for close monitoring of stability and quality is a more than justified concern. In my view, it would be better to tackle the cause of the waste and make it possible only to prescribe and provide the required number of pills. It happens very often that one gets a prescription and that the number of pills in the pack goes well beyond the prescription. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Do you agree with this? Are there any concrete plans to settle this? It seems to me to be something that could bring about a good saving, whereby these resources can be reinvested in our patients, our society and our caregivers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u34	Mrs Van Camp, over-prescription is a waste of tons of unused medicines every year. There are several reasons for this. The medicine may have been stored incorrectly, making it unusable. It may also be incompletely used by the patient due to over-packing. The medicine may also be expired. However, it is not appropriate to give medicinal products a second destination. I have therefore said that a certain doctor's proposal to distribute them to other patients is not a good thing. It is important that the quality of the medicines is good and that they are kept in the original packaging. They are then protected from moisture, light and air and the package leaflet contains important information. The medicines should also be properly stored by the first owner, which is difficult to identify afterwards. What did the owner do with it when he got home? Did he put them on a windowsill, got them wet, or did they lie in the sun? None of us can know that. I would therefore prefer to deal with it on the other hand, in particular the prescription behavior and the provision of only the necessary pills. Prescription behavior is very topical today. As you know, we will see through the policy of tightening up who prescribes too much too often. As regards the number of pills required, physicians should take into account the patient's duration of treatment when prescribing a specific pack size of a medicinal product. I am also thinking of the measure we have taken to stop paying back the boxes containing 80 pills Pantomed, but the boxes containing 56 pills. Evidence-based shows that one should not take 80 pills. However, it depends on the pack sizes available on the market. Often there are different pack sizes of the same medicine, but today we have been reported that pharmacists often do not bring in the smaller boxes, but the larger ones. The services of the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products cannot require a company to produce and/or commercialise a particular pack size. The pharmacist, the doctor and the patient also depend on the available pack sizes. Belgian legislation also provides for the possibility of prescribing medicinal products on a dust name. The physician then confines himself to the substance name, strength, form of administration, daily dose and duration of therapy. It is not limited by possible pack sizes. The pharmacist must deliver the medicine, in accordance with the prescription, also in terms of pack size. In this respect, we continue to promote the prescription of dust name.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u35	Madam Minister, these are certainly steps in the right direction, but even if all these steps are taken into account, for example, only if it is really necessary and if the requirement on dust name is taken into account as far as possible in aligning the pack size to the requirement, it is still possible that the pack size does not exist. Is there nothing in the pipeline at this point to see whether only a part of the medicines can be supplied from a particular package? In this case, the pharmacist can guarantee stability and quality, because once patients take the medicine home, they don't know what happens to it. If something were to be put on its feet, such as in the resthouses, where this would be arranged from the pharmacy, then perhaps the supply could be better adapted to the needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u36	During the launch of the action on sleeping drugs last week there was also a general practitioner and a pharmacist present. The pharmacist's representative said there that they are willing to help reduce, for example, the dose of a sedative or a sedative. They can process one pill in, for example, four doses of a quarter to give to a patient. In fact, this is a change in the gallery where this can be done, and in this way people are prevented from taking too many pills or too many doses. The pharmacists want to cooperate in this respect, but they can't do that for everything. According to the law, the pharmacist is supposed to deliver what is on the prescription to the patient. In the case of addiction or phasing out, they are willing to do so. We have already discussed this in the context of the pact with pharmacists. If appointments are made between doctor and pharmacist, one can move a bit. The problem, of course, is that there are so many different pack sizes and doses on the market. It's the firm's decision. We only have the opportunity, as we have done with the PPIs, to remove the largest packaging from the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u37	Madam Secretary, I have two questions on the same subject. They relate to the unfair arrangement whereby dentists and doctors with foreign qualifications are not subject to quotas, which we have already raised on a number of occasions. Thanks to you and the government, there will hopefully soon also be quotas and entrance examinations in Flanders to monitor the quality of the training and to better match supply to demand. Then there will be not too little, but not too many doctors and dentists at work. However, as long as the influx of foreign doctors and dentists is not covered by these quotas, it is difficult to maintain that regime and thus ensure quality. Are you prepared to subject doctors and dentists with a foreign diploma to quotas as well? Why is that? Why is that? Do you not think it would be unfair for us, especially in Flanders, where we have been taking an entrance exam for a long time, to rob so many candidate students for doctor or dentist from their dream job, while at the same time allowing unbridled doctors from abroad to flow in? I come to the second part of the question. Foreign dentists, especially with a European diploma, could also be freely recognised here. That often causes problems with the language. That is why we have tabled a legislative proposal that will impose a language test. What do you think of that? I read in the newspaper that you will support this and that you are working on a proposal to impose one of the three national languages. However, our proposal explicitly asks for knowledge of the language of the region in which the healthcare provider resides. My question has a third part. The field of work brought another unjust case to my attention, particularly regarding the year of internship. Students who obtain the dentist's diploma here can only obtain their final RIZIV number and visa once the last year of internship has been completed effectively. Now it appears that this is not the case for students with a foreign diploma. This means that they can already obtain their final RIZIV number and their visa without having to do the year of internship. Is that right? Would you like to fit a sleeve on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u38	Mrs Van Camp, the integration into the quota of dentists established in Belgium on the basis of recognition of their professional qualifications acquired in another Member State is not an easy issue. The quota as organised in Belgium is not at the same time in the race route. The dentists certified at a Belgian university are subject to quotas at the time when they are given access to vocational training in order to obtain their special professional title. Dentists established in Belgium already have professional qualifications acquired in another Member State. Nevertheless, I think it is a very sensitive issue. I have also set up an important reflection on the mobility of the professional. We analyse different ideas which are possible within the limits of European regulation. In mei 2017 vond in Brussel een Policy dialogue on health, workforce planning and professional mobility plaats. In November 2017, the Conference regulating health professionals took place in an European perspective, where I took the opportunity to present these issues to an expert panel to make progress in the reflection. The imposition of a quota for foreign doctors and the knowledge of one of our national languages were also part of the reflection. It is in the interests of patient safety and it is essential that all professionals, not just healthcare providers who are influxing under Article 145, have the necessary and appropriate language skills. In this context, we are currently drawing up a legislative initiative that will make it possible to better monitor the language skills of all healthcare professionals. This initiative will soon be presented to Parliament. As far as dentists are concerned, I know that there is no discrimination between the national graduates and the European dentists who are established in Belgium. Federal legislation provides that in order to have the title of general dentist and to be able to enjoy the associated RIZIV nomenclature, qualified dentists must undergo one year of additional training. This obligation also exists in the federal legislation for European dentists established in Belgium on the basis of the recognition of the professional qualifications they have acquired in their country of origin. However, since the sixth state reform, the examination of individual cases has been the responsibility of the Communities. I must therefore refer you to the relevant Community Minister with regard to any inequalities in the handling of the dossiers; in Flanders that is Minister Vandeurzen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u39	Madam Minister, it is very interesting that you have submitted both the question of language and the question of quota to the expert committee. Has it answered or not yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u40	(...) representatives of the FOD present and they have all noted this. On that basis we have worked out a number of slopes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u41	I'm very curious. In any case, I hope that the mandatory knowledge of the language of the part of the country in which the health care provider resides will be included in your draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u42	Madam Minister, I ask this question with the necessary caution, because I am not often a guest in this committee. People in my neighborhood alerted me to the problem of the use of nitrous oxide. Perhaps questions have been asked about this before, but I have not been able to find them. Laugh gas or N20 used to be known as anesthetic in surgeries. The gas is also used in the food industry, for example in gas cartridges for whipped cream syringes. However, it can also be used as a drug. Laughing gas is a volatile sniffing agent that immediately causes a euphoric rush. I do not speak here from my own experience, but I have read a number of articles about it. Madam Minister, my specific questions to you are as follows. In your reply to a written question dated 24 September, you indicated that an interadministrative working group had been set up by the FAGG. What are the conclusions of this working group? Can you give us any figures on the use of nitrous oxide outside the medical setting, as a drug? What measures or actions will you take on the basis of this data?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u43	Mr Terwingen, the interadministrative working group has not been able to conclude that the recreational abuse of nitrous oxide by young people is currently taking on problematic forms. As a survey of the working group shows, it is possible that local use exists in some cities. However, this is of short duration. The various organizations for helping drug addicts are not asking for rules or penalties to be imposed on them, because they say that this could have a counter-productive effect. There is also a fear that this would stimulate the experimental behaviour of young people. The Working Group considered that it would be more appropriate in this context to focus energy on the fight against other drugs, which currently pose a much higher risk to public health and are also being used much more. The availability of nitrous oxide as a medicine is strictly regulated and can only be delivered within a hospital environment. These products are therefore not available for recreational use by young people. The additional regulation and thus limiting the availability of nitrous oxide for other uses would have an impact on its use in the regular food industry, as this gas is used as an approved food additive. I don't know exactly what it is, but it's a food additive. It is used as an antioxidant, as a foaming agent, as a packaging gas and as a propellant. It is a question of knowing the possible consequences and the advantages and disadvantages of a given measure and of knowing what the framework of the problem is. When it comes to the number of people who use it as a drug, we can only continue on what is said within the associations dealing with toxicomania and aid associations. Of course, they do not keep statistics on this. It's an illegal circuit. It is important, however, that we discuss with them whether this should be addressed and whether this is the main problem. Their answer is negative. They are not in favour of taking any further steps in this regard. If anyone has any idea that could help us at political level or on the ground, it goes without saying that I am prepared to take action. So far, however, no one has found what we could really do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u44	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which is reassuring both socially and medically. If the problem is not large-scale, it goes without saying that we should not give it too much publicity, so as not to change people's minds. That's how I summarize your answer. In 2015 you announced that it would be investigated, and therefore it seemed appropriate to bring it to my attention again. In this way, I think the follow-up is okay. We must try to identify the issue as much as possible, through consultation with the associations concerned which deal with toxicomanic problems. In this way, we can intervene if it becomes a bigger problem, which at least it is not now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u45	Apparently, it's place-bound, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u46	Apparently.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u47	Most say it doesn't happen to them, others say there's movement in them. It's temporary, and it's not swarming.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u48	That's reassuring.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u49	Madam President, Minister, in the course of this legislature, you have said on several occasions that you want to focus on a general reduction in the consumption of sugar by the population. Recently it appeared in the press that the supermarkets are also making a lot of use of them and that, without our knowledge, a lot of sugar has already been extracted from many products. Madam Minister, can you give an overview of all the measures you have already taken in this area? Was there a zero reading? What are the results of the measures to ensure that the results you had in mind were achieved and that you are on track with your expectations? Will there be any further policy measures in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u50	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, the Belgian food industry, united in the Fevia sector federation and the large Comeos distribution sector, has indeed committed to reducing the energy content in food between 2012 and the end of 2017, with quantified commitments for the various sub-sectors. For example, the Belgian dairy sector has committed itself to a reduction of 3% in added sugars, the soy-based sector by 4%, the soft drinks sector by 5% and the cereal sector by 4%. Fevia and Comeos reported on this. They have also communicated that there are already more than 300 tonnes of sugar in our diet each year compared to the past. I have not yet received a report, but that is good news. In the covenant we prepare a follow-up. I expect further steps can be taken. I am pleased that these sectors have taken on their responsibilities, because it is really necessary to reduce the too high energy content in our products in order to achieve a more balanced composition. In addition to reporting, we are also working on an independent monitoring, through samples, to check whether the energy content continues to go down. We will continue to monitor in a dynamic way the evolution of the food composition of the products on the market. We are also talking about the possibility of a follow-up to the 2020 commitment. The priority challenges remain the same, namely the reduction of sugar and fat content and an adjustment of the portion size. Secondly, we also want to introduce more fiber into the diet. The Belgian Pledge was also important, with more companies joining. The Belgian Pledge also covers advertising for minors, in the sense that efforts are being made not to advertise unhealthy matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u51	Madam Secretary, if the report is forwarded to you, perhaps it could be asked to deliver it to our committee as well. I know that we from different groups follow this issue closely. I think we'll all be curious to see the exact figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u52	The sectors do their own monitoring. They also asked to be able to make those reductions at their own pace because they want to remain competitive in terms of taste. I have noticed, for example, that in the case of soft drinks, the former sugars have been replaced by a combination of ten different artificial sweeteners. Anyone who drinks that gets a refreshing effect on the taste buds. The aftertaste of a product is also important. This all has to do with peaks and valleys. It's actually incredible to see how much study they do for that. They also test the effect of the color and the smell. For example, in southern countries, with a warm climate, there are other colours for certain soft drinks, so they look more thirsty and fresher. Moreover, they are all in competition with each other and our market is not closed. Therefore, they want to maintain their market share, but by placing more emphasis on, for example, cereals which, for example, contain 40% less sugar and are therefore healthier for consumers and children. The trend is in the right direction. I am glad that they have achieved their goals, but I will also be happy if there is another follow-up, because it must not stop there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u53	I understood in your answer that you were doing a parallel monitoring of the compositions of the products yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u54	No, we're installing that in addition. They practice self-monitoring, because they know what's in their products. But in addition, the Agency will still carry out tests and take samples to check if this is correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u55	It's only on its way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u56	We're setting it up. This will be an independent monitoring. For now, it's about self monitoring. Trust exists, of course, because of competition. If it wasn't fair, the competitors could denounce it, but anyway, we're going to set up an independent monitoring. The zero measurement took place in 2012.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u57	Of course, if you have five candies containing less sugar, but you eat five, while you only eat one before,... We must also ensure that we do not push for consumption!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u58	It is also a question of education. That's why we created the Pledge. Instead of saying to children, "you have to drink zero sugar or light soda," you can tell them that it is better to drink water. They can be allowed to drink a soda from time to time, but not every day. This is part of household education and habits. If the children see that the parents drink coca, the children will do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u59	Madam President, Minister, under the third protocol agreement concluded in 2005, it was agreed that RIZIV would provide funding for research into alternative and supportive care for vulnerable elderly people. The aim of the Protocol was to bring about a renewal of care and to encourage initiatives that offer or develop alternative forms of care, so that vulnerable elderly people can stay home longer. The aim is to evaluate, at the end of the programme, the added value of the initiatives and, where appropriate, how they could be anchored in a structural way. After a first project call in 2009, 47 projects were selected in Flanders. A number of projects were transferred to the Communities and the Regions under the Sixth State Reform. After a second project call 12 Flemish projects were selected again. The Royal Decree of 2 July 2009 states that the final objective is to decide on the structural anchoring of the projects on the basis of evaluations and the final report of the scientific team. Menos, one of the projects, has been funded since 2010 under healthcare renewal projects protocol 3 and has been extended to the end of 2018 after evaluation in 2014. Since then, there have been many positive evaluations of the project by the RIZIV. Scientific evaluations by LUCAS have shown that, thanks to Menos' guidance, a residential intake of the elderly person can be postponed by an average of 260 days, which was of course a very positive result. If the financing of Menos stops, the continuation of a very valuable project will of course be compromised, a project that is already an example of how to provide care in the future, namely quality care and support that is shaped by a multidisciplinary and intersectoral cooperation, not again a new service alongside the other, but where the expertise and expertise of existing services are used, with a functioning that not only works with the client or patient but is embedded in the whole context, an action that focuses on empowering the patient, supporting the caregivers and case management. Those are the key words of the operation. I have the following question, Madam Secretary. Can the projects positively evaluated by the RIZIV since the extension from 1 July 2015 and which have not been transferred to Flanders, count on a structural anchoring with corresponding funding or, at least, a transitional funding, pending the possible roll-out of new concepts, in which they might be placed again?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u60	Madam President, Mr Terwingen, the contracts between the projects of the Insurance Committee and the Insurance Committee of the RIZIV run until 31 August 2018. On 15 January 2018, the Insurance Committee was able to take note of the final report of the scientific team and the recommendations proposed by this team. In the meantime, I have also taken note of the study that reports on the impact of interventions in vulnerable elderly people, namely case management, ergotherapy and psychological support. The investigation was conducted at aggregated level and does not make individual statements per project. The scientific evaluation is therefore carried out at an aggregated transversal level. The evaluations of the RIZIV you are reviewing are another matter. This concerns the individual administrative follow-up of the convention by the competent department of the RIZIV. It is simply a question of whether or not the agreement has been properly respected and whether or not there is reason to stop. You confuse the evaluation with the evaluation of the added value at the scientific level of the quality of care. I felt that there were insufficient elements to answer the essential question as to which project produces the most health benefits at the best cost-efficiency. After all, there were quite a few differences between the projects. I have therefore instructed my services to provide these additional elements by the end of March 2018 at the latest, in order to determine the conditions under which certain projects can be continued. My intention is to clarify the projects by then. After all, it is important for people to know if they can continue this work after October 2018. It is also important for the people who call on it, because there are people who, for example, can stay in their homes for longer thanks to these projects. It is also important to provide the opportunity to ensure the continuity of what seems to be valuable interventions in relation to patients who are using them today. If the patient can only stay in his home thanks to the fact that someone from such a project still comes by at night or at night to give certain concerns, then there would be a lot of consequences, should that project suddenly disappear. Patients would no longer be able to stay in their homes, but would not be able to go elsewhere immediately if they wanted to. So we have to be careful about this. On the other hand, some projects give a good picture of how much longer people can continue to work independently thanks to this aid. In other projects, much less attention was paid to this. That is why we will look further at the additional elements that we have requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u61	Madam Secretary, measuring is knowing. This must be looked at rationally, and I fully agree with it, perhaps even as a lawyer rather than as a member of this committee. On the other hand, you yourself stress the importance of these different projects. If this is the way to help senior citizens and avoid other initiatives such as residential residences, then this must be used. It is to your credit, Madam Secretary, that you will request further information on this matter and then re-evaluate it. I suppose we will hear more about this in March or April 2018. I will then possibly ask a follow-up question about the state of play and to know what information you will have to decide which projects are valuable and can count on your further support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u62	Madam Secretary, to my most recent question on the combination of hospital and home care, Question No 16646, you replied that there would be a register of healthcare professionals in the course of 2017. That land register would be linked to the activity data of the RIZIV and the RSZ, in order to get a current dynamic picture of, among other things, the number of nurses working in this country. This would give us a better view of our needs and would allow us to better adapt the supply to them. Today we have really guessed about that, because there are no reliable figures available. There are now projects started at the doctors and dentists. What about the continuation of this? When can we expect the dynamic register of nurses?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u63	Mrs Van Camp, within the Public Health Office, a data link is indeed being prepared to map the activity of the recognised healthcare professionals. Since 2011, several occupational groups have been analysed in this way. The final reports of these PlanCad data links can be consulted on the Planning Committee's website. A renewed procedure was agreed with the representatives of the Datawarehouse Labour Market and Social Protection in the course of 2017. Such a procedure should allow the simultaneous application of data to data providers for multiple professions, thus reducing the administrative workload. The dossier in question was submitted to the Sectoral Committee of Social Security and Health at the beginning of July 2017 and was examined by that Committee at its meeting of 7 November 2017. At present we are at the stage of drawing up the research contract, at the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. The reception of the first data is expected for this semester, so before the summer. In the course of 2018, the analyses will be carried out and the report for nursing will be prepared.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u64	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u65	Madam President, Minister, last year I tabled a legislative proposal on behalf of my group to automatically extend and grant the GMD grant. The subsequent hearings highlighted the importance of monitoring cost-effectiveness and efficiency. The committee has already received estimates of the costs of the GMD, but it is also important that we should be able to take into account what we get in place, what are the benefits. We understand that the cabinet would draw up a cost-benefit study to see what the return on investment of GMDs is. For example, whether GMD holders reduce costs in terms of double studies, second line costs, follow-up and so on. A study on the cost of the GMD is already available, but as far as I know there is no real effectiveness or cost-benefit study yet. My question is therefore what is the position and when we can expect the results of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u66	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, the completion of a cost-efficiency study of the GMD is only possible if patients' diagnoses are available. The picture that exists in the hospital environment, with invoicing data linked to medical data, is essential in this information to compare the diagnosis................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. These data are not available at the RIZIV as they are not reported to the RIZIV. In September 2017, a discussion took place in the Sectoral Committee of Social Security and Health, where for the first time the link between invoicing data of the mutualities and the medical data of the INTEGO database was allowed. The INTEGO database, in which coded personal data relating to health have been registered since 1995, will become the Disease Database. This link offers new perspectives whose validity has yet to be assessed. However, a study, carried out by the Medical Evaluation and Control Service of the RIZIV, presented to the National Commission on Doctors-Sickness Funds on 30 June 2017, showed that the aim of centralising the patient's relevant information is only partially realised. The efforts to monitor the completeness of the GMD and the mandatory registration of certain parameters for the patient's follow-up are certainly worthwhile. For this reason, the National Agreement on Doctors-Sickness Funds for 2018 and 2019 included the GMD in one of the seven principles. The actions were included under point 4.1.1. The information contained in a GMD file is not always adequate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u67	I am always surprised how little data we actually have, for example on diagnostics, is very important to follow up on issues such as consumer trends. I think that we are lagging behind the Scandinavian countries, for example. We just got back from a work visit in Sweden, where they do have those databases. The speaker after the speaker confirmed the added value of this. It is a pity that we do not have it and that we are investing in a GMD without being able to follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u68	The encryption has been a tricky point for a long time. That's what I've been hearing here for years. The GMD will be shut down, but the encryption will not be done enough. The data contained in the GMD are not accurate enough. That is what we are trying to impose now, for example with the telematics premium, to charge the SUMEHR so that they are in the GMD. We have come a long way, but it is not the case that there is no attention to this, because that is what is in all the agreements. This is also linked to the provision of these telematics premiums. It's not enough that the patient has a GMD, it has to be a full GMD. If the patient will be able to see his GMD through the Patient Health Viewer, he will also notice if his doctor has charged enough information. The patient will be able to see if a SUMEHR is charged. That will also be a great step forward. People will get a message after a doctor's visit if anything changes the file. They will then be able to check what changes have been made. That is probably the diagnosis of their last consultation or the incoming results of investigations that took place at that time. It is very important that we involve the patient in this story, because ultimately the added value lies in the health of the patient. People who care about their health will want to go to a doctor who stores the data well so that they can be used elsewhere, for example in a hospitalization.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u69	If I understand correctly, if the data are recorded better, we will only have diagnostic data from patients with a GMD, so it is not yet possible to distinguish or, for example, to conduct a cost-effectiveness study to compare patients who have a GMD and patients who do not have a GMD. That's what I'm worried about. At the committee meeting on big data, I heard that a pilot project had been announced on this subject in order to better collect the data. This, combined with the measures to improve the collection of data on the GMD, may produce the necessary results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u70	These pilot projects are being carried out within the framework of the eHealth platform and we are already very advanced. However, you were one of the few present at the beginning of the parliamentary term. There were a lot of Indian stories about this in the committee itself. Maybe we'll have to invite a Swede to come and explain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u71	That had happened, that was also one of our speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u72	This is the whole difficulty: a system built from the start with all the actors or a system built sometimes without them. In my opinion, it is sometimes the problem of joining the project.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u73	Madam Secretary, I hear more and more from healthcare professionals, not only doctors but also paramedics, that patients make an appointment, but do not show up without warning. The medical sector talks about one in twenty and a loss of income from one hundred to two hundred and fifty euros a week. A doctor may ask for compensation if a patient fails to comply with his appointment without warning, but only 7% of doctors do. Four out of ten doctors never charge compensation, for example because they do not consider it customer-friendly and there is also a natural market effect in the sector. Firstly, do you recognise the problem? Secondly, in addition to compensation, do you see a possible solution, for example through agreements with the sector to better regulate this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u74	Mrs Van Camp, the current medical deontological code makes it perfectly possible for the doctor to ask the patient for reasonable compensation if he fails to comply with an appointment without warning. This is not only the case with doctors, but also with dentists and physicists. Whether or not compensation is sought must be decided by the doctor himself. Maybe he or she doesn't think it's advisable to do that because of his relationship with the patient, or rather. Since the possibility exists, the government does not have to impose a regulation. I've been there, too. If that happens once, one can decide that the patient may not get there. If patients systematically do not show up for appointments, it can be said that it must be the last time; if not, they will indeed pay for them. The danger is that people will never see these patients again, which may be a good thing. The doctor can decide for himself, it remains a liberal profession. I'm assuming one of them has more trouble than the other. The same applies to physicists and dentists; they decide for themselves whether and what they do about it. It is important that they have the possibility to request compensation for this, as well as the possibility of not giving an appointment next time. This is important: if the consultation is not urgent, a patient can be refused on the basis of these facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u75	Madam Minister, this is my written question No. 1175, which was submitted in October 2016. Since the deadline for reply has been well exceeded and I have not yet received an answer after a year, I exercise my right to put them here as an oral question. It deals with the vision for the reform of hospital funding, which you have just explained to us in Parliament. At that time, you stated that centralisation was rightly an important issue for you. This also applies to the laboratory practices of hospitals. I ask my question to gain a better understanding of the matter. How many hospitals in this country and how many of them have their own lab? I would like to get the total figures, broken down by country area, Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia. Can you, broken down by hospital with lab and hospital without your own lab, indicate what type of tests are being carried out and how many such tests are being carried out annually? Can I get an overview of the total cost of the labs, both of the operating costs and of the costs for the labs themselves? Is there a difference in cost for the same tests that take place in the hospital labs versus the tests that are outsourced, just focusing on the labs themselves? For which studies there may be a difference? Finally, do you have plans to centralize the laboratory functions of the hospitals more? What plans do you have in this regard? In what way do you intend to achieve them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u76	Mrs Van Camp, the written questions will be forwarded directly to my services. However, both the FPS Public Health and the RIZIV cannot follow the pace of the questions. As you know, we are making a linear reduction in the number of employees in the administration. The number of staff who can be used for parliamentary questions is therefore limited. This is a very technical question. I'm defending my services. They really do their best, but they are simply over-questioned, given the number of incoming questions. Nevertheless, we have received an answer to your question. The services are always trying to provide good answers in terms of content and to give the figures you have asked for. The number of hospitals with their own labs, broken down by part of the country, is shown in the attached table. It concerns 62 hospitals in Flanders with 49 own labs; 14 hospitals in Brussels, of which 10 have their own labs and 39 hospitals in Wallonia, of which 32 have their own labs. I have here an Excel file with the expenses and the number of performances for clinical biology. These are broken down by group and sub-group of the nomenclature. It is also indicated whether or not the hospital has its own lab. The selected performance includes clinical biology, the N08, N47 and N60 of the nomenclature. So it's not about anatomopathology or genetic performance. It is also just the hospitalized patients, not the outpatient ones, in general hospitals. As regards the second point of your second question, the demand for an overview of the costs of the overall lab, both operating costs and laboratory tests, the RIZIV says that it does not have access to data on the costs of the labs. As for the third point of your second question, whether a laboratory analysis is carried out in a hospital lab or outsourced to another laboratory: the fee is the same, both for the RIZIV and for the patient. The clinical biologist is honored for the analysis or is paid a flat fee. If a lab subcontracts the tests, they must agree between themselves on the fee, but the total price of the test should not be higher. Neither the patient nor the health insurance has to pay more because a lab subcontracts the treatment of a test to another lab. As far as your third question is concerned, for molecular biology, laboratories must obtain ISO accreditation. There is only a limited number of labs that have obtained this accreditation and therefore carry out these tests. As far as next-generation sequencing panels are concerned, they are also genetic testing and testing of molecular biology. So here too, only a limited number of laboratories will be eligible to carry out these tests. For routine lab tests such as clotting and so on, there are no plans for centralization because they should actually be possible in any hospital. I'll get you the documents on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u77	Madam Minister, this question was my written question No. 1213 submitted in October 2016. She's almost a year and a half now and I haven't received an answer yet. This question is about hepatitis C. First of all, I would like to welcome the initiatives you have taken to treat hepatitis C. It is our continued commitment to freeing resources for new needs. This commitment has enabled these new needs to be met. Hepatitis C is a good example of this. The treatment plan is ambitious and yet realistic. As far as targeted screening is concerned, I do not think that we are putting the funds into full use today where they are needed. It seems to me to be more targeted, for example, to screen with a certain generation, for example, the baby boomers, while the current generalised screening of pregnant women is likely to pass its target, as they are not baby boomers. I actually have a hunch earlier and in order to gain more insight, I wanted to collect some figures on that. Is it true that pregnant women are systematically screened for hepatitis C? What other target groups are being systematically screened? Are men who have sex with men and drug users screened? Can you indicate how many people in this country are being screened for hepatitis C every year? I would like to get the numbers of the last five years, the total and broken down by state and by target group; the latter is, for example, about the number of pregnant women being screened. Can you indicate in how many cases the screening results in a confirmed positive result, both for the total and for the breakdown by target groups? This is in order to be able to assess the statement I made, namely that a lower number of positive results can be found in pregnant women today. How is it screened, with a blood sample or a saliva test? Can you give me numbers on that? Do you have any idea of the cost of the current screening, as is happening today? Do you have any plans to modify that screening? In your plan to treat hepatitis C, screening is an important puzzle piece. Will you bear the costs at the federal level? Or will you contact your state colleagues for this? How will the population understand that they can be screened to cure hepatitis C, even though many know that they are not infected, because that is actually in the measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u78	I get a lot of questions about prevention and also vaccination, while everyone knows that prevention is a matter for the Länder. Some people have missed a few state reforms here. We ourselves have no figures on how many early detections are organised. According to the information available to us, nothing is known about a population survey to organise early detection. For hepatitis C, we have indeed made the reimbursement possible, for stages 4, 3 and 2. It is also intended to do so before stages 1 and 0. Blood samples are taken in risk groups. There are also coincidental finds. Some people have not yet failed liver function but have been infected with hepatitis C. We are also trying to point out with the organisations on the ground, such as Sensoa, the importance of early testing, either by means of a self-test and referral, or by means of a thorough screening of risk behaviour, such as in men who have sex with men or drug users. This standard is tested in pregnant women and women with a child's wish. We do have information on this, although I am told that this is difficult to get out. These cases can be found in the Länder. We are also trying to make agreements with them on screening. Sometimes part of the costs, e.g. cervical screening, are also borne by the federal government. If something is being transferred, I would like it to be taken into account. I have always been a cool lover of the fact that only the preventive is transferred and not the curative, but it is necessary for it to happen. We will work with the resources we have for the transfer, but then everyone will have to take responsibility. I'm counting on my colleagues to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u79	Madam Secretary, I agree. We'll have it questioned there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u80	We now come to the question No. 21790 by Mrs Van Camp on the prescription on dust names.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u81	Madam President, I had already informed the secretariat that I had already received an answer, but that question was still on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u82	The answer was sent to the Chamber on 20 December.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u83	For question No. 21792 about Rilatine is the same. I have also received that reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u84	Madam President, I do not know what needs to be done with Question No 5, by Mr von der Vring and others. Question No 22217, by Mrs Fonck: 23184 and 23190 by Mr Blanchart, who had been merged with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u85	I'll recap it. This was initially a written question, to which you did not get an answer. You then turned him into an oral question. But in the meantime, you have received an answer. This question therefore becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u86	Madam President, there are still four questions on the agenda from me, originally written questions, which are already pending from about October 2016. That includes the question of back operations. Madam Minister, I have heard on the ground that the number of back operations is increasing enormously. With my question I wanted to ask you about figures in this respect. Can you provide figures on the number of back operations carried out annually over the past five years in total and broken down by Land? What kind of intervention is being carried out exactly? Do we know the indications for which the back operations are being carried out? Which is the age of the patients? Do we have an overview of the guidelines from the government? Are they monitored or monitored? Do we know anything about the success of these interventions? For example, how many people need multiple interventions? How many people have been permanently relieved of their back pain after surgery? Finally, what budget is spent annually on back operations, in total and broken down by Land?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u87	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, this question too is very technical, but I will give you the many figures. The figures are from the year 2012. The number of back operations per year was 31 333. In 2016 there were 31 352. So there is no huge increase, not even in the Länder. In Flanders, the number of back operations has even decreased slightly, i.e. 500 less in 2016, but the numbers are about the same. The interventions can be found in Article 14 (k) of the Nomenclature and will be followed up in the periodic audit of the RIZIV and in the quarterly analysis of the expenditure and cases. It's about back surgery and the distinction between surgery with or without vertebral fusion per year. I also have a table of figures. In 2012 the total was 31 333 and in 2016 the total was 31 352, i.e. no increase, quod non. In the number of operations without vertebral fusion there is a slight increase and in the number with vertebral fusion a slight decrease over those six years. Now I come to the number of back operations per age group in the last five years. In total, there are some 31 000 operations in 2012 and some 31 000 in 2016. There are hardly any fluctuations. You can read the figures in the table I'm handing you. The first age group is 0 to 4 years and the last is 95+. In May 2017, the Knowledge Centre updated the clinical guideline on low back pain and radicular pain, based on the latest scientific evidence. Afterwards, the Knowledge Centre published the so-called Care Path for Low Back Pain, in collaboration with the various healthcare disciplines and patients. An interactive tool was also developed. This care path determines on a case-by-case basis and per patient how the complaints are best dealt with. It proposes which studies to perform, and when and what is the best treatment. The nomenclature of back operations is still in the process of being revised. The operating technique used will be the starting point for the delivery. A link is also made with the registration of the indication leading to back surgery. An analysis in preparation of the new nomenclature, carried out on the data for the period 2007-2010, found that for the operations with vertebral fusion there were redodophysics in 18,78 % of the cases and for those without fusion in 18,96 %. The registry of patient-reported outcome measures, which will soon start as a pilot, will provide a better answer in the future. It measures how the patient's quality of life has changed before and after back surgery. I then come to the annual amount, refunded for back operations per state. For Brussels, EUR 1.2 million, EUR 13 million for Flanders and EUR 6 million for Wallonia. There is also a group of 'Missing', which cannot be brought home and which amounts to EUR 108 000. You will find these figures in the table I will give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u88	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I'll take a look at this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u89	The annexes will be communicated to the secretariat of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u90	This is a more detailed answer, by age category.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u91	So there is an annex and figures for this question and also for the ziekenhuislabo's. The secretariat will make this additional information available to all on the Committee's extranet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u92	Madam Minister, again this is a written question from October 2016, in this case about cholesterol lowering. There is still very often the use of medicines in the event of cholesterol problems rather than addressing the causes. What are the exact conditions for the refund of a cholesterol reduction? For the past five years, for the total and split by state, can you give an overview of the use of cholesterol inhibitors? What are the most prescribed and refunded types? Can you indicate the total number of DDDs and packages sold? What are the most prescribed species and brands? What are the total expenditure on cholesterol reductions? What is your opinion on the evolution of the use of cholesterol lowering agents? Are there any policy adjustments on the table in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u93	Mrs Van Camp, I have a lot of figures and tables for this too, and I will hand them over to you. The split-up by state does not make it easier to extract all that data. That could also explain why the administration needs so much time to get hold of all that data. The recent European directives on the consumption of statins take into account not only cholesterol values, but also the overall overall risk of a cardiovascular incident, taking into account the main risk factors simultaneously. The so-called classic risk factors are the incidence of diabetes, hypercholesterolaemia, hypertension, smoking behaviour and age. There would also be a slightly higher predestination in the male sex. I take it Unia can't do much about that. The association of Belgian specialists involved fully supports the European directives. The statins will be refunded without prior authorization from the counseling physician, as stated in Chapter 1. Only for the indication of familial hypercholesterolaemia a small part of our population is truly genetically predisposed to so-called hypercholesterolaemia A.. is a prior authorisation of the counseling physician required. For those people, only certain medications can be used. The new cholesterol lowering agents, evolocumab and alirocumab, are human monoclonal antibodies for the treatment of hypercholesterolaemia. Those medicines should be administered by subcutaneous injection once a month or every two weeks. One can train the patient so that he or she can do the injection himself. The target group receiving reimbursement consists of patients with family hypercholesterolaemia who also have a significantly increased cardiovascular risk and who, despite treatment with the classic cholesterol lowering agents, need additional cholesterol reductions. The cost of these medicines is very high, about 5 500 euros per patient per year. They are reimbursed under an agreement between the company and the RIZIV due to the very high cost of the treatments and the uncertainties in clinical efficacy and the number of patients that will be able to be treated. I have the tables you asked for. They provide an overview of the use of hypolipemics for the period 2012-2016, the top five of cholesterol reductions by region, according to RIZIV spending and according to the number of defined daily doses for 2016. As far as statins are concerned, there is currently an evaluation by the Commission of medicinal products to harmonise the methods of reimbursement. That should allow expenditure related to the use of those medicines to be reduced. I also have a table for you concerning public official services excluding rest homes and the use in rest homes. In the two tables the data are broken down by cholesterol reduction and by region. There is also a table showing the top five cholesterol reductions per region, according to RIZIV expenditure and according to the number of defined daily doses for 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u94	On this issue too, we will make the annex available to all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u95	Madam Minister, this question also dates back to October 2016. Which painkillers will be refunded under what conditions? For the past few years, for the total and split by state, can you give an overview of the use of painkillers? Are there data on the prescribed number, with a breakdown by species? Are there any data on the number of DDDs of the different types of painkillers provided on prescription? Can you also give us an overview of expenditure?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u96	Mrs Van Camp, the following classes of painkillers are reimbursed: opioids and medicinal products containing paracetamol as an active substance. I do not consider the medicines for migraines. The reimbursement of analgesics in the context of chronic pain is determined according to three different regulations. First, the Royal Decree of 3 June 2007 implementing Article 37, Paragraph 16a, paragraph 3, and paragraph 4 of the Law on compulsory medical care and benefits, was coordinated on 14 July 1994, as regards analgesics. These are analgesics based on paracetamol or the combination of paracetamol and codeine, which appear on the list annexed to the Decision. They are indicated for the treatment of persistent chronic pain, i.e. pain that persists after optimal curative treatment for at least three months or that persists after curative treatment of a disease of malignant chronic pain. These include pain caused by cancers, or some cases of chronic arthritis or osteoarthritis, neurogenic or neuropathic pain of central or peripheral origin, such as multiple sclerosis, peripheral vascular pain, ischaemic pain, post-surgical pain, including phantom pain, and fibromyalgia. The treating doctor or doctor who manages the overall medical record of the patient provides a notification of the chronic pain to the counseling doctor of the patient's health insurance fund. The compulsory insurance allowance consists of 20% of the price of the analgesic included in the list and may be granted on the basis of an authorization from the medical adviser. A second regulatory basis is the Royal Decree of 12 October 2004 laying down the conditions under which compulsory medical care and benefits cover the costs of the majestic preparations and similar products. The following raw materials shall be reimbursed if they are incorporated into the preparation used in the treatment of one or more chronic pains: acetylsalicylic acid, codeine and codeine phosphate, hemihydrate, caffeine anhydrous, paracetamol, but only in suppository, or paracetamol crystal. The treating physician shall draw up a reasoned report confirming the diagnosis. That report shall also be sent to the medical adviser of the patient's sickness fund. The allowance for compulsory medical care and benefits is granted on the basis of the authorization of the medical adviser. The allowance shall be the difference between the total cost of the majestic preparation and the personal share of the non-hospital holder. Finally, a third regulatory basis is the Royal Decree of 21 December 2001 laying down the procedures, time limits and conditions for the reimbursement of compulsory medical care insurance and benefits in respect of the costs of proprietary medicinal products. This concerns the analgesics based on paracetamol or also the combination of paracetamol/codeine, which appear on the list of recoverable specialities. They are indicated for the treatment of persistent chronic pain, i.e. pain that persists after optimal curative treatment for at least six months or that persists after curative treatment of a disease of malignant chronic pain caused by a chronic condition such as cancer pain, chronic arthritis, osteoarthritis, neurogenic or neuropathic pain of central or peripheral origin, peripheral vascular pain, post-surgical pain and fibromyalgia. The treating doctor or the doctor managing the global medical record shall also submit an application for reimbursement to the patient's medical adviser. The allowance is granted on the basis of the authorization of the medical adviser according to category B. I also have a table that provides an overview of RIZIV expenditure, in particular the number of daily doses and the number of packs for painkillers for the period 2012-2016, the most recent year for which complete data are available in the Farmanet database. The data are also broken down by region and type of painkiller, as you requested. The rest houses ROBs and RVTs were switched to the unit pricing system in 2015. Therefore, for 2015 and 2016, the number of packages delivered in the open official and the number of units delivered in the rest houses, are listed separately. That is where we work on a unit basis anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u97	Madam Minister, I had also tabled this question as a written question in October 2016, but since I have not received an answer one year after the date, I am now putting it orally. Home care often involves a slightly older population, while younger children often rely on it. With regard to that group, I have a few questions. Exactly how many active home nurses focus on children? How many hours of home care are performed per year by these home nurses? Do you know how many hours of home care were provided to children? Do you know anything about the age groups where most home care is used for children, about the indication and the care for which children are most in need of home care? What is the youngest age for patients using home care? What are the other age groups to whom home nurses spend the most care? Which concerns are most frequently given? What budget goes to home care in general and specifically to home care for children? Do you know whether certain services specifically focus on home care for children and whether within certain home care services certain nurses were specifically qualified or in-school care for children's care?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u98	Miss Van Camp, I'll get you the numbers and the tables. The first table refers to the number of nurses carrying out an activity included in the sickness insurance scheme. This is about the number of nurses with a practice. There we see an increase of 5 000 people between 2010 and 2015, mainly in the Flemish Region. The number of hours worked is not known by the RIZIV. The age category for which nursing care is most often performed in children is the age category between 15 and 19 years. That doesn't mean it doesn't happen under that age, but that's the biggest group. The indications are also not known in RIZIV. With regard to the performances that are most performed in children at six years of age, I also have a table. This is mainly about the administration of medicines and the first basic provision of the day of care, complex and simple wound care. There too we see an increase. Nursing care can be performed from the age of 1 year. For the years 2010-2015 the highest number of nursing care is therefore carried out for the 80 to 84 age group. The five performances most frequently performed over a five-year period for all age groups are: initial basic day care, hygienic care and administration of medicinal products, via intramuscular, subcutaneous or hypodermal access. Another large group is the flat-rate fee, called flat-rate payment A, which is awarded once per day of care for the whole of the nurse's care. In 2015, expenditure amounted to 1.3 billion euros for nursing care, of which 1% was for children. I'll give you the tables.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u99	Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u100	Madam Secretary, women who develop gestational diabetes during pregnancy also have a higher chance of remaining diabetic afterwards. My question is whether there is a record of how many pregnant women develop gestational diabetes, how many are annual percentages, whether there is standard monitoring for gestational diabetes, what standard follow-up is provided for women with gestational diabetes and how long it lasts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u101	The presence or absence of diabetes during pregnancy, either pre-existing or gestational diabetes, is a parameter recorded in the birth certificate. This birth certificate is mandatory. Therefore, the number of mothers residing in Belgium in the period 2010-2014 indicating diabetes at childbirth increases slightly more, from more than five thousand in 2010 to over seven thousand in 2014. This figure corresponds to 4 % of births in 2010 and 5.8 % in 2014. Several factors are mentioned, which can explain this increase. On the one hand, there is the improved screening. On the other hand, there is an increase in risk factors in the population, the main of which is that there are more pregnancies at later age, i.e. older mothers, and an increase in the incidence of obesity. The most recent data have been published at Community and regional level by the Centre d'Epidémiologie Périnatal and the Study Centre for Perinatal Epidemiology. In 2015, 8,9% of mothers had diabetes in the Brussels-Capital Region, 7.5% in the Walloon Region and 3,7% in Flanders. The big difference for Flanders can be explained by the fact that the new screening recommendations have not yet been implemented in 2015. There is a directive on good medical practice. There was pregnancy counseling of Domus Medica validated by CEBAM in May 2015. A survey of risk factors for gestational diabetes is recommended at the start of pregnancy. In women with risk factors, blood sampling should be carried out, but a general screening of pregnant women is also recommended. At 24 weeks there is a new screening for gestational diabetes due to blood sampling, recommended in any woman, regardless of whether she had diabetes or not. According to the directive, women are immediately referred to the endocrinologist for follow-up during pregnancy diabetes. They may also be temporarily included in a diabetes agreement, followed up by a multidisciplinary team of a diabetes convention centre. For screening after pregnancy diabetes, the Sweet Pregnant project of the Diabetes Liga runs in collaboration with Domus Medica and the Flemish Association for Obstetrie and Gynaecology, funded by the Flemish government. Women with gestational diabetes are invited to register voluntarily shortly after the diagnosis of pregnancy diabetes. After childbirth, these women receive an annual letter and an e-mail, to visit the general practitioner again for a blood sample and therefore to check whether they are not in the process of installing normal diabetes. Mrs Van Camp, I will also deliver the annex to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u102	Mrs. Fonck is apologised for medical reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u103	Minister, as you know, the Bioethics Committee has presented its opinion on euthanasia in patients who are not terminally ill. The report notes that in 2015, 2,022 people were euthanized but 15% were not terminally ill. Generally, these patients are in great physical and psychological distress. Let us remember that a request for euthanasia in our country can only be made if the person is sound in mind, the request is made repeatedly and the medical situation is unanswered. For mental or psychiatric cases, the law seems evasive. The Bioethics Committee recalls that the fatigue of life, often linked to social and societal problems, cannot in any way constitute a reason for euthanasia. Three medical positions emerged at the end of this report. The first considers that it is inappropriate to amend the current law. The second would like to amend it to make it clear that it is not possible for shrink patients to benefit from euthanasia. The latter believes that an amendment to the law is necessary to take account of psychiatric disorders. Minister, have you read the report of the Bioethics Committee? What is your overall analysis of this report? Are you satisfied with the long-term work of this committee? The conclusions of this report point to the lack of a legal basis or rather the vagueness of euthanasia for people who are not in the terminal phase. What is your opinion on this specific point? Are you in favour of revising legislation on euthanasia? Do you think that new legal criteria or conditions should be included in order to obtain and extend it to psychiatric categories? What else do you think of the proposal to extend the legal period of one month between the request for euthanasia and the act itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u104	Mr President, Mrs Van Peel's question referred to an opinion document and to the reaction of the chairman and members of the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee. Mrs Galant, your questions are specifically asked following Opinion No 73 of the Advisory Committee of Bioethics of Belgium: "Euthanasia in cases of patients outside the terminal phase, of psychological suffering and psychiatric assignments". It is clear from all these documents that not only do there exist different views on the wish to provide for the possibility of applying euthanasia, within the framework of the law, on the basis of untenable psychological suffering, but also that the role of the Federal Commission for the Control and Evaluation of Euthanasia is questioned by some. The end of active life at the request of the patient is evidently one of the most important and delicate ethical issues. It is primarily up to Parliament to hold a debate on an evaluation and possible improvement of the law. There have also been a lot of votes recently to evaluate the euthanasia law. Some also proposed changes on a number of points. I am thinking of the practice of euthanasia in psychological suffering, the possible registration of palliative sedation at the terminal stage, the task and operation of the Federal Control and Evaluation Committee Euthanasia, the ability to carry out euthanasia in dementia, the extent to which institutions prevent the application of euthanasia within their walls and so on. I am in favour of a broad debate on the legal framework for euthanasia. There are already researches on which you can base your evaluation. Of course, you can listen to people in the field. It is first of all patients, but also doctors, nurses; the Flemish Psychiatric Association, which has drawn up a directive setting out criteria for the attention given to euthanasia for mental suffering; the Euthanasia Commission when presenting its next report, and others. At the possible request of this House, I am prepared to entrust my services with examining the extent to which they can gather additional elements to further develop an evaluation. Federal entities and universities must also be able to play a role. Mrs Fonck and Mrs Van Peel asked me for a review of the Euthanasia Audit and Evaluation Committee. I would point out that the government only supports that committee in terms of logistics and financial support, and that according to law it can only report to Parliament. The Chamber has decided on the double list of candidates from which the effective and alternate members of the Committee were appointed. I assume this list was pluralistic. So there's nothing I can do about it. It was the House that decided who should be represented on this committee. Funding is the responsibility of the government, but reporting and evaluation are the responsibility of Parliament. That is how we did it at the time, when the law was passed. This was not a simple decision to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u105	We received the evaluation committee a few months ago about their last report. I no longer know whether this is an annual or biennial report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u106	Every two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u107	It is true that legislative proposals exist. The difficulty is that they are sent to the Justice Committee and not to the Health Committee. Euthanasia is legal. It's always a little complicated. We do the assessment, we think about the people involved, in relation to the health care and the rights of patients. But if we want to change the law, this is actually settled in the Justice Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u108	This is an exception to criminal law. The Criminal Code makes that distinction. It is therefore more of an ethical issue than a legal one.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u109	This is one of the topics that parliamentarians or groups can add to their priorities for the organization of work in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u110	Madam President, Minister, more and more people are seeking refuge in plastic surgery, not only for the sake of an exalted ideal of beauty but also for medical reasons. The figures of the RIZIV show that people are spending more and more on reconstructive plastic surgery. In 2015, nearly sixty thousand interventions were repaid that were necessary for medical reasons. This accounted for over EUR 18 million or 70% more than in 2006. The figures show that the number of interventions for purely aesthetic reasons has also increased dramatically over the last ten years. The taboo around breast enlargements, facelifts and nasal and eyelid correction has completely disappeared. I would have liked to have received some figures for the university hospitals of Leuven, Ghent, Brussels and Antwerp for the period from 2010 to now. What was the nature of the interventions and what amounts were those at the RIZIV? This concerns both the reconstructive plastic procedures and the aesthetic plastic procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u111	Madam President, Mrs Van Hoof, the RIZIV only reimburses reconstructive plastic surgery. The purely aesthetic surgery will not be refunded. Consequently, the RIZIV also has no information on the latter category, since the doctors do not certify them or the certificates are refused by the sickness fund. They are therefore not included in the statistics either. I have a table showing the number of cases and the expenditure per provision of nomenclature 14, c from 2010 to 2015. A distinction is made between university hospitals and other hospitals. I also have more information on which benefits will be reimbursed. Sometimes these are accidents, but also birth defects and surgical interventions due to malignant diseases. So it's really reconstructive surgery. The number of indications is also increasing considerably as technical expertise is being built up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u112	These data will be added to the annexes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u113	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u114	Mrs Van Camp, would you accept Mr Senesael's question about hemochromatosis? In this way, we could then continue with you until the minister leaves.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u115	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u116	Minister, our country has many people with some form of haemochromatosis, whose treatment consists of regular bleeding. However, their blood could not so far be used as part of the donation of blood because their donation was not considered selfless since the bleeding was a treatment for these patients. In order to allow the use of the blood of these patients in the context of a blood donation and following lengthy discussions, a bill to amend the law of 5 July 1994 on blood and blood derivatives of human origin with regard to the altruistic character of blood donation by people with hemochromatosis was adopted unanimously by the parliamentarians present at the session on 21 January 2016. Minister, it is up to you to make the necessary enforcement orders. Can you tell us where you are in their development? How do you explain that they were still not taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u117	Mr Senesael, in my memory the vote was quite easy. While there was a broad consensus in Parliament, the drafting of the decrees proved to be more difficult. That's why we're late. But it's in progress. Patients will be able to give their blood from the date of entry into force, ten days after the publication of the orders in the Belgian Monitor. This is planned for the end of the month or, at the latest, during the month of March. An information campaign is planned to inform about the conditions to be guaranteed in order to be able to give blood. There was also a need to change the lists for statements. Because, remember, it was already discriminatory. It took several months. Finally, we have succeeded. Sometimes it takes a long time to vote for something that then happens quickly, but in this case, there was still a lot to discuss. Because, of course, the risk of contamination requires vigilance with regard to liability.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u118	Madam Minister, first of all, I thank you for the successful outcome of this matter. I have noted that no later than the beginning of March, the order will be published in the Monitor. Secondly, even if I had not mentioned this in my question, you have indicated that after the vote on the text, a communication will have to be organised in order to convey the information in the most relevant way possible. You're telling me you're going to take care of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u119	Questions No 22096 by Mrs Barbara Pas, No 22172 by Mrs Karin Jiroflée and the attached questions No 22173 by Mrs Karin Jiroflée and No 22465 by Mrs Anne Dedry and the attached questions No 22184 by Mrs Karin Jiroflée and No 22413 by Mrs Anne Dedry are postponed. We could stop work at 5:00 p.m., after the attached questions on Lyme disease.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u120	Madam President, there are several questions from Mrs Van Camp, but they relate to the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u121	Yeah, they're for one. This happens sometimes!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u122	Something went wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u123	It happens from time to time!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u124	The texts are identical, to the points and commas. Actually, it's one question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u125	Not with me. These are two different questions, but with the same title.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u126	Then something went wrong sending it to my services. After all, we have received the same question twice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u127	No, I didn't. It's two other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u128	We also have the same question twice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u129	That's weird. One question dates from 14 November and the other from 20 November. One question is about the transparency of pay supplements and the other about opening up the dates of the Inter-Mutualist Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u130	I suggest you ask your questions together. Then the minister will answer you. If you have not obtained all the information, we will be able to return to it at the next meeting. Moreover, we have the same questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u131	Madam President, something must have gone wrong. The first question concerns the transparency of pay supplements. As a group, we have repeatedly called for transparency in this area. Today we sometimes read statements about this in the press of the sickness funds, which do have the necessary information. There are then data showing that the Walloon and Brussels hospitals would charge twice as many honorary wage supplements as the Flemish. I've never seen government figures on this. My question is therefore what your position is on this matter. Do you also think that transparency in respect of pay supplements can be improved? Do you intend to have this kept centrally by the government? When and what is planned in this area? The second question is about the lack of transparency, and I refer to one of the shortcomings in the field of pay supplements. In reply to my question No. 1499 you replied that you are working on opening up the data of the sickness funds, which include, inter alia, information on those supplements. This would automatically make this information accessible to the public authorities, so that you have it as a policy-responsible minister. My question was what progress has been made with the implementation of this law? When can we expect that this information from, among other things, the Inter-Mutualist Agency will be available to the public authorities and this Parliament? Is it all the data available to the sickness funds? Are these data automatically transferred or is a system set up to centralise the data directly from the files and documents to the government? How am I supposed to imagine this? What dates will become available when exactly so that we can follow this up from Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u132	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, as indicated in the answer to your written question No. 1499, concerning data other than those appearing on the hospital invoice, the insurance institutions do not currently systematically have the information on supplements invoiced by the health care providers. As we pointed out, the negotiations are ongoing, but no timetable has yet been set for the systematic communication of these supplements. As regards the communication of data available to insurance institutions, the Law of 11 August 2017 introduced an Article 9quater into the Law on compulsory medical care insurance and benefits, coordinated on 14 July 1994, which provides for access to that data for the RIZIV. That is the legal basis that we adopted at the time. Under the 2014 government agreement and under the governance agreement of the RIZIV 2016-2018, provision is made for the installation of a platform containing all data from the insurance institutions relating to medical care insurance. A mandate was given to the InterMutualist Agency, as a subcontractor of the insurance institutions, to establish that database and to make it available to the RIZIV on a permanent basis and via a secure link. That is the way we will work. The RIZIV will of course be able to retrieve and link data in it, but it will always be possible to trace why the RIZIV needs that data and what is being investigated. This access to the data provides for an increase in opportunities for action for the RIZIV and is also part of the Action Plan on Enforcement in Health. The mechanisms set up were described in detail in the explanatory memorandum preceding the draft law on various health provisions, which introduced an Article 9c into the Law of 14 July 1994. You can also go back to the discussions of the Law of 11 August 2017. The explanatory statement contains more detail on what can happen and how it can happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u133	The practical implementation, and therefore the establishment of the platform, is still ongoing? So at the moment the data are not yet available, but is working on it, with that platform?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u134	The IMA must create that platform. Via the legal basis, the RIZIV can collect and cross data from that platform.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u135	That will include data on the pay supplements, among other things?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u136	What's the problem there? A supplement is called under the table. That is not visible, but it is still being done. We ask patients to report that to their health insurance fund in order to map it out, but if it stays under the table... One could ask the same question with black money. How much black money is there? If anyone could tell me that. We don't know that either.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u137	Madam Minister, on 26 May 2016, the resolution on a multidisciplinary approach to Lyme disease was unanimously adopted in plenary. This resolution calls on the government to increase awareness of Lyme disease and its treatment, to improve the registration of infection with Borrelia bacteria, to update the diagnostic and treatment directive, to work together with the Communities and the Regions to prevent Lyme disease and to focus on further research and knowledge transfer on the disease. Madam Secretary, we are now more than a year later. I and many other colleagues were contacted by the vzw Lyme International to draw attention to more research, reliable tests and effective treatments for Lyme disease, elements all contained in the resolution of 26 May 2016. That is why I would like to ask you the following questions. In what way did you follow up this resolution? Were the diagnostic and treatment guidelines updated on the basis of new scientific evidence? What international initiatives were taken by Belgium? How feasible do you consider the slope to optimise efforts at Benelux level on prevention and scientific research into Lyme disease?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u138	Madam President, Minister, this Parliament adopted on May 26, 2016 a resolution on a multidisciplinary approach to Lyme disease. According to the Lyme-Int association, which works for people with this disease to improve prevention, research, care and reimbursement of treatment for this complex disease, nothing has changed for the sick since the adoption of this resolution. Currently, it appears that the ELISA test is unreliable, which means that thousands of people are not diagnosed in time and are thus deprived of the basic treatment required. There would therefore be an urgent need to find a more reliable test and more effective treatments. Minister, can you tell us what part of the follow-up has been given to the various requests contained in the resolution I mentioned? What actions do you intend to take so that there is more research on this disease, a reliable laboratory test, effective treatment and, ultimately, better prevention and care for the sick? Thank you in advance for your answers and, in order to avoid an hour of waiting for the next train, I will read them in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u139	Madam Chair, I have time to ask my question before I take my train and listen to the answer. Minister, I am particularly sensitive to the problem of Lyme disease because, according to TiquesNet's 2016 report, it is in my province that the number of bites is highest, which is normal since that is where the forests are located. As part of the resolution on this disease, I would like to join my colleagues in asking you what measures have been, or are going to be, implemented in the resolution. If so, what obstacles do they delay implementation? Could you also provide us with your reply to the Lyme-Int association, only part of the reply on its website?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u140	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, discussions have taken place on how to deal with Lyme disease. We found differences in the approach to disease in the scientific world and the lack of reliable diagnostic tests. A resolution was adopted by the House of Representatives in May 2016. Minister, could you provide an update on the implementation of this resolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u141	Minister, I would like to ask the same question about the implementation of the resolution adopted in May 2016. I still remember the hearing of the various speakers on this occasion. The scientific references were those of the institutional structure of the United States responsible for infectious diseases, the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA). At present, the International Lyme and Associated Diseases Society (ILADS) seems to take precedence in the scientific analysis of appropriate treatments for Lyme disease, and in particular in the evaluation of tests, including the ELISA test, considered unsatisfactory in terms of detection. It sometimes even gives positive results to individuals without symptoms, who have good immunity. The current recommendations call for clinical analysis and the use of the Western blot test. For chronic Lyme disease, present in a limited number of people, it is necessary to continue treatment with dioxiciline more than the usual three weeks, up to two months, and to treat erythema for six weeks. This other approach is related to the chronicity of the disease. Prevention is part of the competencies of the federated entities, but there is the National Environmental Health Action Plan (NEHAP), a National Environment/Health Plan, through which you and the federated entities could take initiatives to achieve the total elimination of ticks and promote the use of repellents in risk areas. Minister, how does this issue evolve in this NEHAP cell? Finally, scientific advice is increasing. Groups of doctors are formed in Benelux, as well as patient associations, to work with experts. Like our resolution, they want the development of research and the gathering of experts in this field, with diverse views, analysis and guidance. In this way, they could develop consensus or plural recommendations, but would at least express an agreement on the different themes of treatment and detection. Madam Minister, where are you? What is your position about the potential chronicity of Lyme disease, produced by tick bite infection?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u142	Madam President, I note that a simple e-mail from an organisation caused six parliamentary questions to be tabled. We can really talk about efficiency! The "Health Data" recording strategy is currently not used for the monitoring of Lyme bcorliosis, as the system is still in development and is not yet accessible to all physicians. The aim is not to make monitoring comprehensive – which would mean notification of all cases. It is pursued by the doctors of the Vigier laboratory network, the National Reference Centre – which is a consortium of UCL and UZ Leuven – and the Minimum Hospital Summary. It shall be examined whether further monitoring of neuroborreliosis is possible as part of a possible request for data from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. Each year, PSI launches a press release about TiquesNet to encourage public participation in tick bite monitoring. The various media are taking it back. Information is also transmitted to youth movements as well as to people who often come into contact with nature, such as Agentschap voor Natuur en Bos. The new communication media developed in the context of prevention also refer to TiquesNet. Recommendations for the diagnosis and treatment of Lyme bcorliosis were reviewed at the end of 2016 based on the most recent literature. They are available on the BAPCOC website. A summary was provided to general practitioners in the Huisarts Nu professional journal of June 2017. Recently, recommendations for prescribing and interpreting serological tests for Lyme bcorliosis have been re-evaluated by a group of European experts in the European Society of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Deseases Study Group for Lyme Borreliosis. Their recommendations are identical to those of BAPCOC experts. Signs of migrant erythema should be clinically diagnosed and not require laboratory testing. Diagnosis of Lyme bcorliosis requires examination of cerebrospinal fluid to demonstrate intrathecal antibody production. Diagnosis of other symptoms is based on the clinical appearance and demonstrated presence of antibodies against the bacterium Borrelia Burgdorferi. In addition, due to its low positive predictive value, screening is not recommended in people with non-specific subjective symptoms. It is also not recommended to use other tests, such as Elispot-LTT, offered by commercial laboratories, such as in Germany. It was concluded in a recent study in the Netherlands, which examined the need for the Elispot test in the diagnosis of neuroborreliosis, that this test does not distinguish an old infection from a recent one and that it is far less able to demonstrate active Lyme disease affecting the nervous system than antibody testing. A similar study is currently under way for other manifestations of Lyme bcorliosis in the Netherlands. According to INAMI data, the number of serological tests, ELISA and Western blot tests performed in Belgium, has increased sharply in recent years, particularly since 2014, involving of course also an increase in costs. INAMI has been responsible for antibody testing and confirmation testing since 1999 and 2008, respectively. However, according to the results of the National Reference Centre, much of the requests for such tests do not meet the recommendations of the BAPCOC. In 40% of cases where clinical information is available, these include erythema migrating or unspecified symptoms, such as fatigue, generalized pain and others. It is therefore necessary to disseminate the recommendations more widely and to inform patients, who often insist on testing themselves. BAPCOC's treatment recommendations follow those of other European countries. In terms of duration of treatment, several double-blind studies have shown that long-term antibiotic therapy is harmful and does not provide a proportionate benefit in terms of quality of life (New England Journal, 2016). However, normal antibiotic treatment of the disease is reimbursed in category C of drugs. Contrary to what has been suggested by certain doctors and patients' associations, the majority of doctors and scientists agree that the term "chronic disease of Lyme" is no longer used. This is also reflected in the BABCOC Directive, which was signed by several professional associations involved in the Lymeborreliosis, such as the Belgian Association for Infectiology and Clinical Microbiology, Domus Medica, the Belgian Royal Society for Rheumatology, the Flemish Society for Neurology and the Belgian Society of Internal Medicine. Disease prevention is a competence of the federated entities. In 2017, both the Health and Health Agency and l'Agence pour une Vie de Qualité provided new information on the subject Lymeborreliosis and tick bites, including in the form of a web page in Flanders, sign bites.be, and flyers and a poster in Wallonia. At the start of the next drawing season, in the spring of this year, the Health and Health Agency is also planning a major information campaign through various channels. As far as research is concerned, 1 500 ticks were collected after a bite on a human being. This sign is investigated in the RIVM for the presence of various germs, such as Borrelia burgdorferi, Anaplasma phagocythophilum, Borrelia miyamotoi, Rickettsia, Candidatus mikurensis and Babesia. I've had a lot of microbiology, but I don't know all of them either. The results will be made available on the TekenNet website by the end of the summer at the latest. In 2018, the Scientific Institute for Public Health is planning a retrospective study on the occurrence of neuroborreliosis in Flanders for the period 2015-2017. This is also financed by the Health and Health Agency. The study will also assess how the diagnosis was made, which treatment was initiated, and will examine the possibility of prospective surveillance of neuroborreliosis. Proposals for research on the control of ticks in the environment, with a focus on the garden "SignNet" show that 44% of tick bites in the garden are incurred by the working group of the National Environmental Health Action Plan and the plan for the prevention and control of diseases transmitted by ticks in Belgium. There is also a great deal of international cooperation. Through the ECDC and through direct bilateral contacts, our scientists from the WIV-ISP and the National Reference Centre work closely with other European countries. This cooperation takes the form of studies, such as the study on the sign. There are also expert meetings and an exchange of information on ongoing studies and epidemiological information. Mr Piedboeuf, with regard to your specific question on the Lyme-Int BSA, I can confirm that, like the other Ministers of Health, I have received the letter from his representative. The main concern was the explanation for the diagnostic and treatment guidelines. The response was sent on December 5, 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u143	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. I will read the answer again to be aware of all the details, but I believe that I have received an answer to all my questions. A lot of studies are still going on. The insights as to whether or not this is a chronic condition are still evolving. Apparently, on the basis of the guidelines of the various organisations, the current position is that it is not a chronic disease, but there is still a lot of scientific evidence to be gained in this respect. It is good that we keep an eye on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u144	Thank you, Minister, for this very detailed answer. That is why you are replying in detail to all the Members who have asked these questions!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u145	It is a great job of all our bodies. The WIV / ISP works together in this area in collaboration with Europe and others. It's not just at home that there are questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u146	It was worth taking stock of this resolution almost a year and a half later. I noted that there was a development in epidemiology, strategy. That there is a whole series of questions for which we had answers and others on which the research continues. This indeed deserves to continue this effort. You have some words that can be reassuring in part and others that will ask that we come back from time to time on this issue that continues to cause concern to some of the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u147	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer, which I will also read again. There are two things that still disturb me after your answer. The first is that when we heard the doctors and experts at the time of the resolution, they recognized that some of the people were developing a long-term disease with a variety of symptoms that were diffused and changing over time. For these patients, they finally didn't know what to do. The only thing is, they didn't want them to take antibiotics. At the time, we were talking about antibiotics for a year, while here we are going back to two months in the suggested practices. So I really feel, by meeting people with this disease on a regular basis, that they are not sufficiently taken into account. For some, the treatment boils down to the hot shower. There is a whole series of elements that I really want to be able to work with these patients and with professionals, researchers and experts who have different a priori and different methods. It was felt at the time of the hearings that there was really an opposition, almost hatred, between the representatives of the various currents as to the approach of this disease, in its diagnosis and in its practice. I would like to stress the need to put in place something that would make it possible to get out of this problem from the top and to accompany this minority of people who develop long-lasting, painful and disabling symptoms. If we don't, some of these people will leave their jobs because they can't do their jobs anymore. It's a real question of public health and efficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic816x.u148	Question No 22243 by Mr Hedebouw is transformed into a written question. The remaining questions are deferred.
