ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u1	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Roel Deseyn's 27057 and 27068 are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u2	Minister, you have requested a report from the experts of the Conseil supérieur des Finances (CSF) on the reform of personal tax (IPP). The announcement of this request could be perplexed since, in the wake of the tax shift, it could be inferred that this tax shift reform was not entirely satisfactory to you or, in any case, not entirely complete since you wanted to go further. What is the status of this report? Is the work blocked, as one might think, by reference to the decision of the President of the Tax and para-fiscal section of the Supreme Council of Finance, who seems to have thrown away the sponge? Apparently, it would have been difficult to reconcile each other's views and promote a common working methodology. Minister, how long have you had the resignation of the section president and what are the reasons for this departure? Who will you designate to replace him and within what time frame? What's the status of the work? Can it be concluded that they are at a standstill and that the timing announced in a report by the end of this year will not be respected? In general, what are your objectives or expectations with this report?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u3	Mr Dispa, Mr Herwig Joosten gave me his resignation on 21 August. The resignation has strictly personal reasons. We will take the time to find a suitable successor. As long as no successor has been appointed, the presidency will be held by the senior member. The proper functioning of the CSF is not at all compromised. It is for this purpose that a regulation has been drawn up. The objective of the report remains the same. Six points have to be noted. First of all, it is a question of answering two questions. How can the taxation of natural persons in all its aspects be reformed in such a way as to pay better for work and reduce the various pitfalls to inactivity? How can such a reform be financed by a partial or total shift towards other taxes? Secondly, the study must pay attention to the budgetary consequences of a reform of the tax on natural persons and to various possible compensatory measures at different levels of power. It must also be attentive to current economic and social trends and shifts. In addition, it must ensure that any inequalities between the different forms of common life are reduced. Finally, it must aim to simplify taxation in depth. The first part of the report addresses the possibilities of reducing tax and parafiscal charges and focuses on eliminating the disadvantages of the current system. A second part will deal, among other things, with funding channels so that some of the tax cuts can be offset. I called on the Council to pay attention to the various trends and developments in our society - improving tax neutrality, green taxation, taxation as a solution to the challenges of mobility, supporting the new economy, continuing the fight against poverty - in both rights and duties. The report will be submitted in February 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answer. When we look at the objectives you have set for this report, we realize that they are particularly ambitious. We also learn that the deadline is a little changed. The report is now announced for February and more for the end of this year. Therefore, this document may be used to fuel the electoral campaign. In any event, it will no longer be able to feed the work that you will be able to carry out until the end of your mandate. In any event, I hope that this document will be authoritative. It seems to me that if a full-time chairman were appointed, it might be a better augury. To live up to these ambitions, we must give ourselves the means, including in the steering of the group with a presidency that fully assumes this responsibility. Two months after the president's resignation, perhaps it would be good, for the last straight line, to find him a successor other than the member who has the privilege of being the oldest in the group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u5	Question No 27137 by Mrs Catherine Fonck is transformed into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 27221 and Question No 2722 27222 by Mr Roel Deseyn are converted into written questions. Mrs Barbara Pas asks for her question. 27240 to be postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u6	Mr Van Biesen, I assume that your two questions are on the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u7	Mr President, there are indeed several questions with variations on the same subject. As long as this penalisation is in the legislation, on which I also set up a tree yesterday, I remain a major opponent of it. I am already very pleased that the government has come to its sense of reducing the 10% to 5%, but I insist that we should look quietly for several tens of millions in order to undo that legislation. However, as long as the legislation exists, we are obliged to remove all the uncertainties. In this context, I have submitted these questions. Minister, if the minimum remuneration of the manager is less than EUR 45 000, as provided for in the law, it must be at least half the result before remuneration. To this end, I refer to your answers to various questions raised earlier. Now, however, the question arises as to whether this represents 50% of the result for all directors' remuneration granted to natural persons, or whether it amounts to 50% of the result for the highest management remuneration awarded to a natural person. Assuming that the result of the taxable period before deduction of any management remuneration is EUR 60 000 and that a first manager-natural person is paid EUR 20 000 and a second EUR 10 000, the final result is EUR 30 000. Is the minimum required management remuneration to avoid the individual attack and therefore the penalisation more than EUR 60 000 times 50%, i.e. EUR 30 000, or EUR 50 000 times 50%, representing EUR 25 000? This latter opinion could be derived from the argument developed by the Council of Ministers in the judgment in No. 44/94 de dato 1 June 1994 of the then Arbitration Court under border number A.2.8 and from the circular No. Ci.RH. 421/456.043 of 31 August 1994. Although the legislation at the time is not entirely identical to the existing legislation, the interpretation and justification also seems to be applicable to the current legislation. Mr Minister, can you tell us the correct interpretation of this legislation in relation to that situation? My second question concerns the same subject. If the minimum remuneration of the manager is less than EUR 45 000, it must be at least equal to half of the result. However, the question is how to calculate the pre-wage result if part of the management remuneration consists of benefits of all kinds for which a flat-rate valuation exists. Such benefits of all kinds are eligible to determine the amount of remuneration granted to management. Can this be resolved by increasing the tax result after the manager's remuneration, and thus including the tax deductible expenditure on the provision of benefits of all kinds, by the manager's remuneration which includes the flat-rate benefits of all kinds? Let me give you an example. Suppose there is a taxable result after a salary of EUR 20 000 and only one manager was granted an advantage of EUR 10 000, is the separate charge payable on the minimum remuneration required of EUR 15 000, 50% of EUR 30 000, less the actual remuneration awarded of EUR 10 000? In other words, will the individual tax be charged at EUR 5 000?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u8	In the case referred to by you, which relates to benefits of all kinds valued at a flat rate, the taxable income of the company, before deduction of the manager's remuneration, is EUR 20 000, whereas the remuneration consisting of flat-rate benefits of all kinds is only EUR 10 000. The remuneration is therefore not equal to the taxable income of the company. In this case, the special assessment will indeed be calculated at EUR 5 000, i.e. EUR 30 000 at 50%, or EUR 15 000 minus the taxable benefits of EUR 10 000. That is indeed EUR 5 000. For the purposes of calculating the separate assessment in Article 219, the example quoted above shall include the highest remuneration and taxable income before deduction of that remuneration. In your example, therefore, the minimum manager's remuneration is EUR 25 000, i.e. 50% of EUR 50 000.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u9	I would like to thank the Minister and once again I would like to urge him to consider whether the possible Penalisation as such can be removed from the legislation. For this we will be able to find an alternative solution together.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u10	Mr President, Minister, a few months ago, Prof. Dr. Kenneth Vyncke presented a study at the Conference on the Platform Economy organized by the Faculty of Law of the University of Leuven. He explains that the Uber platform is well liable for VAT on the total amount of the races paid to it. Indeed, it seems that Uber has been considered a transport company and not a simple digital platform, since the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 20 December 2017. At the same time, the English court is currently analysing the VAT amounts declared by the platform: it would seem that in Great Britain Uber would only declare VAT on the amount of the commissions (20% or 25%) that the platform is charging its drivers. Mr. Minister, do you know if this is the case in Belgium? In Belgium, it would also appear that Uber considers that it is for drivers to declare VAT on the amount of the races, which is contrary to the European Directive. Minister, are you informed of this? What is your position and that of your administration?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u11	Mr Laaouej, the analysis of transactions carried out by or through digital platforms such as Uber is a major challenge in terms of VAT, it is clear, given the innovative nature of this phenomenon linked to the important development of the new digital economy and the collaborative economy. Mr Vyncke's particularly nuanced study of Uber's position on VAT in the United Kingdom is the perfect demonstration of this. The VAT regime applicable to these operations was the subject of an in-depth discussion between the Member States and the European Commission in the 110th VAT Committee of 13 April 2018. This shows that the approaches advocated in the Member States are still particularly divergent. Further analysis is therefore necessary in order to arrive at a common approach within the European Union. Such an approach seems all the more appropriate since it has been found that the situation in several Member States is characterised by its cross-border aspect. In any event, it should be noted that the judgment of 20 December 2017 to which you refer was delivered in the field of social security. On this point, it is also apparent from the discussions at the level of the VAT Committee that this judgment is not necessarily transposable as such in respect of VAT, even though it is clearly an important element in this debate. In view of the above, my services are now examining the issue carefully, taking into account all the relevant elements, including the way in which contractual relations between the persons concerned are articulated, which apparently may vary from one Member State to another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u12	If I understand correctly, Mr Minister, the subject is therefore still under discussion at your administrative level, on the basis of the fact that there is not yet a common approach at European level. I would say that two times ago: on the one hand, there is the need for a common approach at European level, which is always better, and, on the other hand, the need for your administration to take a position, as is the case with a whole series of other phenomena. Either you apply VAT on the commission or you apply it on the whole. In this case, Uber should therefore be considered liable for VAT. I would still like to know what position you are going to take at European level, considering that this will be the position you have taken at national level. What is the timetable and when will we be set? It must be understood that Uber is an important economic player but not alone in the market. There may be some form of unfair competition with a whole range of other operators that do not go through Uber-type digital platforms, for example when they are independent or they go through a platform that is not digital but rather a call centre for example. It may also be a fleet owned by an entrepreneur who owns a number of vehicles and is subject to liability. From the point of view of distortion of competition, an angle which I think should attract your attention, there is a problem. I think your administration needs to be able to decide quickly. This is not the first time that the tax administration, in this case the VAT administration, has been confronted with a new phenomenon on which it has to decide. There are indeed cross-border aspects, but there are mostly purely national aspects. Some Uber drivers or Uber digital platform drivers do not carry out cross-border operations and are limited to strictly intra-national operations. I'll come back to you to see if, in a few weeks, your tax administration has ruled. I think it would be good if she could move forward in her reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u13	Mr President, there appears to be a difference in the possible interpretation between the Dutch and French texts of Article 203 (2) of the WIB. The English text reads: "1° the grounds for taxable income in an income tax shall be present only after 1 January if the person acquires, at a later date than 1 January, the status of taxable income in that income tax; 2° the grounds for taxable income in an income tax shall cease to exist before 31 December if the person no longer possesses the status of a taxable person in that income tax at a time earlier than 31 December." The French text reads: "For the purposes of paragraph 1, the conditions for taxing income shall not be met until after 1 January if the person acquires the status of taxpayer of that income tax at a date subsequent to 1 January; the conditions for taxing income shall cease to be met before 31 December if the person no longer holds the status of taxpayer of that income tax at a date prior to 31 December". Can the Minister confirm which of the two texts is the correct one? Is there a need for an adjustment?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u14	Mr Van Biesen, there is no difference between the Dutch and French texts of this article. I can also refer to the Royal Decree of 22 December 2010. Apart from correcting a mere linguistic error in the French text, no changes have been made. What language error has been corrected? The words "que si la personne" were replaced by the words "si la personne." That's purely linguistic. There have therefore been no further changes and, as far as we are concerned, there is therefore no need for correction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u15	Then we accept that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u16	Mr President, Minister, according to Article 193a (1) of the Income Tax Code, the employment and occupational transfer premiums granted by the competent regional institutions to companies which comply with the provisions of Regulation No. 2204/2002 of 12 December 2002 by the European Commission on the application of Articles 87 and 88 of the EC Treaty to State aid for employment, or which are accepted or accepted by the European Commission in that context, exempt from corporation tax. Can you tell me whether a grant granted by the Flemish Region from the now abolished Experience Fund is covered by this exemption?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u17	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, it is true that only the employment and transfer premiums granted by the competent regional institutions to companies which meet the conditions of employment laid down in the European regulation are exempt from corporation tax. I assume that the decrees and decrees in implementation of that regulation have been issued with sufficient understanding of European regulations in this area. The regional institutions are therefore fully entitled to confirm that the abovementioned conditions have been met with regard to the premiums they grant under that framework. I have already replied in the same way in the past and I would like to refer to the answers to written question No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 10773 by Mr Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u18	Mr President, Minister, that means that the decreer, the Region, must include this in his decrees. If this did not happen with regard to the Experience Fund, does this mean that these subsidies are not tax-free?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u19	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u20	Minister, Article 48 of the Law of 25 December 2017 on corporate tax reform amended Article 205 of the WIB. This Article shall regulate the new system of the group contribution and shall enter into force in the 2020 tax year for financial years beginning at the earliest on 1 January 2019. One of the conditions for the group contribution to apply is that the two taxpayers, who grant and receive the group contribution respectively, are directly or indirectly linked to at least 90% of the capital. A sufficiently indirect connection exists if another domestic or European Economic Area company holds a holding of at least 90% in the two taxable persons. An additional condition is that the connection must exist continuously during the taxable period and the four preceding taxable periods. Mr Minister, should the participation of at least 90% held by the other domestic or EEA-based company in the two taxable persons be held directly or could this holding also be present by an indirect holding of at least 90%? Is there a continuous connection during the taxable period and the four preceding taxable periods if the parent company changes its identity during this period due to merger, division, transfer or transfer, which enjoys a system of legal continuity and fiscal neutrality? Is there a continuous connection during the taxable period and the four preceding taxable periods if the parent company changes during this period of identity because of a sale of the holding which enjoys a system of legal continuity because the holding is part of an industry or generality of goods? Is there a continuous connection during the taxable period and the four preceding taxable periods if the parent company changes during this period of identity because of a sale of the holding without legal continuity? Can you state the correct interpretation of the legislation on these situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u21	Mr Van Biesen, the companies that conclude a group contribution agreement may each have been part of a restructuring or set up as a result of restructuring during the five-year reference period for the commitment. In reply to your second question, I can inform you that the law of 30 July 2018 expressly provides for the effects of those transactions to be neutralized. In other words, not in all cases will there be a continuous five-year connection in the case of a merger, division, contribution or equivalent operation. The legal provisions in question shall apply irrespective of whether or not the merger, division, transfer or similar operation is fiscally neutral. The other questions you have asked will be answered in a circular that my administration will now complete and publish shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u22	Then I'll wait for that circular.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u23	This is another question on this subject, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u24	It's an evergreen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u25	I have once been taught that by always knocking on the same nail, things will eventually be abolished in order to avoid all these questions. Minister, Article 59 of the Law of 25 December 2017 on corporate tax reform introduced Article 219quinquies of the WIB. That Article shall enter into a separate assessment if a company does not pay a minimum remuneration to the manager-natural person. Article 219quinquies proposes an alternative calculation for affiliated companies, with a minimum total remuneration of at least EUR 75 000 for one manager. An additional condition for this alternative calculation is that it applies only to companies in which at least half of the managers are the same persons in each of the companies. Does "half of the managers" refer to managers who are natural persons? If, in other words, two related companies are in the following situation, can they rely on the alternative calculation provided for in Article 219quinquies? This is a company 1 with directors Mrs A, Mr B and a NV C and a company 2 with directors Mrs A, another gentleman, namely D, and another company, namely E. Companies 1 and 2 have at least half the same managers-natural persons but not half the same directors, including directors-corporations. Can you explain that, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u26	Thank you for that, once again, intrusive question about a problem that you know in the meantime. Thanks to your questions, I am also familiar with them. This is a problem, and it is all madness on a stick that we ourselves were hit by. I repeat a bit of my previous answer. There is a circular in preparation to explain that kind of situation clearly and clearly. It will also be published relatively soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u27	Thank you for your reply, Minister, which shows that perhaps it would be better, instead of writing a circular, to write an amendment to the legislation or simply to delete that article in the programme law. Then we are done with all these questions and circulars. Life can be simple sometimes, if one wishes. During a dinner we traditionally have in the cabinet of the Minister of Finance, we will discuss how we can compensate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u28	Questions Nos 27215 and 27293 by Mrs Anne-Catherine Goffinet are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u29	Minister, the CumEx scandal, a dividend fraud, cost billions of euros to the public finances of several countries, Belgium being one of the affected states. It is associated with another scandal, less clearly illegal but even more damaging to public finances: dividend arbitrage, also called CumCum. Indeed, there has been a total loss of 55 billion euros for eleven countries since 2001, 46 billion of which would be attributable to the CumCum and the balance to the CumEx. The newspaper Le Monde of 19 October 2018, which devotes a large file to these cases, states that, I quote, its "investigation shows that fraud related to CumEx is only the face of a much bigger problem that costs Europe billions of euros every year: dividend arbitrage. It is a technique of tax optimisation, at the limit of legality and unknown to the general public, to which many international banks are engaged. It consists of setting up complicated schemes to avoid tax on the dividend." The French daily also points the finger at "complicit banks", explaining that "For this tax break to work, it took a wide cooperation between traders, brokers, funds, lawyers and banks. The survey reveals that at least fifty of the world's largest financial institutions have participated, to varying degrees. Among them are the French banks BNP Paribas, Société Générale and Crédit Agricole." You will note, Minister, that the first banking institution in Belgium is a subsidiary of BNP Paribas. Moreover, the newspaper De Tijd of 20 October 2018 cites the names of two Belgian establishments to which a Brussels investigating judge allegedly conducted investigations, Euroclear and the Bank of New York Mellon. This article also indicates that the loss of CumEx for Belgium could exceed the generally advanced €201.5 million. What is the amount of damage to the Belgian public finances of CumEx and CumCum since 2001? How many Belgian banking institutions are involved in these two cases, separating CumEx and CumCum? What are these banking institutions and, for each, the amounts of CumEx and CumCum for which they have intervened? What legislative and/or other measures, if any, do you envisage to combat CumEx? Do you think that CumCum is a legal practice? And if so, in view of the damage it causes, is there no need to legislate in order to make such a practice illegal and to be able to combat it vigorously? Are you considering specific measures with regard to banking institutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u30	Mr President, this new tax fraud scandal was revealed last week by 19 European media who described this technique called CumEx, which would have caused the European states to lose the extravagant amount of 55 billion euros, hence the nickname of "the century's taxcassage". This tax package consists of playing with taxes on dividends. Legally, where an investor receives a share dividend, it is taxed in Belgium at the rate of 30%. The CumEx technique is to quickly transfer these shares between different owners so that the tax authorities don't really know who owns the share. Thus, the latter are able not to pay this tax, or even worse, to obtain its refund when it has not been paid. In Belgium, 201 million euros were allegedly stolen from the State between 2007 and 2012, when the money of the European states was used to bail out the banks, including in Belgium. The banks would be involved in this scandal. Deutsche Bank, Barclays, Merrill Lynch, JP Morgan, La Société générale but also BNP Paribas would be involved in this mechanism. As a reminder, the Belgian State is the first shareholder of BNP Paribas and has appointed two directors there, which, beyond the unbearable nature of tax fraud, shows that we are somehow complicit in it by virtue of our capital injections and the appointment of two directors. Minister, can you tell me whether you or the Belgian tax services are aware of this fraud mechanism called CumEx? Do you confirm the amount of EUR 201 million that would have been unpaid and thus stolen from Belgian public finances? What have the Belgian tax services undertaken to seek and recover the amount of this fraud? Has coordination been put in place at European level between tax services to recover the billions of euros fraudulently? Do you confirm that BNP Paribas is a party to these mechanisms? As the first shareholder of BNP Paribas, did the Belgian State react to these revelations, directly, through you or indirectly, through its two directors, against the management of the bank? In what terms? In general, how have you acted or intend to act to put an end to BNP Paribas' illegal or unethical practices that are too frequent?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, Belgium has in fact been the victim of a fraud in the reimbursement of savings of 201 million euros between 2012 and 2015. Fortunately, more than 782 million euros could be blocked and rejected, as soon as fraud was discovered. To date, no injury to Belgium has been identified by similar practices in CumEx and CumCum. On the other hand, dividend arbitration may be the result of frauds and misdemeanours that must be combated. In view of the professional secrecy referred to in Article 337 of IARC 92, no information may be transmitted on individual files in this case. On 28 September 2018, the Council of Ministers adopted, at first reading, a bill containing various measures to combat both tax fraud through CumEx operations and tax evasion through CumCum operations. Thus, in order to allow the imputation of the movable prepayment, a taxpayer will now have to prove full ownership of the securities on the day before the dividend is paid, that is, the day on which the beneficiaries are identified. The possibility of imputation is thus unequivocally granted to the party who is considered to be the beneficiary of the dividend and the possibility of imputation will be explicitly excluded for the person who bought Cum-dividend shares, but was in possession of them only on the day the dividend was paid, following late processing of the security transaction. In addition, it is now also possible to recover an undue refund from the beneficiary of the income from the pay-as-you-go allowance. So far, this was only possible in the case of an unfairly obtained discount exemption. There is no one-size-fits-all answer to Mr. Van Hees, who asks me if I believe that CumCum is a legal practice. According to the letter of the law, such transactions are not prohibited. It is only when they are exclusively introduced for tax reasons that illegal tax evasion is involved. A pure and simple tax penalty for such transactions would be to take a step too far. For this reason, measures are introduced by the same bill to reverse the burden of proof when pension funds, which are used for such transactions as a result of exemptions from the provision of movable discounts, have held the underlying securities only for a short period of time. In such cases, the pension fund should therefore demonstrate that it is not an unauthentic construction and that the main objective (or one of the main objectives) is not to avoid taxes. If this facilitates administrative controls, this does not exclude transactions that are economically motivated. Finally, in recent years, many transparency and information-sharing obligations have been introduced by the banking sector. We remain vigilant and further action will be taken if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u32	I should like to allow myself the floor in the absence of the President. Thank you for your answers, Minister. If I hear you correctly, you limit the amount of the damage to the amount that was already known and that you had already commented on in plenary session, namely EUR 200 million. If I have accepted your comments correctly, you say that there is no other known harm, which means that there may be unknown harm in excess of that 200 million. I have also taken note of your clarifications on the bill to amend the legislation in this area. With regard to professional secrecy in the Income Tax Code, which you regularly invoke when you are asked questions, I think it is not normal not to be able to give answers, when these are such large amounts coming from banking institutions that hold a fundamental function in the economy. This lack of answers is even less justified when it comes to an organization whose state is a shareholder, i.e. BNP Paribas. In this case, it is incomprehensible that you invoke the professional secrecy of the tax authorities. What is at stake is the policy of a bank in which the Belgian State is a shareholder. It is essential to be able to obtain answers to this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u33	Minister, you confirm both the facts and the amounts. These are facts and amounts that are all the more shocking because pension funds have been involved in fraud mechanisms, taking advantage of favourable tax conditions. This shows that this is not the panacea, contrary to what we are trying to make believe in pension policy. This again illustrates how unlimited the imagination and the means used by fraudsters are. I believe that public authorities must respond to this by such imaginative and effective means and in a European concertation. On the other hand, you are telling us that adaptations of the law are under way to prevent such practices from going on tomorrow. But it will take constant movement to fight fraud even more effectively. I hope that prosecution will begin. Because you refuse to mention the Belgian bodies that would have been involved. It's quite convenient to use your duty as a reserve and to use secrecy. Nevertheless, it is important to prosecute those who engage in such practices to deter or deter those who are tempted to imitate them. Furthermore, you did not answer my specific questions about the role of BNP Paribas in the file. This bank, of which we are the largest shareholder, continues to engage in problematic, illegal and unethical practices at all levels. And I ask you again to punch your fist on the table, if not directly, at least through our administrators. This is simply unbearable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u34	Mr Minister, on 19 September last I asked you about the case concerning the frozen Libyan funds and, in particular, about the possibility of Euroclear reporting to CTIF, following the payment of large sums of money to Libyan rightholders. In particular, you replied: "In addition, I can inform you that the Financial Information Processing Unit (TIFU) has not received any communication from banking institutions based in Belgium, following European Regulation 965/2011 of 28 September 2011 allowing Member States to authorise the release of funds held by entities associated with the Libyan regime." I then told you my astonishment at the failure of Euroclear to report transactions carried out, since Euroclear is a credit institution under Belgian law and, at the very least, transactions of such importance to Libyan legal holders, in the terrorist context we know and particularly in the context of the international freezing of Libyan assets, could or should have generated concerns and suspicions and should, in my view, have generated such an alert, allowing the CTIF to investigate the case. All this under the Act of 11 January 1993 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, i.e. the Anti-Money Laundering Act. That's why I'm asking you, Minister. How do you explain, if you can explain, the lack of reporting to CTIF by the banking institution concerned following the payment of several tens of millions of euros to Libyan rightholders in the context of the Libyan assets freeze? Do you consider that the reporting obligation did not apply in this case? Do you generally believe that the reporting obligation does not apply to this bank given its particular status? If so, on what basis do you rely on it? If not, what action has been taken or will it be taken against this institution that would have violated the anti-money laundering law by not reporting these payments?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u35	Mr Gilkinet, as is well known, in his capacity as supervisory authority and in accordance with the relevant European directives, the National Bank of Belgium is legally bound by an obligation of professional secrecy prohibiting it from making public comments on the internal organisation and the actions taken by financial institutions within its supervisory powers. Nor can it make public the individual control measures it takes with respect to these financial institutions. It is therefore not possible for me to answer the questions asked concerning the financial institution concerned. However, I can confirm that pursuant to section 22 of the Anti-Money Laundering Act of 11 January 1993, replaced since then by the Act of 18 September 2017, when financial institutions subject to that Act knew or suspected that a transaction to be executed was related to money laundering or the financing of terrorism, they were required to inform CTIF in writing. As in my answer to a previous question, however, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the transmission of a TIF report to an entity is in any case conditional on the existence of a suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing. The statement of suspicion to the TIF must be distinguished from the asset freeze communications to be addressed exclusively to the general cash administration. However, it does not appear that Libya was subject, as early as 2011, to targeted financial sanctions. This leads to the conclusion that when the funds are released, it must be considered that their transfer is ipso facto linked to money laundering or the financing of terrorism. I recall that the assets freeze is the result of Council Decision 2011/137 of 28 February 2011 concerning restrictive measures in view of the situation in Libya, in particular the use of violence and force against civilians and the repression of peaceful demonstrators. These sanctions were formalized in Council Regulation 204/2011 of 2 March 2011 concerning restrictive measures in view of the situation in Libya. The reasons also relate to the grave violations of human rights in Libya at that time, including attacks in violation of international law against civilian populations and facilities. A declaration to CTIF was therefore not automatically required. It would have been justified if other information at the disposal of the financial institution had been such as to cause the financial institution to suspect a link between the transfer of the funds concerned and money laundering or the financing of terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u36	Minister, the more I ask you about the case, the more perplexed I am. The professional secret has a good back. It prevents parliamentary scrutiny. Who supervises the BNB in the supervision of banking institutions with regard to compliance with the anti-money laundering law? It's a black box. In this case, as you have just pointed out, the situation in 2011 was particularly difficult in Libya. This justified the freezing obligation, which was not complied with by the banking institution and by the Belgian State. It was then estimated that the funds could be released. This payment should have been reported so that CTIF could investigate the case and verify that the funds were not used to finance terrorism. When you say that a statement to the CTIF was not necessary, it is in total contradiction with the Libyan settlement and situation that you have just described again. If not, when should the payment be reported to the TIFC? Here, tens of millions of euros have been paid to clearly misidentified Libyan rightholders. And you say that it is normal for the bank to wash its hands and fail to comply with the reporting obligations to CTIF. You are therefore complicit in the choice of this bank. Will it ever be possible to have real control over what happened at the time and real transparency? The facts are very serious. The issue of terrorism was discussed in the Committee of Inquiry for months following the horrific attacks in Brussels. For environmentalists, it is clear that the first step must be to combat the financing of terrorism. Here, a bank and oversight bodies have closed their eyes to at least suspicious transactions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u37	Mr President, this is a question on behalf of your colleagues from the Flemish Parliament. According to the provisions of heading XXXVII of Royal Decree No. 20 of 20 July 1970 fixing the rates of value added tax and the classification of goods and services at those rates, the reduced rate of VAT of 6% applies to the real-estate work and other transactions which are the subject of the demolition and the subsequent reconstruction of a dwelling situated in one of the 32 cities eligible for it. The demolition or demolition of constructions is generally subject to authorisation in Flanders. However, some demolition works may be exempted from authorisation. This is, for example, the case for the demolition or removal of items whose placement is exempt from authorisation, or for the complete demolition of a detached building or construction, provided that this is not - is included in the inventory of the architectural heritage, - greater than 100 square metres, - has a particular interest in the quality of the environment, has a popular, historical or aesthetic value, serves as a reference for the population of a neighbourhood or district, or contributes to the feeling of a local population to belong to a particular place. I would like to hear from the Minister whether the submission of an authorisation for demolition and reconstruction is an absolute condition for the application of the reduced VAT rate, or whether the application of the reduced VAT rate can also be enjoyed in cases where the demolition works are exempt from authorisation. Could the Minister indicate in his reply what specific VAT rules apply in this respect? By the way, this is not about destroying my monastery in Zemst, because Zemst is not one of the 32 cities. Of course, it is not intended to destroy this work. It's certainly not a personal question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u38	Mr Van Biesen, the obligation to issue a licence and everything that has to do with it has nothing to do with VAT. The reduced rate of VAT of 6% may apply in accordance with the section XXXVII mentioned only in the case of the breakdown works you are referring to firstly, to have the destruction of a building as an object; Secondly, a building which is also of significant size and has been built for sustainability purposes; third, to the extent that the person building the private house can demonstrate that the preceding demolition works of that building have also been carried out by him or on his behalf. For the rest, the permit doesn't go into that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic986x.u39	This answer will be welcomed in Flanders.
