ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u1	Minister, my question is dated, but I think it is good to update things. At the Infrastructure Committee on 22 March, I asked you about the renovation of the passenger building at Binche railway station. This question was posed to you shortly after elements of the façade were detached, fortunately without causing damage and injury to passengers travelling on trains daily from Binche station. You told me that the SNCB had already released an amount of 200,000 euros in order to stop the deterioration of the station while waiting to find a more lasting solution. In this regard, Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions. At present, only EUR 50 000 have been committed to securing the passenger building; can you tell me whether the remaining EUR 150 000 will be invested, given that you have announced that EUR 1.7 million will be made available in the multi-annual investment plan for securing and restoring this station?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u2	Minister, the soil of several docks at Namur Station is deteriorating, making it dangerous when it is wet (water infiltration, soil rolling, giant puddles, smooth and slippery tile,...). It is our responsibility that SNCB, aware of the problem, would have already provided a budget and a specification for this renovation. Can you confirm this information? If so, can you provide us with this specification, the planned schedule and the amount of work to be done?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u3	Madam President, in response to Mr. Van Hecke, I can answer the following. The multi-annual investment plans and the multi-annual strategic investment plans, as validated by the Council of Ministers on Friday 2 February 2018...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u4	Minister, you're under arrest. All general investment plan issues were eliminated. So answer only specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u5	All right. So with regard to the two questions you asked me, I wanted the mayors of all the municipalities to be informed. I think it's up to them. I believe that the mayor is the local authority which must be informed of the amounts which would be spent in particular on stations and stop points located in the territory of their commune. Mr Devin, this has put an end to fears about the Binche railway station, since I have asked SNCB to devote the necessary resources, i.e. EUR 1.6 million. As far as Namur is concerned, SNCB is planning an amount of €8.5 million in its 2018-2020 PPI for the multimodal station. SNCB is well aware of the status of the wharfs. Improving customer reception is, as you know, a priority for SNCB. It is studying short-term technical solutions to improve user comfort and safety, particularly in coatings, at a lower cost. In absolute terms, repairs to the wharfs will have to be designed in phases in order to minimize disruption to the operation of the station. With regard to the next more specific questions on IPRs, it was proposed that they be tabled in writing, Madam Chair, so as not to burden the oral questions in committee. I therefore invite Mrs Jadin to turn her questions into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u6	That's impossible, minister, they were joined. Mrs Jadin will reintroduce them, although they have already been postponed twice. Mr Devin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u7	I would like to thank the Minister for the necessary security attention he has given to the Binche station. It's not to be nice, it's for security and for all the people at the service of SNCB. To comply with the agreement reached by the President with you, Mr.Minister, I will not ask any further questions on this matter today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u8	Mr Minister, the sixth national survey of "road insecurity", conducted by the Vias Institute, gives some worrying findings, particularly as regards the use of telephones in driving and the speed of motorists. Indeed, one in three respondents admitted that they had been driving too fast in the past month. Moreover, Belgians still use gsm heavily in their cars: 25% phoned with a hands-free kit last month and 9% did so with the gsm in hand. In this regard, Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions. What measures do you intend to put in place in the short and long term to counter the ever-increasing use of the telephone while driving and the excessive speed of motorists? Are there any heavier fines for these offences? Will you pay attention beyond motorways and provide additional means to enforce these speed limits? It is often the communal authorities who have to invest in their own territory, while the sanctions imposed in case of excessive speed, the minutes, go into the federal caisses. In December 2016, you told me that new standards were being discussed to curb the use of gsm at the wheel, including insurance companies that provide lower premiums for vehicles equipped with data events records and systems that avoid the use of gsm when starting the vehicle. Can you give us any information about these measures? What is the status of the discussions at European level? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u9	Mr Minister, first of all, have you taken note of the results of the VIAS institution's survey? What's your reaction? Secondly, do you see any explanation for the greater annoyance in Flanders than in Wallonia and Brussels as a result of the use of the mobile phone behind the wheel? Thirdly, do you think that additional measures are needed to discourage the use of the mobile phone behind the wheel?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u10	Colleagues, the Vias investigation shows that the use of gsm at the wheel creates irritability to other drivers who witness this behaviour. This is in addition to the fact that driving by using your phone leads to distraction for the driver and leads to a much higher risk of accidents. That's why the gsm is not allowed at the wheel, except when the vehicle is stationary. As far as your questions are concerned, Mr Devin, in general, I plead for greater awareness of the dangers of excessive speed and gsm driving. Of course, this must be accompanied by much more checks to actually introduce a change in the behaviour of motorists. With regard to the measures taken against speeding offences, very soon the project on automation of the procedure for the collection of fines will be operational. This will optimize the prosecution of traffic offences and will actually punish all the offences that have been committed. At present, it is up to the European Union to lay down obligations to equip new vehicles with efficient technological systems that will contribute to improving road safety. The rapid implementation of these systems within vehicles is one of the best strategies to prevent accidents and road traffic violations. It is with this in mind that my administration actively participates in the various working groups. Among the many systems under consideration, the systems that will deal with speeding are among the priority actions to be implemented by the European Commission. On the other hand, the principle of the installation of mobile phone locking systems in all vehicles was not retained because of a negative cost-benefit relationship. It is also important to remember that only the issue of excess speed on highways falls under federal jurisdiction. The issue of speeding on other roads is a matter for the Regions. As far as the insurance sector is concerned, their initiative to provide lower premiums for vehicles equipped with event data recorders has not yet been extended to systems blocking the telephone. For further details, the Minister of Economy responsible for the matter should be questioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. For your approach to mobile use behind the wheel, you can take an example to the Netherlands. There is a system of bridge-installed cameras that can detect the use of mobile phones behind the steering wheel via ultra-high resolution, currently trial. I have read that this is also the subject of consultation and study work in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u12	Minister, this committee has often talked about track runners, but I would like to come back to that again. In 2017, there were more than 800 reports of track runners, an increase of 16% compared to the previous year and an increase of 63% compared to 2014, when there were 509. Unfortunately, in 2017, seven trackers also lost their lives and seven were seriously injured. Every time we have a debate or question about punctuality, it is also said that runners are a major reason for delays on the network. Infrabel detected 53 hotspots to which much attention would be paid. Neighborhood residents would often be the largest group of trackers. Half of them would indicate wanting to take a shorter route. I have the following questions. Are we looking for the causes of the increase in the number of track runners, despite the many efforts that we absolutely recognise, in particular distress campaigns, trip mats, closures and camera surveillance? Is there a causal link between the closure of consideration and the increase in the number of trackers, as they are mainly neighbors? That's why I made the comparison with the year 2014. Since then, a number of considerations have been closed. The 53 hotspots that have been detected are all systematically better protected against the phenomenon of track running. What budget is allocated for this? Is there any consultation with the municipalities? Is Infrabel thinking about building bridges or tunnels in areas where rail runs are common? Can you provide a list of crucial places that are known today?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u13	Madam President, Mr Geerts, in the graph I give you, the causes that lead to tracks are mentioned, for the years 2014-2015 in the inside of the circle and for the years 2016-2017 on the outside of the circle. Infrabel has called on an external agency to conduct a national survey in order to better understand the risk behaviour around the track and the target audience. The survey showed that taking a shortcut and walking activity continue to be the main causes of track running over the four years. Infrabel can only regret the increase in the cases of rail tracks, despite all the efforts that Infrabel is making to reverse the trend, both in technical terms and in terms of awareness. In addition to the human dramas resulting from these rash behaviours, which is, of course, the worst, the punctuality of trains also suffers. Each case identified shall be included in the Saferail database.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u14	Président: Jef Van den Bergh. There are no data available to establish a link between the closure of a road crossing and the increase in the number of rail traffic cases. However, in 2017 Securail prepared 416 minutes for cases of rail traffic on a road crossing in which the signalling was not respected. Infrabel wants to take priority measures in the 53 hotspots that have been identified. Fifty-five percent of all rail traffic is concentrated on 10% of the rail network. In 2017, Infrabel spent more than 325 000 euros on the further security of these hotspots with technical measures. Expenditure on technical measures in 2016 amounted to EUR 326 000. In addition, Infrabel conducts awareness campaigns to the general public every year, but also in schools located near these hotspots. Infrabel is also at the disposal of the municipalities to discuss any problems related to rail tracks. I would like to reiterate that this is dangerous behaviour and that it is precisely these behaviours that must be eradicated. The construction of very expensive tunnels or bridges is certainly not a miracle solution and can only be considered in the context of the abolition of a highway. This should also be done in cooperation with the municipalities and after a detailed analysis of the situation. I also provide the list of hotspots and the causes that give rise to tracks from 2014-2015 that you find on the inside of the circle and those from 2016-2017 on the outside of the circle.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u15	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Minister for the completeness and transparency of the answer, together with the dates. I have just looked at them with Mr Van den Bergh and we notice that these hotspots are quite concentrated on the network. There are about 17 in the Brussels region and this is one of the causes of the delays. Thank you for this transparency. I hope that, in addition to taking measures, there will also be a change of attitude, because when I look at the other graphs, I see that it is mainly because of that mentality.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u16	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u17	Mr President, Minister, in December 2017, SNCB's new transport plan entered into force. The total offer increased by 5.1 %, which is a serious step forward. However, there is the impression that the connections between the major stations are better served in this new transport plan. However, some minor adjustments mean a large increase in their journey time for commuters between smaller stations. For example, the first S3 train Zottegem-Brussels arrived in Denderleeuw at 05.18 hours. This allowed the passenger to switch to the S10 train of 05.23 hours. This train stops at a number of smaller stations in Brussels, which is very useful for those who work nearby. The new transport plan has advanced this S10 train by 2 minutes, which makes the switch, at 3 minutes, impossible in theory. SNCB charges a minimum of 5 minutes for a feasible transfer to platforms that are far apart. The switch is also practically impossible because the S3 train rarely arrives in Denderleeuw on time at that hour. One could opt for the S3 train to arrive on the same platform, reducing the theoretically feasible switching time to 3 minutes, or one could bring the time difference between the arrival of the S3 train and the departure of the S10 train back to 5 minutes. Since the change, the change is not feasible all day long. Mr Minister, here are my questions. Firstly, was SNCB aware when amending the transport plan that this connection was no longer feasible? Secondly, do we have any idea of the number of passengers affected by this situation on a daily basis? Thirdly, will one of the proposed solutions be considered in the future in order to make this connection possible again? If so, which one? If not, what is SNCB's response to the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u18	Mr President, SNCB informs me that it did decide to leave Denderleeuw two minutes earlier on the S10 link Aalst-Denderleeuw-Jette-Brussels. This decision was taken with a view to improving punctuality for as many travellers as possible. The arrival time in Brussels-North should not change. The connection with the S3 connection from Zottegem is indeed limited to 3 minutes. SNCB indicates that any change in the train offer takes place as far as possible taking into account the importance of the greatest number of passengers. SNCB is well aware of the negative impact of the decision on some travellers. SNCB adds that it aims to provide as many connections as possible in stations where several connections come together. Priority will be given to connections with the largest numbers of passengers. In the event of a future adaptation to the transport plan, SNCB will review the possibilities of connection.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u19	Minister, SNCB admits the problem. It is both theoretical and practically impossible to make the switch in so little time. This means that people have to wait much longer for a new connection and lose a lot of time. SNCB claims to give priority to larger transport flows and connections in larger stations, but if connections in smaller stations become problematic, this will result in fewer people opting for this form of transport and thus opt for other modes of transport. Indirectly, this is not good for the number of travellers. I therefore urge you to find a solution to this. Waiting for a further adaptation of the transport plan will be far too late and will probably cause many disappointed passengers to drop out. The answer you received from SNCB disappoints me. I hope she can fix this quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u20	Thank you, Mr President, a number of questions have already been asked. I would specifically like to ask two additional questions. In particular, no account was taken of the opinion of the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities, in which one asked for a door opening at 76 cm, so that there is an immediate accessibility because of the fact that platforms would also be increased to this height. Last week, during the debate on the investment files, we also said that the M7 is an important issue in SNCB's global resources. That's why we're sorry. We have also seen that people have gone to court in Switzerland because people now have no autonomy. The trial is still ongoing. Is the type of M7 carriages we have ordered the same as in Switzerland? Does this mean that the height of 76 cm will not be used in Belgium, so that people with wheelchairs or prams still need assistance? Will you demand from the manufacturer Bombardier that the height of the doors is compatible with the standard height of our platforms for the next deliveries that are also foreseen in the coming years?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, in the run-up to the decision on the M7 train, very extensive communication was made about their accessibility. The subject was also discussed several times in this committee. The ordered M7 carriages are not of the same type as the Swiss, but are double-deck carriages. That choice was necessary in order to offer sufficient seats on the train on the almost saturated rail network. The design of the train, which will run in Belgium, had to take into account three different platform heights, 28 cm, 55 cm and 76 cm. The platform height of 76 cm is a form recognised by the International Railway Union. Only a quarter of the stations are currently at the standard height of 76 cm. The standardisation of platforms at this level is a top priority of SNCB and as such is also included in the multi-annual investment plan. However, it will be years before the (...) of the platform height is a thing of the past. In assessing the accessibility of persons with reduced mobility to the rolling stock, account should be taken not only of the entry height of the vehicle but also of any slope inside the vehicle. Each set of M7 carriages will contain a multifunctional carriage. The boarding height at the multifunctional carriage will be 62 cm, via a lowered door in combination with a sloping falcon inside the carriage. It reduces the problem with platforms of 76 cm. The entry height for the other vehicles is 76 cm. However, assistance will always be needed for a wheelchair traveller. In addition to the difference in altitude, a horizontal opening between the platform and the train must be covered. However, I would like to point out once again that the number of stations where personal assistance for persons with reduced mobility can be requested up to three hours in advance has been doubled by SNCB. In total, this service has been offered in 41 major stations since the beginning of September 2017 versus 18 previously. In this way, SNCB aims to increase the provision of services to persons with reduced mobility. The extension of the measure will enable a large majority of the customers concerned to benefit from the short reservation period. Because these 41 major stations receive two thirds of all travellers in the week.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u22	Minister, every year in this country, foreigners staying here for a shorter or longer period of time exchange around 9 000 foreign driving licences for a Belgian driving licence. This happens without the person concerned having to take any theoretical or practical driving tests here. There are three legal bases on which the exchange takes place. For EU nationals, this is the Directive 2006 126/EC. There are bilateral agreements with a number of countries. Finally, there are also exchanges on the basis of the Convention on Road Traffic of 8 November 1968. In particular, the exchange on the basis of these two latter legal bases raises serious questions. For countries such as Switzerland or the United States, there is obviously no problem with the switch, because we can assume that those states of law have proper driving training, which must be successfully completed, before drivers receive a driving licence. However, these guarantees do not apply to many other countries. There may be theoretical legislation on driving training in these countries, but in practice, as a result of corruption and a lack of the rule of law, driving licences can be obtained on a large scale, without the necessary driving training. When people who have thus obtained their foreign driving licence, who come here to exchange it for a Belgian driving licence, they pose a danger on our roads, with all possible consequences for road safety. The majority of driving licence exchanges are carried out by nationals of dubious African and Asian countries. We therefore believe that it is essential for the safety of our roads that nationals of such countries should not be admitted to traffic here, as far as possible. You have a lot of opportunities to work on that. For countries whose nationals can exchange their driving licences through bilateral agreements, it is perfectly possible to terminate that agreement, in the case of such dubious countries. There are also opportunities for nationals of countries who have signed the Convention of 8 November 1968 on road traffic. The Convention provides in Article 41, 6B, that Contracting Parties are not obliged to recognise the validity of foreign driving licences issued to drivers who have moved to another territory since the issue of those licences. It is therefore indeed due to Belgian regulations that foreigners who are resident in Belgium can exchange a foreign licence without any further duties against a Belgian driving licence. If nationals of these countries who are dominated here wish to drive around with a car, they are always free to take the driving tests, as is the case for all Belgians. This is an important problem, Minister, for road safety. In the meantime, the Flemish Minister for Mobility is taking all kinds of measures to tighten up driving tests to increase road safety on our roads. In the meantime, however, if this is destroyed by incompetent drivers on the job, this policy does not bring much damage to road safety. Do you indeed recognise that the ferocious and almost blind exchange of driving licences from a number of countries against a Belgian driving licence is really problematic for road safety in our country? Are you considering taking measures to stop automatic exchange in relation to those countries, if that is possible? What initiatives can we expect from you in this regard, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u23	Mrs Pas, the exchange of foreign, non-European driving licences is by no means in vain, since it concerns the exemption from the theoretical and practical driving test and is only allowed if the conditions of the Geneva Convention or, where appropriate, the bilateral agreement with the country where the foreign driving licence was issued are met. First and foremost, each of the following conditions must be met before the exchange takes place. Firstly, the foreign licence must have been issued by the country where the holder was habitually resident at the time the licence was issued. Secondly, the licence must be issued for registration in the population, foreigner or guard register of a Belgian municipality. Any foreign driving licence offered for exchange shall be subject by the federal police to an authenticity check. It then examines the categories of vehicles for which the foreign driving licence is eligible. In most cases this is only category B. I do not have figures on the number of drivers driving around Belgium with a driving licence from the countries benefiting from an exemption from the theoretical and practical examination. Only 2% of drivers involved in a physical injury accident in Belgium do not come from the European Union. In view of the fact that part of that 2% obtained the driving licence in Belgium, it can be assumed that the impact on Belgian road safety is small. I am not considering any measures today to stop the exchange of foreign driving licences for certain countries. Nor do I intend to conclude new agreements with other countries if road safety, the quality of driving training and driving tests and the safety features of driving licences do not correspond to the European standard or if the risk of corruption or forgery in the issuing of driving licences is too great. When exchanging European driving licences, I think it is recommended that RESPER, the European network of databases for national driving licences, be consulted. With the current technological resources, only the FPS Mobility and Transport can currently manually consult the network. Given the significant volume of European driving licences offered for exchange, not every driving licence can be sought. This will only happen today if there is doubt as to whether the licence has expired, if it has been lost, stolen, damaged, illegible or destroyed. RESPER shall also be consulted when the holder applies for the exchange with a certificate from the administration of the Member State which issued the licence. Moreover, the information in RESPER is not yet uniform for all European Member States and some of the 28 connected databases are not equally reliable. Pending improvement, it will be examined whether the consultation of RESPER can be automated in the future in order to prevent the exchange of fake driving licences at all times. Furthermore, holders of a European driving licence are informed that their driving licence is recognised and valid in Belgium and that a switch is only necessary until the end of the administrative period. Only if a licence does not yet have an administrative validity, the exchange is compulsory within the second year of registration of the holder in a Belgian municipality.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for reading out a very comprehensive answer. I would remind you that you do not wish to take any action, as I had asked. I regret that. You're covering fake driving licences, but I'm not talking about fake driving licences at all. It is true that driving licences are genuine, but they are delivered in countries where the holders have not received proper driving training. You're talking about authentication of the driver's licenses. This is, of course, useless when it comes to countries where driving training hardly exists or does not exist. You say that you do not intend to terminate the bilateral agreements. You do not intend to work on the treaty of 8 November 1968. That treaty is 50 years old, it dates back to the time when driving licences were handed out here without an examination. In traffic problems, 1968 is the prehistory. In reply to my written questions, Minister, you indicate the number of changes in driving licences per country. This list contains many countries where there are no driving schools and where there are hardly any road signs. For the sake of road safety, I can only deeply regret that you do not wish to take any initiatives. I hope that the Chamber will have that common sense and encourage you to do so. I will therefore table a motion for a recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u25	Madam President, we believe that in the inquiry that is being made, the problem is not so much the "permit", but rather the word "foreigner". We therefore put forward a simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u26	Perfect. She'll go to plenary. Thank you, Mr. Flahaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u27	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of Belgian Railways, - having regard to the Convention on Road Traffic of 8 November 1968 (Vienna Convention, replacing the Geneva Convention of 19 September 1949), - having regard to bilateral agreements with a number of countries on the mutual recognition of national driving licences, - having regard to Article 23 (2) of the Road Police Act, - having regard to the Royal Decree of 23 March 1998 on driving licences, - whereas in a number of countries which are currently exchanging foreign driving licences for a Belgian driving licence there are insufficient guarantees that possession of such a licence can serve as proof of the theoretical and practical driving ability of the holder of that certificate; - Whereas this poses a major risk to traffic safety; - whereas it is therefore necessary to review the automatic exchange of a foreign driving licence for a Belgian driving licence, as it currently stands, calls on the Federal Government to take measures to ensure that the exchange of foreign driving licences with Belgian driving licences will now only take place for nationals of countries who have good driving training and for which there are sufficient guarantees that the holding of a driving licence of such a country effectively proves to have had a sound theoretical and practical driving training which can pass the test of Belgian standards in this respect." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Minister of Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of Belgian Railways, - having regard to the Convention on Road Traffic of 8 November 1968 (Vienna Convention, replacing the Geneva Convention of 19 September 1949); - having regard to bilateral conventions on the mutual recognition of national driving licences signed with several States; - having regard to Article 23, § 2 of the Law on the Road Traffic Police; - having regard to the Royal Decree of 23 March 1998 on driving licences; - Whereas exchanges of foreign driving licences against a Belgian driving licence currently carried out with certain States do not provide sufficient guarantees as to the probative value of such a driving licence with regard to the theoretical and practical driving skills of holders of such a licence; - Whereas this constitutes a major danger to road safety; - Whereas it is therefore necessary to review the current procedure governing the automatic exchange of a foreign driving licence for a Belgian driving licence, Calls on the Federal Government to take measures to ensure that the exchange of foreign driving licences for Belgian driving licences is now limited to nationals of countries which organise adequate driving training and which provide sufficient guarantees that the holders of driving licences issued by those countries have actually received adequate theoretical and practical driving training comparable to the standards applied in this field by Belgium." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Jean-Jacques Flahaux. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u28	Madam President, Minister, following BAC's plans to expand the airport, I am free to return to the Leuven straight ahead. I know, Minister, that the extension of the airport is not within your competence, as you stressed in plenary. The fact that a growth scenario of the airport has its consequences, including for the area under Leuven Straight ahead, is beyond question. Even without the flight route Leuven Straight ahead, this growth scenario of the airport means that Haacht and its surroundings will get huge noise from landing aircraft. It is clear that the current concentration is really unacceptable, as I have said before, but this additional element will make it even worse. If nothing changes and enlargement takes place, this area will be hit very hard. I have already said here that a flight law would be a good thing, provided that the concentration of Leuven is resolved straightaway. Well, now I say no expansion of the airport without Leuven being resolved straight ahead. The removal or significant reduction of the rising planes above our region should be given priority. Minister, what are the next steps you will take to solve the problem of the Leuven straight ahead flight route? On what time do you see that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u29	Madam President, Minister, it has been more than a year since an audit by DGTA revealed that Belgocontrol did not comply with wind standards and PRS procedures! Almost eight months ago you announced that you were going to clarify these wind standards and procedures! We didn't bother you very much, we let you work, and we imagined that the delay thus accumulated was due to the fact that Belgocontrol is making resistance in order to preserve its freedom to interpret wind standards and procedures as it sees fit, without taking into account either the will of the author of these standards (yourself) or their supervisory authority (the DGTA). The audit found that Belgocontrol was a State in the State and did not comply with these instructions. This delay is very detrimental to those who are flying over under a deliberate misinterpretation of these norms and procedures, which rightly perceive a great sense of injustice that may turn into anger. It is really high time to act, Minister. So when can we expect the announced clarification? Can you already give us an outline? I recall that these were the capabilities of Runway 19, the wind in altitude, the interpretation of the seven wind knots reached or exceeded, and the interpretation of the gust.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u30	Mr Minister, on page 41 of our committee's report on the preferential use of runways at Brussels-National Airport during the period from 2 to 10 October 2016, the report referred to by Mr Dallemagne states: "The minister states that he has not yet validated the parameters of the RAAS so far. This tool was introduced in the fall of 2016. However, the Minister does not know if it is actually used. In the meantime, DGTA and Belgocontrol interpreted the 2013 instructions differently. In view of this divergence of interpretation, clarification is absolutely essential. In order to achieve a collective and balanced solution, all parties will have to show good will." You said there was a need for clarification. In the light of your statements last July and given that you are competent to issue the aforementioned instructions, I would like to ask you what steps you have taken to clarify these instructions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say once again that I want to come up with a global solution which includes all the elements of the dossier, such as the air routes. The solution must also be global in the following sense. An approach that focuses exclusively on one or other geographical area involves the risk that the problem will only be solved in part or that it will only be shifted. The impact study to be carried out on noise pollution around Brussels airport, for which a public contract for the designation of the entity to be responsible for carrying it out is under way, is aimed at all areas and regions and will have to provide avenues for alternative solutions. The results of this study will therefore be important in the search for a solution. It would be mismanagement to take haste measures that could be quickly contradicted by the study. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the issue of Leuven Rechtdoor is currently being studied by the Brussels Court of Appeal. Any decision must therefore respect the judgment to come. Since the courts have already decided twice in opposing directions, the decision cannot be prejudged. The timing of this decision depends on the workload of the Court of Appeal. With regard to the audit and clarification of wind standards, since the presentation and discussion of the audit in July, I have worked on a draft clarification based on the recommendations of DGTA and ICAO wind standards. It is now about to be finalized and is the subject of technical discussions between the actors directly involved in the implementation. It will then be submitted to Belgocontrol for the Safety Case for implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u32	Minister, I can go along with your idea of a global solution. Indeed, you cannot come up with a solution for each region, which is rather weedy. That you do not want an approach with the focus on one region seems to me to be the logic itself, and that is your job. Only that global solution is a long time coming. I am beginning to wonder whether there is actually going to be anything of this during this term of office. I think this has gone on long enough. You should finally lay an egg.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u33	Minister, it's hopeless. Whenever you are asked about this file, we are referred to imprecise dates, to Greek calends. The feeling we had from the beginning is that the government wanted to sit on this issue and not move it forward, which is, unfortunately, confirmed day by day. You're talking about markets that will create impact studies that will make it possible to...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u34	In my opinion, the rule of public procurement...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u35	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u36	Minister, you know very well that quick windows were possible that it was possible to act faster. You know very well that, on the wind standards, you could have simply said that the July 2013 instruction was applicable, point to the line. You are simply under pressure with a whole series of constraints and you think that it is better to move forward as quickly as possible. Meanwhile, tens of thousands of people suffer from this government's inability to simply promote common sense and what had been decided notably through the DGTA, undressed in this case by Belgocontrol, which also continues to make the rain and the good weather. I deeply regret it. I don't think that's a sign of good governance. Referring to impact studies clearly means that there will be no decision under this government, including on aspects for which decisions had been made. Ms. Galant pointed to the canal of planes that were previously oriented elsewhere. She did not need impact studies. These planes could simply have been put back where they were before. This does not require an impact study.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u37	Mr.Minister, we had understood for some time that there would be no decision under this Parliament. However, this was one of the campaign priorities of the MR, we saw how he ratiborated other parties in some communes on the subject of the Brussels overflight. Yesterday I was with people from Laeken who were asking me about this. I told them I would question you today, but I was very pessimistic about it. I really think you're blocked by a part of the government, by the Dutch-speaking parties, so that you don't change. With regard to the Directorate-General for Air Transport (DGTA) and the standards that are variously interpreted, you could have changed them a long time ago, since it was you, with more than virile comments, who said in committee that you were going to put Belgocontrol back on track, that you were going to apply the instructions and directives as they were decided. Indeed, Mrs. Galant, to direct everything towards the canal, had much less scruples than you. You say that measures are being finalized. I don't know if I have to believe you. I imagine that they will be implemented before the end of the Easter holidays and that there will be, at least, a correct interpretation of the instructions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u38	Three elements. First of all, I think everyone here wants to respect the rules of public procurement. In any case, I will not derogate from it for the impact study.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u39	In this case, we do not need a public procurement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u40	Everyone will have the floor. I'm trying to enforce the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u41	First, I respect the rules of the public procurement to the letter for the impact study. Secondly, I am saddened to hear some words saying that we decide and the next day it is applicable. What are you doing with the safety box? You decide on an instruction. It takes 8 to 30 weeks to implement them. What did I tell you? I said in my reply that this is about to be finalized and is the subject of technical and not political discussions. This means that we are in the technical phase. Change the highway planes? We've seen what it's been like. This has been tested for 20 years. Mr Dallemagne, you know very well what a predecessor of Mrs Galant did and moving them was not a solution. We need a structural solution and not a solution of moving planes from one road to another. This systematically leads to legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u42	Madam President, I will be brief. Minister, I have stressed that I agree with you. Of course, there must be a structural solution. No one's gonna benefit from a little junk in the margins. It's just taking way too long. If you say that we are now at the stage of technical discussions, then my specific question is when this will be concluded and when we will be able to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u43	Minister, your answer is clear. All the planes that have been moved to Brussels all these years will remain in Brussels. That's what you just told us. Yes, you said, "We will not move the planes from one road to another." That's exactly what you said. It is very clear, and it will be known. I think there's no other way than to move... but that's exactly what it is! You said that the planes have been moved from one road to another and that this has created problems and will no longer be displaced. That's exactly what it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u44	Mr Dallemagne, as part of your reply, do not question the minister any more.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u45	Madam President, he's the one who interrupts me. The second thing is that you have said well that, after technical discussions, we should still have a long time for implementation. There will therefore be no implementation under this government. It's good for you. The third element that I want to remind you is that it makes it easier for you to hide behind public procurement. There is a whole series of decisions that do not require a public procurement. These are the ones we ask you to take.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u46	Minister, I will be very short. We don't need to talk about impact studies. We are talking about the instructions and audit of 2016 carried out by DGTA. The instructions do not change anything in relation to the impact study, of course. You're the one who challenged yourself by saying that you would respect everything. You said it in front of DGTA and you said it in front of Belgocontrol. But today, nine months later, we see that absolutely nothing has been done. This is the only conclusion that can be drawn: planes always fly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u47	Minister, on Sunday, March 25, Brussels Airport sells its art collection at a particular auction. The profits of this sale will be donated to several initiatives and charities. The auction catalogue was released on March 1. Two tables were originally planned for sale. It seems that there is only one today, according to the latest information. These two paintings, signed by the MP Open Vld Rik Daems, can be found in the catalogue of the sale. Mr Rik Daems was then Minister for Telecommunications and Public Enterprises, in charge of Brussels airport from 1999 to 2003. It was he who prepared the privatisation of the company. Minister, there are one or two paintings by Rik Daems on sale. Does the airport have any other works by the same artist? When did the Brussels airport acquire these paintings from Rik Daems? How much did the airport buy these canvases? To whom was this amount paid?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u48	Dear colleague, in the Royal Decree of 27 May 2004, Brussels Airport Company is a private limited company. Its heritage is therefore not within the competence of the Minister for Aeronautics and Airport Materials. The Belgian State has minority shares in the airport shares, but once again this is not within my jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u49	You're being careful with sioux. I was interested in whether a minister in office had sold his paintings to a company that at the time was a public company, and where the products of that sale had gone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u50	I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u51	I can inform you. The proceeds of the sale went to a charity and not at all to Mr. Daems. I also asked the question at the time. The minister won nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u52	Minister, several users explain that they experience difficulties with the mobile application of SNCB. My question, however, dates from 2 February, perhaps the situation has improved in the meantime. Supposed to inform users in real time, this application can sometimes prove to be disadvantageous for users because there would be bugs. Previously, it was often advanced on ads at the docks, which was very beneficial. For some time, however, there have been many worries and sometimes bad information, delaying users or wasting valuable time on them. SNCB CEO Sophie Dutordoir announced last October the creation of a new application to track trains in real time, which would greatly facilitate commuters' daily lives and would be a real added value. Why so many problems with this application, especially recently? Are there any solutions to solve this synchronization problem? When will the new application announced by Ms Dutordoir be developed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u53	Dear colleague, SNCB informs me that there have recently been various problems relating to the real-time data flow concerning rail traffic to the site and mobile application, since the applications used are relatively old. SNCB assures me that it has taken the necessary steps to remedy this situation. SNCB states that it is constantly adding opportunities to its smartphone application. A general renewal of the application is expected at the end of 2018, in the more global market for digitalisation of all processes. SNCB has also developed a way to improve the quality and consistency of data through the various information channels. The first concrete results are expected to be visible to travellers by the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u54	Mr Minister, we would like to ask a question about an incident which took place in Mechelen on 19 February but which unfortunately has already happened in the past, not the incident itself but the way in which those problems were answered. In concrete terms, 1000 passengers were stopped and it was noted that the evacuation of the passengers, who had been trapped for 3 hours on the train, went almost smoothly. These were trains where heating and air conditioning didn't work and where after 3 hours it got quite stuffy. In response to the incidents in the summer, in April 2017 in Wontergem, we also asked questions about this. It was then replied that a discussion would be launched with DVIS in order to make it easier for train drivers, who may or may not have full knowledge of the line, to be able to break down. Drivers, in large depots and passenger nodes, would be kept on standby and communication would be much better. Now I come to my questions. How come the evacuation took so long? There was also 1 walkway where it took more than an hour for all passengers to get off. Why aren't there several walkways? So how come the evacuation took so long? How come there were no train drivers there yet? Work has already been done to keep equipment on standby so that one can evacuate faster. It is also said that water will be distributed on the train. It turns out this didn't happen either. How did this happen? With regard to the main, the compensation, people complain that it is too complex. Those who went to the trouble received compensation of EUR 3.70. To have this for four hours in prison. The people who went to the trouble afterwards, and who received the mail of compensation in the event of delay, in which SNCB apologized for the inconvenience and would like to grant 3.70 euros, were actually struck in the face.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u55	Minister, I agree with Mr Geerts' questions. It is getting a little frustrating to have to ask again and again in the event of such incidents how they can be better dealt with. Every time we get the answer that plans are being drawn up to better organise communication to travellers in the event of incidents and emergency care for stranded travellers, but the next incident shows that this is still very difficult or defective. In this sense, I would therefore like to ask you once again my questions, but I am particularly counting on clear agreements, procedures and initiatives to ensure that passengers are properly received and communicated in the event of such incidents. I have the following specific questions, Minister. Can you explain more about the cause of the incident and the further handling? What steps have been taken by SNCB to disarm passengers? How does SNCB itself evaluate the incident? I assume that evaluation was made. Are there any changes to the procedures needed? What measures has SNCB taken in recent years? They have been announced on several occasions in order to deal more quickly with situations where passengers are stuck on a train? What measures is SNCB planning for the future? Is it being sent in? How does the cooperation between SNCB and Infrabel proceed in such circumstances? Are there any additional arrangements or adjustments needed here? How did the communication to the travelers go during the incident? Is there a clear procedure for this, because that remains a pain? After all, when the train stopped, we were told that communication was absolutely inadequate. Again, it is the umpteenth time that we have heard such complaints in an incident, and I find it regrettable that we do not yet see a positive evolution there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u56	SNCB informs me that the incident is due to the jerking off of the overhead contact line, which has rolled up around the pantograph of the locomotive. SNCB acknowledges that the incident took a long time in total. However, it should be stressed that the location was poorly accessible, that the weather conditions were unfavourable, that it was dark and that 1000 people had to be evacuated. The only solution was to have them switched to another train in full orbit. The decision to prepare and send an emergency train on site was made within half an hour after the train stopped. The transfer of passengers took 1 hour, because the train consisted of two train halves that were not connected to each other. What also made things difficult was that the train was not made up of the same equipment. In order to install the evacuation bridge, the doors of a carriage had to be placed opposite those of the emergency train. This had to be done for the two train sections. SNCB adds that the equipment is used very intensively during the peak and that there is no reserve as such that is immediately available. According to SNCB, water and food distribution could not be organised at the site of the incident itself because of the poor accessibility of the site and because of the logistics that had to be set up to supply 1000 people. Bringing the food on board the emergency train would have allowed the evacuation to last even longer. However, there was a distribution at the stations of Mechelen, Berchem and Antwerpen-Central. As far as SNCB's compensatory forms are concerned, they are currently being completely reworked. However, in order to be able to deal with claims for compensation, essential elements are needed to identify the customer's train. In response to these incidents, SNCB issued a directive which would preferably use the same type of equipment as an aid element in the event of passenger evacuation. Secondly, the intervention coordinator should regularly consult with the train supervisor, Securail, on the course of the incident. There is an intervention plan setting out the different steps to be taken when such an occurrence occurs. The coordinators of the incident of SNCB and Infrabel are in constant contact with each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u57	Thank you for your answer. I can only observe that in a privatised market, as in England, the management agreements stipulate that there must be material on standby. I know there's a cost involved. We are going to have to look at whether this possible cost of staff on standby can not be lower than what it costs us now in these repeated incidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u58	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I hear many reasons why it has been difficult or not good. That should be a lesson to look at opportunities to help, to the traveller, to opportunities and to what can be done. I am left with the difficult feeling that we are always chasing the facts. Perhaps there are reasons for this, such as procedures to be followed, but we need to look more closely at the importance of the traveller who is stranded at that time than at procedures and that kind of thing. So I continue to insist on a better approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u59	Mr Minister, on Thursday 8 January we had a meeting with a Kempian delegation of mayors and MPs with Infrabel and SNCB on Kempian rail records. One of the questions raised was whether or not additional ticket machines would be placed in the stations of Turnhout and Bouwel. In Turnhout, where there is a way around, dangerous situations often arise or people miss their train. Everyone almost fell off their seats when the SNCB representative said that a ticketing machine costs 500 000 euros. I took note of that and added that I would question you as a competent minister on this matter. Is it true, Minister, that the installation of a ticketing machine costs EUR 500 000? How many years does the investment have to be written off? After all, I assume that the software needs to be updated regularly. How many tickets should be sold in a station to qualify for a new vending machine? What are the wage costs of a windowkeeper for a year? I'd like to compare that amount to the cost of a ticketing machine.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u60	SNCB informs me that the installation costs of a machine depend heavily on the configuration on the spot, the subsurface on which the machine is placed and the proximity of a connection to the electricity grid. If the nettle is far away, an optical fibre cable may need to be laid, which will greatly increase costs. The average installation costs of a vending machine are 15 000 euros. In addition to the installation costs, the unit costs of the machine itself will be EUR 20 000. The average cost of placing a vending machine thus amounts to a total of 35 000 euros. These costs may, in certain cases, amount to EUR 45 000. A vending machine is written off in ten years. It is considered that a station at a stop point should achieve more than 5 000 sales per month in order to have a second machine. In Turnhout, the average sales is 3 000. The criterion of the number of monthly sales is an essential criterion, but not the only one, which determines the number of vending machines to be placed. Specific situations such as day, week or year distribution of sales, strong peaks and a very large distance between the platform and the vending machine can be taken into account. SNCB adds that the comparison of the cost of the vending machine with the cost of a counter operator is not relevant. At the cost of a counter operator we have to add the cost of a lot of other services, such as heating costs and the costs of premises and buildings or machines.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. With the Kempian delegation we will have another talk with SNCB. The argument of EUR 500 000, which was put forward at the time, is clearly incorrect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u62	Madam President, Minister, at the beginning of December there was attention to a study by the Vias Institute, which shows that middle-class driving in traffic is one of the main sources of irritation, after bumper-sticking and not using the direction indicators. At the beginning of December, you responded to this message by saying that you wanted to tackle middle-class driving and put this item on the agenda of the Federal Commission on Road Safety, in order to settle this. In the meantime, it's March 21st. Our group has tabled a legislative proposal in this area aimed at making middle-class driving a second-degree offence, such as catching up on the right, knowing that one is often the result of another. It is important that, together with increasing the fine to a second-degree fine, there should also be a greater chance of taking action by carrying out more checks. Minister, has there been an opinion from the Federal Committee on Road Safety? If so, what is the opinion and what is your reaction to it? If not, what's the timing? Will you take an initiative about the problem of middle class driving yourself? Or do you leave that to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the question was put to the members of the Federal Committee on Road Safety at the meeting on 26 February, with a view to discussing this issue at the next meeting in June, on the basis of a preliminary note from my administration. I can tell you that it is not so much a question of the gravity of the fine, i.e. of the first or second degree, but rather of the definition itself of middle-class driving. More specifically, these are the following questions. From what point is someone a middle-class driver? When is there enough traffic to keep driving in the middle? In order to answer these questions, we believe that only a police officer in the field can assess the situation and decide whether or not the middle-class driver is a danger to road safety and mobility. I hope to find answers to this on the basis of the positions adopted at the next meeting of the Federal Road Safety Commission in June 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u64	However, Minister, at the beginning of December 2017, I read that you had declared that middle-class driving is the first source of irritation. You said it was a problem because it makes our roads very dangerous. In your response, you noted that sometimes it can happen quickly. Now I have to say that you are replying that the dossier will have to be discussed in more detail in June. I hope that you will keep to your announcement and that you will take a decision in the near future, even in June or July. Vias is an institute that has often delivered good results. If a driver who travels many kilometres experiences that middle-class driving in our traffic is often the first source of annoyance, you must intervene in your capacity as a competent minister. At the end of June, I will once again ask you a question on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u65	Mr Minister, we recently learned from the press that a project on road traffic offences was being discussed in the Council of Ministers. The aim of the project is to extend the list of offences detected by automatic cameras in the absence of a qualified official. These cameras have the ability to detect license plates. For example, they reveal a series of offences without the presence of an agent, including counter-sense traffic on the country's highways, non-compliance with directional arrows, overtaking trucks on the highway in case of rain... However, according to experts, the reliability of the system is not total. The minimum recognition rate is 93 per cent. Since the automatic camera system is not 100% reliable, what measures do you intend to put in place to avoid errors? Will an opinion be sought from the Privacy Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u66	In response to your questions, I would point out that the law does not require that a notice be sought from the Commission for the Protection of Privacy when an adjustment to the Royal Order of December 18, 2002, which includes the list of road offences that can be detected automatically, is envisaged. Then, when ANPR cameras are coupled to a route that measures the average speed of vehicles, the Royal Decree of 12 October 2010 requires an accuracy of 99.8% of the speed measurement. The rate of recognition of license plates, however, is not defined in a true federal regulation. However, it is permissible for a minimum threshold to be set in a specification when the systems are acquired by the Regions or by the law enforcement authorities. I would also like to reiterate that placing these cameras is one of the tasks of the police area. The cameras are therefore placed at the initiative of the Regions, especially for the portals via a pass, and by the police, in agreement with the King's prosecutors, who will place them. Therefore, the ANPR quality should not be confused with the percentage fixed for the average speed of vehicles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u67	I thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u68	Madam President, Minister, several residents of the Tournai entity complain about the noise and visual nuisances caused by the increasingly low-altitude overflight of aircraft landing at Lille-Lesquin airport. Recently, a petition from a neighbourhood particularly affected by this problem has even been sent to you. According to the depository of the petition, the procedure for landing aircraft to Lille-Lesquin was modified in May 2016. This information would have been confirmed by the Mobility FPS. I already intervened on the subject of the Tournai flyover in January 2017 via a written question and you had then brought me a whole series of answers. In particular, you explained to me that only landings at Lille-Lesquin airport to the west (piste 26) lead to the overflight of the south-west sector of the town of Tournai and that there are an average of 22 arrivals per day using this procedure. In addition, during the night, from 10 p.m. to 6 p.m., in 2016, there were 552 arrivals at Lille-Lesquin, 75 per cent of which were using Runway 26 (so flying over Tournai). Minister, do you confirm that the procedure for landing aircraft to Lille-Lesquin was changed in 2016? Does Belgian legislation provide for restrictions on night flights over low-lying cities, as is the case in Tournai? If so, what are they? Is this respected in the case of Tournai? Is the minimum altitude of 2000 feet consistently respected for flights over Tournai? What is the minimum speed of the west wind requiring the overflight of Tournai for landing? When the wind is weak, is there no way to avoid overflight of this area? Have you received the petition from the residents of the Pic-au-Vent neighbourhood in Tournai? If so, was an answer given to them? Is it planned to change the current landing procedure so that the curve used by the aircraft focuses on the overflight of agricultural and non-residential areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u69	Mr Delannois, your questions have caught my full attention. Moreover, they are interesting since they concern the operation of an airport close to a border. Unfortunately, most of the answers to your questions are to be sought from the French authorities. My administration is responsible for the collection of information. In addition, I drew the attention of the French authorities to this specific case, in order to learn about the technical criteria of the procedures implemented by DGAC (Directorate-General for Civil Aviation). We will then explore possible improvements in accordance with our respective responsibilities. Nevertheless, I can confirm that Lille-Lesquin Airport introduced, on 3 March 2016, air navigation procedures based on the use of the global GPS positioning system for landing and take-off. They enable better control of trajectories and thus further improve safety. As a result of this greater precision, the trajectories are much more tightened than in the case of so-called "classical" procedures. As far as Tournai is concerned, situated perfectly in the axis of the western wind landing procedure, the trajectories that were previously scattered around this city - since the technical equipment was not very precise - now all revolve around a very narrow beam to the south-west of the city. It should be noted that the prevailing winds come, of course, from the southwest. This explains the recurrent use of this approach procedure. I confirm that DGTA received a copy of the petition signed by 114 individuals, which was forwarded to the French DGAC. I will not fail to come back to you as soon as the information has come to me and it has been analysed. Finally, I can tell you that I have sent the information back through the French Embassy to the competent French ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u70	Minister, thank you for acting as a bridge. I will therefore wait for the future explanations that you will give me, at least if France deigns to answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u71	Minister, I come back to you regarding the old railway line located on the bridge from Allain to Tournai, whose access, a few months ago, was condemned to avoid any pedestrian crossing for safety reasons. In fact, barriers had been set up by SNCB to prohibit access to them. Recently, it appears that the security barriers have been removed and that on Allain's side a clearing is under way. Minister, could you tell me why the security barriers were removed? Does this mean that pedestrians can take the bridge again? What will happen to this bridge? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u72	Dear colleague, the bridge of Allain is located on the old line 88A Tournai-Chercq. It is one of the lines coveted by the Walloon Region as part of its RAVel project. SNCB informs me that for safety reasons, signs have indeed been placed to prohibit passage on the deck in poor condition. The removal of these signs is probably due, once again, to an act of malice for which a complaint will be lodged with the police. SNCB is taking the necessary steps to secure the area. However, local authorities are called upon to strengthen monitoring. It should be noted that if neither the SPW nor the City wishes to resume this part of the line for the RAVel, a section between the swimming pool of L'Orient and Chercq, SNCB will quickly introduce a demolition permit for this bridge, as well as for two other nearby works of art. SNCB ensures that it remains open to any initiative aimed at reallocating this section of the line.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u73	Minister, I think SNCB is lying to you. A little by chance, before I asked my question, I passed by the bridge yesterday. So I went to see what was going on. I can assure you that the bridge is really free of access. It is very easy to achieve this. There was no act of malice, I assure you. There may have been, at some point, Heras barriers that have been laid but there is nothing left today. I can assure you that there is a real danger; I saw it last night. In my opinion, I will take action. If you have 30 seconds, I can show you some photos I took yesterday. There are visiting rooms that are completely open. If at night someone ventured into it, there would be a serious problem. That being the case, in relation to the proposal you are making at the level of the Region and the City, I will analyse it. The question that I have to ask myself is that it costs a demolition and that, if necessary, it would cost a small amount of work to ensure that this bridge can still exist, knowing that it is a rather bucolic framework for walkers, joggers, etc. I don't know what it's like to be demolished, but I think we should wait and think.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u74	Minister, we recently learned from the press that a report on SNCB's confidential activities has announced internally the removal of Thalys' judgments in Lille Europe as early as 2019. As a reminder, the Brussels-Lille journey takes 36 minutes by Thalys but 1h13 by car. After the abolition of the Thalys Wallon which had a negative impact on the development of the Walloon Region, this abolition would affect not only the 250 commuters who make the journey between Lille and Brussels every day, but also the economic and cultural links of two major European cities. It already appears that Eurostar will not be able to compensate for this abolition. Minister, do you confirm this desire to abolish Thalys in Lille Europe? Has the impact of such a decision been assessed? What would it be in place for train supply to compensate for this abolition?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u75	First of all, I would point out that Thalys has become a private company, even if the shareholders are public, that international traffic is completely liberalised and that the activities are subject to competition between different international operators. The Thalys Lille-Brussels offer launched in April 2014 is part of a wider Lille-Amsterdam service via Brussels. As part of a global optimization of its offer, THI Factory recently decided to remove the stop in Lille from 2019. Travellers using the Lille-Brussels relationship via Thalys today will be able to refer to Eurostar's offers or SNCB's TGV Bruxelles-France, which now circulates 14 times a day from Brussels to Lille, and up to 18 times a day from Lille to Brussels, which will have no impact on their 35-minute journey time. On the other hand, I met yesterday the leaders of the Hauts-de-France region; they claim that the abolition of one of the trains in the return to Brussels to Lille is very embarrassing because this abolition concerns peak time, at the moment when one leaves the professional activities to enter Lille. For the Welsh working in Brussels, this is no problem in the morning. In the evening, if I held it correctly, there is a train at 4:00 p.m. and a few minutes; the next train is at 7:00 p.m. and a few minutes. In between, therefore, a train was removed. It allowed people working in Brussels to leave the office at 5 p.m. I therefore know that the Hauts-de-France Region will also question Thalys. In any case, we have brought up the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u76	Mr Minister, immediately after you took office, you started drafting new management contracts with SNCB and Infrabel. However, there is no white smoke yet, while the investment plans, which are an annex to the management contracts, have already been approved by the Council of Ministers. The current management contracts have been completed since 2013, although they have been renewed by royal decrees. When negotiating management contracts, we must also keep an eye on the European deadlines for liberalisation. I have the following questions, Minister. When did SNCB deliver its management contract proposal to you? What consultation is going on about this? What other substantive or technical issues is there to discuss? What further consultation is needed in order to be able to land? When do you plan to submit the management contract to the government for signature and when do you want it to enter into force? With regard to the management contract with Infrabel, I have similar questions, but I will of course not go over the various sub-questions, but I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u77	I will be quite complete, since Mr Cheron had also asked questions. Before clarifying the status of negotiations on SNCB-Infrabel management contracts, I think it would be useful to recall the steps already taken but which were essential before making management contracts. After the decision I made in June 2016 on the sharing of endowments between the two companies, the latter were able to start drawing up their draft business plan. In order to preserve the state of the network, the government was asked to comment on Infrabel's level of debt on March 31, 2017, allowing the infrastructure manager to approve its business plan and multi-year investment plan (MIP) on May 30, 2017. Following the conclusion in September 2017 of the multi-annual investment plan harmonisation exercise, which included, in particular, the billion euros of complementary financing that I obtained, SNCB was able, in turn, at the end of October 2017, to approve its updated business plan and multi-annual investment plan as well as its strategic investment plan. Finally, Infrabel approved its multi-year investment plan on December 18, 2017. During that whole time there were preliminary talks about a draft management contract of SNCB between my cabinet and the railway operator. That preliminary draft is currently being examined by the members of the majority. If a consensus is reached and the text is submitted to the Strategic Business Committee, the draft management contract will be officially delivered by the management of SNCB and submitted to Parliament. It will then be approved by the Board of Directors of SNCB and the Council of Ministers. Infrabel's management contract follows the same path. It is currently at the stage of preliminary talks. Work is progressing well. The draft management contract 2018-2022 will ensure that clearly identifiable, easily measurable and time-bound objectives are set in line with European regulations. This will be an important step towards the liberalisation of passenger transport and the possibility of entrusting the task of public service to the historic railway operator. As regards the management contract for Infrabel and the infrastructure fee, the work with Infrabel is constructive. The infrastructure fee formula will have to be adapted in December 2019 in order to comply with European requirements. This infrastructure charge is a good balance between a large enough amount than to bring commercial revenue to Infrabel in order to avoid its consolidation and at the same time, the infrastructure charge should not be a hindrance to the implementation of an attractive train offer. Today, the objective is always to present to the Council of Ministers simultaneously the management contracts of SNCB and Infrabel. However, as you pointed out, it is important to prepare the SNCB and, in particular, to define the evaluation criteria. Thus, if it were to appear that negotiations with Infrabel are holding back the whole process, I am prepared to finalize the SNCB contract and the elements common to both companies at first.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for that state of affairs. I understand the conversations are ongoing. However, as you say in your reply, we must also move forward with these two management contracts. The two companies need to be updated, also in order to comply with European rules. We are not concerned, but we do want progress to be made so that you can submit it quickly to the Council of Ministers. Can you specify a more precise timing for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u79	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u80	I have been asking a number of questions in recent years about the feasibility of a station in Haasrode. During a previous reply, you indicated that a study was under way in which SNCB examined the whole mobility issue in East Flanders-Brabant and specifically in the Leuven region. The study also examined the feasibility of a station in Haasrode and a reopening of the stations of Kumtich and Lovenjoel. In the meantime, I understand that there has been a negative opinion. SNCB considers that the supply of trains and stations in this region is currently in line with demand. It therefore has no plans to open or reopen stations. Specifically for Haasrode, the study indicates that the opening of a station would have a cannibalising effect on the use of other environmentally friendly means of transport such as bike. Nor would opening a new stop be financially feasible. However, I would like to point out that for many travellers in the Leuven region there is absolutely no shortage of trains and stations. In my view, there is a serious transport problem in the East Brabant region, to which SNCB cannot provide sufficient answers for the time being. I would therefore like to ask the following questions: Have you already informed the relevant municipalities of Leuven and Oud-Heverlee about insights around the station Haasrode? If so, when? What was their reaction? Is there any possibility of taking into account their explicit request for the establishment of the station? Secondly, I have only read parts of the opinion in the media for the time being. Is it possible to look at the entire study? What opinions does the study make, for example, on the reopening of stations Kumtich and Lovenjoel? Thirdly, what budgets are currently being provided for overall for the mobility issue in East Brabant?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u81	Ms Van Hoof, SNCB informed me that it had already communicated its decision on a possible station in Haasrode at the meeting of the Regionet Steering Committee on 16 February 2017. It was clearly stated there that the presentation was not divided. The city of Leuven is represented in the steering committee. The other municipalities are represented on the steering committee by Interleuven and recently a number of mayors participate directly, as determined by the Interleuven mayor's meeting. The study carried out concerned only Haasrode, which was also agreed with Regionet Leuven. The results and decisions of the investigation were also discussed on other occasions on the occasion of a meeting with the city of Leuven and during SNCB's road show on the Transport Plan in March 2017. SNCB does not plan its budgets for its Transport Plan by province or region. SNCB has launched another study to map traffic flows along the railway line to and from Leuven. It is intended to examine the extent to which SNCB can cope with these movements in East Brabant. For this purpose, several supply schedules will be assessed in terms of potential and financial and technical feasibility, as well as infrastructure capacity, budgetary impact, required train equipment and staff. The study does not specifically zoom in on Haasrode, but on the line 36 Leuven-Landen and its connection to the line 21 Landen-Hasselt as well as the line 35 Leuven-Hasselt. They are studied in their entirety. A number of questions that live in East Brabant come up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u82	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It was not very clear for Leuven in early 2017 whether the station of Haasrode was released. After all, this news has only recently appeared in the media. Leuven therefore continues to invest in the possibility of a station. For example, the city of Leuven has purchased a site to build the station in Haasrode. So there is the explicit will to create a station in Haasrode. I therefore hope that the new study could cover its implementation. In any case, it is not true that its construction would have a cannibalising effect on other modes of transport. After all, 90% of people who go to the industrial park in Haasrode take the car, although they come from 10 or 15 km away. These are distances that are more difficult to travel daily by bike. That is why there remains the explicit question of realising the station in Haasrode, albeit not now, because of the lack of financial resources, as I read, but hopefully at a later date. The city of Leuven will continue to insist on the realization of that station.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u83	Madam President, Minister, anyone who regularly leads to Hasselt knows that delays are daily. An anonymous engineer called the situation in a reportage of Pano a disaster. Infrabel would recognise the problems in Hasselt and would shortly plan to address the bottleneck, which leads to these delays. At least that was in Limburg's interest of 24 February. Mr. Secretary, is this coverage correct? Can you confirm that Infrabel will address the railway configuration in Hasselt station? When is the final decision for? When does Infrabel think he can start the works? How long will they last? Hasselt has a modern computer-controlled signal house. Yet the recording of a switch and then the greening of the signal today would take a little longer than before. Is this information correct? If so, what is the reason for this? Infrabel would like to eliminate the current bottleneck mainly by creating additional switches. In addition, a series of accompanying measures would be envisaged to relieve the burden on the line towards Limburg. What exactly are the measures in question? Finally, the delays at Hasselt station are therefore due to the railway configuration. The increase in freight traffic to and from Germany would also often exacerbate the situation. Is this true? Do you believe that the reactivation of the IJzeren Rijn will have a positive impact on both the flow of traffic in Hasselt and on part of the offer of passengers in Limburg?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u84	Madam President, Mr Infrabel informs me that it has examined the Hasselt railway configuration with a view to improving the flow of rail traffic. The objective is to optimise the current state without having to reverse the entire current track configuration. The project is in the study phase. It is too early to talk about concrete planning. Thanks to the concentration of the signal houses in Hasselt, with at the base a complete renewal of the signalling devices in the spacious area of Hasselt, Infrabel is now able to make various improvements. For example, parallel travel routes have recently been made possible in the zone you describe as a bottleneck. Infrabel also prepares the construction of an additional section, which benefits the flow of traffic in the bottleneck. The project to optimise the rail configuration provides for the elimination of a number of switches and the addition of a number of switches. The final balance is that the total number of switches decreases. Hasselt is a station with several intersecting movements, including the main axis of freight traffic, which crosses the station, from line 35, Aarschot, to line 34, Tongeren and Liège, and vice versa. The freight trains that follow their path do not cause any inconvenience to the planned train service. It is possible that the train may have to wait at the junction level, for example due to an earlier delay. One problem is indeed the transit of some freight trains that run outside their assigned lane. To remedy this, no additional freight trains on individual journeys are allowed in real time during the weekdays between 06.30 and 08.00 hours. As a result, the trains that are offered with a delay of more than 6 minutes or for their hours will be refused between 05:30 and 07:30. Reactivation of the Iron Rhine would have a positive impact on train traffic in Hasselt, as the number of freight trains would be expected to decrease.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u85	Minister, I have misunderstood you and I would like to ask you again. Isn't the message in The Importance of Limburg, according to which the configuration is modified, correct? I understand that there is research into how this can change for the better, without automatically adjusting the configuration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u86	I'll check, it's not in the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u87	Questions Nos 23876 and 23878 are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u88	Minister, there are many questions about your willingness to develop a rail link between Namur and Paris. I am thinking above all of the Walloon travelers who have still not recovered from the unjustified suppression of the Thalys Walloon. It must be said that it is very difficult to understand the consistency of your policy in this matter. Under the previous legislature, Wallonia was not isolated from Paris as it is today. In addition, the Thalys was the delight of many citizens, especially the people of my region - Mons-Borinage - whom this high-speed train was only 1:15 a.m. a.m. from Paris on a daily basis. None of the reasons put forward convinced me. The actors on the ground whom I was able to consult confirmed that this was essentially a political decision. Today, you are trying to make up for this by embarking on studies for the launch of a Paris-Namur link that seems unbelievable to me. The press has made extensive reference to French reluctance to participate in this project, which could not be realized for at least several years. In addition, doubts about the technical feasibility of such a link are highlighted. In this context, it is clear that the restoration of the Thalys Wallon is the most credible solution to rapidly connect much of Wallonia to Paris. So, Minister, when are you going to find common sense on this issue? Will you finally deploy all your forces to restore the Thalys Walloon?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u89	Mr Minister, we do not understand very well the direction that the wind is taking: first the Thalys Wallon is removed, then you mention your desire to create a direct railway line between Wallonia and the French capital. It would start from Namur to Charleroi and Maubeuge, before continuing to Paris. However, budgetary restrictions on the French side would quickly have put a brake on this project. A study would also be under way to verify the technical feasibility of the connection. For the Walloons, this line would mean the return of a direct link to the French capital. For Northern French, this would represent direct access to Charleroi airport and indirectly to Brussels via Namur. Like my colleague Thiébaut, I would like to know whether your intention is to really restore a Thalys on the Walloon dorsal. Is this project currently under consideration? If not, what is the solution you are examining and considering? What will be the budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u90	Minister, three years ago Minister Galant announced the temporary suspension of the Thalys Wallon. For the last three years, I've been asking you about this. As if that was not enough, my colleagues Thiébaut and Grovonius are coming up to show you how much we really care, everywhere in Wallonia, about what is happening. I told Mrs. Galant. Your temporary suspension looks furiously like a definitive stop. I have been sworn by all the gods that this was not true but, since then, we have not seen anything new. Ms. Galant had identified technical problems and the duration of the repairs. Three years have passed. Technical problems should be resolved. Wallonia should once again benefit from this service, which enables its economic, cultural development and which is also an ecological response to the problem of congestion in our big cities. In addition, the Charleroi-Namur-Mons direct connection to Paris has been stopped. Liège is still connected to Paris by the Paris-Liège-Dortmund line. Today, three hours are needed to reach Paris by train from Charleroi, while it takes much less to travel the Antwerp-Paris route. Last year, I asked you about it. You told me that SNCB was studying various service options from the Walloon cities to Paris, namely Namur-Charleroi-Erquelinnes-Maubuge-Paris and Namur-Charleroi-Mons-Quévy-Aulnoy-Paris. Minister, can you give us more details about these different rail link projects? What would be the cost of commissioning these links? Do you have a report from SNCB on this subject? Do you maintain that this removal of the Thalys Wallon is temporary or are you going to tell us today that it is final and that you have classified the Thalys Wallon as dead international transport?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u91	Colleagues, I hear a lot about the reactivation of the Thalys Wallon. Everyone gets involved but few really know all the aspects of the case. I would remind you that the Thalys Wallon was a train running at the speed of a classic train on the Walloon dorsal, unlike the Thalys which carries out the Liège-Brussels relationship. For information, the journey time of the Thalys from Liège to Paris via Brussels is from 02h12 to 02h29, depending on the time and direction, whereas it was from 03h02 to 03h13, depending on the time and direction via the Walloon dorsal. That was the reality. Thalys operated a service between Paris and the major stations of the Walloon dorsal between the 1990s and the spring of 2015, as part of a so-called conventional operation. During this period, a new ETCS train control system was gradually introduced in Belgium. It operates by means of track beacons and a computer system housed in the train control station. These systems must be compatible. In 2015, the installation by Infrabel of the ground control system for control of ETCS trains on the North Mediterranean Sea freight corridor, which crosses the Walloon dorsal at Namur, was identified as not compatible with the version on board the Thalys. As a result, there are many technical constraints related to the safety of Thalys traffic on the dorsal. I am not one of those who value safety only a few weeks after the accident. For me, it's a permanent attention. It is because of these constraints that, during the work on the weekend of 1 May 2017 in the Nord-Midi junction, the Thalys connecting Germany to Paris had been diverted via Brussels, although one option might have been to circulate them by Namur. I also recall, since this is clearly still necessary, that Thalys became on 1 April 2016 an autonomous railway undertaking which decides its own offer. I insist on that point. We're no longer in the contracted service. In terms of governance, it is also an important point, I believe. If all these questions were resolved, the question of finance would arise. The return to service of the Thalys Wallon on the Walloon dorsal would cost about €7 million per year. Since, for the reasons mentioned above, a service is not possible to date, I have wished to exploit the financial resources thus recovered to strengthen the domestic supply on the Walloon network. With its 2017 transport plan, SNCB increased its offer by 5.1%. If we want to make Thalys Walloon a priority, choices will have to be made on Walloon domestic supply and this will certainly have an impact on the provision of services. Indeed, the cost of restarting the Thalys Wallon should be offset by the abandonment of other internal projects on the Walloon service. As soon as I took office, I multiplied the initiatives and contacts aimed at revitalising cross-border transport via conventional high-speed lines. In July 2016, I informed the French authorities and SNCF of my willingness to study the revival of rail traffic for passengers on the Namur-Charleroi-Maubeuge and Brussels Airport-Mons-Quévy-Aulnoye routes. My approach clearly aims to offer a product that is competitive with respect to the individual car, the car shared or the international bus connections (Eurolines, Ouibus, Flixbus), to capture French customers by offering them connections in the morning to Belgium and in the evening to France, and to offer an interesting pricing for travellers. The aim is to encourage a modal shift to the train for cross-border travel, whether it is home-to-work, home-to-school or leisure. In the proposal currently under consideration, it is a rail link to Paris at normal speed, but at a price significantly below the cost of Thalys, for everyone. This offer would also be more flexible as advance reservations should no longer be made. These classic train connections, albeit a little slower but also less expensive than high-speed connections, will offer a real opportunity for Walloon and French cities to be connected by serving four times as many stations as during the Thalys Walloon. These trains should also allow many connections in Aulnoye to cities such as Charleville-Mézières, which are currently almost inaccessible by train from Belgium. On the French side, this type of train would also open up the Hauts-de-France region to Belgium with a railway border point next to the services via Lille. Necessary contacts were therefore made with the French authorities: the French Minister of Transport, Élisabeth Borne, the President of the Conseil régional des Hauts-de-France, Xavier Bertrand, the mayors of Maubeuge, Aulnoye, Saint-Quentin and Compiègne, SNCB and SNCF to make every effort to put these relations into service at the end of 2018, beginning of 2019. I personally chair the technical working groups and potential study groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u92	Minister, I have no doubt about your good faith, but I have other information. You explain to me that the Thalys can no longer circulate on a conventional line for security reasons, whereas before it did, and whereas today we have technical devices, namely the ETCS which is installed on a majority of our lines. Now we're more secure, there are more means of control than before, but before, the Thalys could pass, and now he can't. This is very strange, especially since you are still aware that there is in France a low cost company of Thalys, which is called IZY and which offers trips to France on conventional routes limited to 160 km/h. What we are asking is simply to restore what was before, that is, a Thalys in the morning that crosses Wallonia to Paris and returns in the evening. You seem to tell us it's something incredible. As for Liège's argument, if I live in Liège, I will not take the Thalys to go to Namur on a classic path. I will take Liège-Brussels-Paris, of course! What to consider is a Thalys who no longer leaves Liège, but from Namur (Namur-Charleroi-Mons-Paris). You say taking the Thalys Wallon from Liège to Paris was much slower than Brussels. But I agree! The mistake was to leave Liège, to cross Wallonia at low speed to Namur instead of passing through Brussels and the high-speed lines. That is the logic. The arguments on security do not hold because in France they do. You're telling us that it would take seven million to restore this Thalys Wallon and you're talking about profitability. I can tell you, myself, for borrowing very regularly - at least thirty times - the Thalys Walloon in Mons, that every time I took it, it was filled. It wasn't an empty Thalys. On the other hand, the Thalys that was empty was the one from Ostend. Everyone knows it was a ghost Thalys. Since this ghost Thalys had to be removed, it was also necessary to remove another Thalys on the other side of the linguistic border. That was not economically justified. You are talking about seven million and you are talking about alternative solutions that would be cheaper. You know how to give us the figure of seven million but you can't give us the figure of the alternative. You don't know how much it's going to cost. You don't give the numbers! Finally, are we talking about seven million with one million or are we talking about seven million with six million next door? There's something wrong here too. You are telling us about the possibilities of connecting Wallonia to Charleville-Mézières. This is of interest to all Walloons! Go to Charleville-Mézières, everyone dreams of it! Of course!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u93	We must conclude, Mr. Thiébaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u94	I have been talking about this for seven years with answers that are not convincing. If I talk about it for two or three minutes, it's not that bad! Minister, I will insist again and I will also question the CEO of Thalys because there are things that are not right. It's not credible. You're also a minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u95	Yes, but not from a private company!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u96	It's not private. It's still SNCB and SNCF. We mustn't exaggerate. If you are now searching for Thalys on the Internet, you will see that it is a company owned by SNCF and SNCB. It's not a private company yet!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u97	Minister, time has given us reason. Mrs. Galant lied to us. Three years later, the idea of truth cannot be lost: since it was necessary to remove the ghost Thalys from Ostend, Wallonia had to pay! On the other hand, it is not difficult to maintain a deficit in lines linking Brussels to Flanders and Flanders to the Netherlands, as if a euro in Wallonia was not worth a euro in Flanders. We will show you this in the coming week! I know you don't have any worries, but we have a fight to fight. Stop telling me Thalys is a private company. When you invest at Binche station, thank you. You are the minister responsible, you are responsible for the decisions that are taken. There is SNCB, which is well represented, where governments appoint representatives, agents on the board of directors. Is the SNCB totally foreign to us? Is that why we talk about it every week? Until I am told that SNCB and Infrabel are not Belgian, I still believe that we have our say. Besides, you're chairing all these groups!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u98	Can we close the debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u99	I would like to take a little height and, as Mr Tiébaut said, we are talking here about Wallonia and Paris. We're not talking about Aulnoye, Rochefort or Charleville-Mézières. If the inhabitants of Rochefort like to go to Charleville-Mézières, good for them! The concern of the Walloons (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u100	Take a little height, Mr Devin!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u101	That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u102	Mr Devin, you are closing and I ask the minister not to start the debate again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u103	That's what I'm saying. I'd like to close because we're going to talk about it again. Charleville-Mézières is not our trip. We want to link Wallonia to Paris. It is a political will that we need today. We can discuss technology constantly, we need political will. This is the one I ask you to have, again, as before, to connect Wallonia with the capital of the French Republic.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u104	Minister, I would like to speak with you about the possibility of travelling by train with a bicycle to Eupen, for example from Ostend. In the eastern cantons, cycling is one of the main attractions of tourism, thanks in particular to infrastructure such as the RAVeL and other bike routes. The Ostbelgian government is also considering the establishment of a bicycle route linking the Eupen railway station with the RAVel to Raeren and the Eupen dam, in order to attract new tourists from the centre of the country. It is obviously a good idea if the conditions for access of the bike on the train to Eupen are guaranteed. However, according to my information, the trains to Eupen are currently not equipped with a location for a trip with a bicycle. It would therefore be interesting to consider setting up a wagon for bicycles. Minister, what are currently the possibilities of travel for the tourist wishing to travel by train to Eupen with a normal bike? Once the Eupen station is connected to the said bicycle routes, would it be possible to equip trains to Eupen with wagons for the carriage of bicycles? Has such a request already been addressed to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u105	Madam President, Mrs Jadin, the SNCB tells me that it is currently finalizing its train-bike strategy and that it will soon communicate on this subject. The Eupen train station is served every hour by the IC Ostend-Eupen connection provided with I11 equipment which allows the transport of up to two bicycles in the luggage van. In the course of 2019, the SNCB plans to gradually replace the I11 cars of the IC Ostend-Eupen relationship with M7 cars with double-storey cars. These trains will include a car for storing 14 bicycles. I had already been made aware of the problem of the transport of bicycles on board trains by the Minister-President of the German-speaking Community, Mr Olivier Paasch.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u106	Minister, thank you. I just want to reiterate my question and encourage you, as far as you can, to really think about an increase of even more than 14 bikes and the creation of special bike locations. I cordially invite you to come to my region. You will see that such a provision is of great interest in promoting both the use of the Eupen station and regional development.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u107	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van den Bergh converted 23965 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u108	Minister, as you know, at the beginning of the year there are many carnival processions in our country and especially in my region. Hundreds of decorated tanks can be seen, often drawn by a tractor. However, this year, there was uncertainty in the ranks of the organizers but also on the police side because of a publication by Centrex in early January indicating that the G permit would not be valid for the driving of a carnival tank since the said permit would be intended solely for the driving of vehicles in the course of agricultural or forestry activities. On the other hand, licence holders B, BE, Cl, ClE, C and CE are allowed to drive folk vehicles on the basis of the maximum permissible mass of the set, whereas these drivers certainly have less experience in practice than a G licence holder. In one of your responses in committee at the end of January, however, you suggested that the G licence would be sufficient to drive a tractor and a tank as part of a folk activity. This response has somewhat relieved the organizers but not necessarily the police. The latter still questions the question of legal certainty in the event of the involvement of a carnival tank in a road accident. Indeed, the interpretation of the legislation on this subject is contradictory. Minister, have you ever had any contact with police officials on this matter? Would it not be possible to adapt the legislation in order to clarify the situation in favour of the driver of a folk vehicle with a G licence, as you had already indicated in your reply at the time?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u109	Dear colleague, the issue of folk vehicles was discussed at a meeting between the Mobility and Centrex FPS, which appears to have been misunderstanding. Indeed, the rules governing the driving of folk vehicles are very clear. Article 20 (4) of the Royal Decree of 23 March 1998 on driving permits provides that "for the driving of motor vehicles and their trailers exclusively intended for folk demonstrations which go only exceptionally on the public road, either on the occasion of folk events authorized by the municipality, or on the way to or from there, or for tests for such events, the valid driving licence for category B or G is sufficient, irrespective of the mass of the vehicle and the number of seats and provided that it does not exceed the speed of 25 km per hour". This article allows certain types of vehicles to be driven with a G permit, either at the place of the demonstration, or to join it, or to leave it, or for training. In addition to this provision, account must also be taken of the general exemption from driving licences for slow-moving vehicles set out in Article 4 (10) of the same Decree which applies to drivers born before 1 October 1982. There are therefore two possible measures. Prior to 1982, there were no permits, and then it was either the B or the G.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u110	That will clarify the matter, minister. It's very important in my area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u111	Mr Minister, in the context of cross-border mobility between Belgium and Luxembourg, I have heard that many problems of connections and infrastructure arise daily for commuters. Indeed, it seems that the Walloon dorsal encounters difficulties concerning several links, including those between Arlon and Luxembourg, as well as that between Liège and Gouvy. It also came back that some cars would be in very poor condition. Every day, however, almost 40 000 workers living in Belgium travel to Luxembourg. My questions are as follows. Can we say that the Walloon dorsal is in poor condition? What about the current transportation plan? Can we be satisfied with its application? What is planned to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u112	Dear colleague, SNCB and Infrabel provide me with the following information. Infrastructure: connections to Luxembourg from Belgium are made to Gouvy, on line 42 and to Arlon, on line 162. Line 42 is in good condition; there is no temporary slowdown notice currently on this line. The catenary was placed in 2000 and the signage was also renewed. Line 162 is being renovated. The Arlon-Luxembourg section has been completely renewed on catenary tracks, signs and works of art over the last five years. It is planned to change the power supply from 3000 volts to 25,000 volts in the coming years. In conclusion, there are currently no infrastructure problems on the Belgian-Luxembourg routes. As for the rail offer, before December 2017, the punctuality of the Brussels-Luxembourg axis was a problem due to the various construction sites under way. These projects linked to the modernisation of the 162 Namur-Luxembourg border line and involving single-track services have had a significant impact on journey times, and have involved a break in the correspondence in Marloie between trains coming from Liège via line 43, the latter being largely single-track, and the ICs Arlon-Luxembourg. The first assessment of the new transport plan 2017-2020 is positive. This did not reveal a major problem. The offer will have to be adapted in the light of developments in the modernisation of the line between Namur and Luxembourg. The change to 25 000 volts between Luxembourg and Arlon in September 2018 will have a significant impact on rolling stock, which will temporarily put the fleet under pressure until the arrival of the M7s at SNCB. With regard to cross-border relations to Luxembourg, there has been no decline in supply. Problems with the certification of Luxembourg rolling stock on the Belgian network - the Dosto cars - have a temporary impact on the supply, particularly on the advanced trains of the Luxembourg railways serving Gouvy. These are temporarily replaced by buses between Gouvy and Trois-Vierges, until early April 2018. In this context, Luxembourg equipment will be able to circulate again in Belgium. The basic offer IC 33 Liers-Liège-Gouvy-Luxembourg is not affected by these problems. Temporary adjustments without a reduction in supply were also made between Arlon and Luxembourg as a result of the problems of the same Dosto cars. The normal situation will be restored in early April. Athus's service was not affected by the problem of Dosto cars.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u113	That reassures me. I thank the Minister for this very comprehensive response.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u114	Mr Minister, at the end of last year, the RVA found that for years too high benefits had been paid to railway workers. This was a compensatory allowance for the staff of SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail working in a four-fifth regime. That allowance had to be calculated on the basis of a 38-hour working week. For many years, however, the railway companies misjudged a 40-hour working week for the calculation. According to your colleague Peeters, the responsibility for this lies with HR Rail, which for years reported a wrong breach of employment when submitting applications for career breaks. In the meantime, the railway companies have established themselves as a rule. In fact, workers working in the fifth-year career break scheme will now be working 30.40 hours a week instead of 32 hours and will receive a wage equivalent to 80% of a full-time employee. What measures have the railway companies taken to prevent such mistakes in the future? What amount was overpaid? During what period did that happen? Will HR Rail have to repay that amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u115	HR Rail informs me that since 1 January 2018, all career breaks general scheme, end-of-life, parental leave, leave to care for a severely ill family or family member and palliative leave must comply with the new conditions, i.e. the introduction of a 20% reduction in working time as well as a 80% remuneration of a full-time employee. The rules apply to all new career breaks, extensions and ongoing career breaks. Last year HR Rail paid a remuneration of 84,21 % to staff who performed 32 hours a week. However, this was contrary to the conditions of career interruption, whereby only 80% of the remuneration of a full-time employee may be received in order to receive a benefit from the RVA. This had to be adjusted to 80 % pay as well as 80 % working time. HR Rail must not repay the benefits of the RVA.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u116	Thank you very much for the answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u117	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 24268, by Mr 24348, by Mr de la Malène Question No 24485, No 24509 24486 and 24487, all of Mr Van den Bergh, are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u118	Madam President, Minister, last year, on the occasion of IDAHOT, the International Day Against Holebifobie and Transphobia, the rainbow flag was lifted in several SNCB stations. The Central Station was also nicely lit. With Trainbow, SNCB, HR Rail and Infrabel also have a recognised association within çavaria, with which they play a leading role. It is crucial that the railways take this lead even more actively, we think. Mr Minister, on 17 May this year, by analogy with the vast majority of Belgian municipalities, will all Belgian stations lift the rainbow flag? In the week around IDAHOT is adapted lighting planned again, in order to highlight the fight against hole biphobia and transphobia at night? If so, which stations will be equipped with them? Do SNCB, HR Rail and Infrabel plan any additional actions in response to IDAHOT? Do SNCB, HR Rail and Infrabel have an internal diversity plan with particular attention to LGBTs? Finally, is Trainbow a structural and recognised partner within SNCB, HR Rail and Infrabel in developing diversity policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the CEOs of SNCB and Infrabel and the Managing Director of HR Rail have signed a diversity charter and a joint declaration of diversity, in which they wish to convey a message of admissibility, openness and commitment for the benefit of diversity and the inherent inclusion within the Belgian railways. It promises to ban any unfair discrimination based on gender, gender and sexual orientation, among other things. The practical implementation of this is carried out through working groups, where LGBT, lesbians, homosexuals, bisexuals and transgenders, is one of the main themes. The association Trainbow has indeed been recognised as an organisation within the framework of HR Rail's diversity policy and can act as an information channel and sounding board. As regards SNCB in particular, respect and cooperation are among the four business values of SNCB. SNCB attaches great importance to diversity and has already undertaken a large number of concrete actions. SNCB wants to continue this very much in 2018. She believes in the richness of diversity and has therefore incorporated it into her corporate culture and into the HR policy she conducts. In addition, SNCB has decided to set up a corporate culture and value cell with its HR services. This cell will be responsible for the development of a diversity policy in line with the cultural transformation of SNCB. Like last year, SNCB is prepared to respond to requests for rainbow flags to be lifted at the stations. This also applies to adapted lighting at stations where this is possible, namely at the stations of Brussels-Central and Tournai. Regarding specifically Infrabel, Infrabel lets me know that the integration of LGBT employees and the focus on diversity themes are part of his daily policy. Infrabel actively supports the Trainbow organisation in its participation in the Belgian Pride on 19 May 2018. The internal social network Yammer also has a group of Diversity, where employees can freely share their questions, comments and experiences about diversity. In addition, Infrabel, SNCB and HR Rail will organise an open work on 18 October 2018. The aim of such an initiative is to bring together LGBT networks of different companies. They support each other and advise each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u120	Mr. Secretary, congratulations! I think that the railways are doing very well. I believe that a number of other public companies can take an example. Thank you very much for your intel.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u121	At the beginning of this year, Minister, the results of the international study on possible routes of the Iron Rhine became known. The study showed that the 3RX route, the so-called third way, via Venlo is the most feasible option. Last week, Flanders and the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia announced at a press conference that they fully support this 3RX route. The intention was to start a political three-country consultation where the federal government, the Netherlands and the German Federal Government would be present. Up to now, there has been talk mainly at technical and administrative level. Political consultations should then include the precise route, financing, licences, procedures and so on. The possibility of financing by the European Union will also be examined. I have one specific question on that. At the beginning of this year, you stated in another answer to one of my questions that the federal level is taking responsibility for the Iron Rhine case. Does this mean that you will actively and constructively contribute to the establishment of the three-country dialogue? Will you also encourage the FPS Mobility to do this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u122	Now that the feasibility study on the so-called third road has been completed at the end of 2017, Flanders, as initiator of the study, announced that it would address the research report at the political level in order to make progress in improving the rail link between the North Sea ports and the Rhine-Ruhr region. As you know, the electrification of part of this line on Belgian territory, in particular the railway line between Mol and Hamant-Achel, is included in the list of Flemish projects for which funding is provided in the Flemish envelope of EUR 100 million for rail investment. As a cabinet, we have limited resources and we will have to organise the work according to a specific method. Once there is an agreement between the Federal State and the Flemish Region on the cooperation agreement to be implemented on the implementation of priority rail projects benefiting from additional funding from the Flemish Region, the intra-Belgian consultation on the follow-up of the study on the third road, as agreed, will continue at political and administrative level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u123	Thank you, Minister. I therefore conclude that after the conclusion of the cooperation agreement in the context of electrification of a section of line 19, you will then start the intra-Belgian consultation. So first there is that intra-Belgian consultation, you are not committed to it today...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u124	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u125	Mr Minister, I conclude that after the conclusion of the cooperation agreement you will start the intra-Belgian consultations and that you will not support the political three-country consultations that Flanders is asking for. That's my conclusion, unless I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic852x.u126	The incident is closed.
