ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, since I chair this meeting, allow me to ask my question from my bench. This first question concerns the permissible thresholds for endocrine disruptors in consumer products. It is part of a series of very old questions, but events have meant that we have not had the opportunity to organize question-and-answer sessions. Minister, in the positionings of AFSCA and at European level, there is talk of low levels of substance presence, including endocrine disruptors in foods tested to explain their non-risk or non-toxicity. However, one of the characteristics of endocrine disruptors is that their effects are sometimes greater at low rates than at higher rates. The concept of power is excluded from the criteria. On the other hand, there is rarely a single endocrine disruptor present in consumer products and the so-called "cocktail" effects are also not taken into account, both at Belgian and European level. Often, these endocrine disruptors are present in "nanoparticle" structures, which also has an influence on penetration and diffusion rates in the body and substances are also regularly used for purposes other than those intended. Mr Minister, how does Belgium position itself and where do we stand with regard to the integration of "power" effects rather than simply the concentration of levels of presence of these substances? Should we not move towards zero tolerance in view of all the elements I have just described? So, work on the presence without threshold, the presence in "cocktail", the associated presences, as well as the presence of nanoparticles? How can we act to prevent and control the use of chemicals for purposes other than those intended?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u2	Madam President, the endocrine disruptors are raising legitimate questions and, in that sense, I note the importance of your question. We must pay particular attention to this. I agree with you from the outset on an extremely important element highlighted in your question: A threshold below which exposure would not involve any risk is in fact strongly questioned. The authorities' attention to endocrine disruptors is already reflected in the facts. Thus, the concept of power has not been included among the criteria for the identification of an endocrine disruptor in the framework of legislation with regard to biocidal and plant protection products. A zero exposure, it seems to me, is the preferred approach for substances identified as endocrine disruptors. Recall that Belgium voted on 13 December 2017 in favour of the European Commission's proposal defining the criteria for the identification of endocrine disruptors in the framework of plant protection product legislation. Following the adoption of this text, since a plant protection product is identified by EFSA (the European Food Safety Authority) as an endocrine disruptor, we will continue to adopt an offensive position - the word is not used lightly - and to support the withdrawal of these products. It was in this spirit that I wanted to ask the Scientific Committee of the AFSCA, several weeks ago, to study the potential harmfulness of the different forms of bisphenol and their alternatives. This is a subject on which I expect answers quickly and in view of the legislation in force, it seems to me to be an important aspect of the case. I think you'll join me in this assessment. The Pesticides Regulation at European level provides for an MRL (maximum residue limit) equivalent to the detection limit for substances considered as endocrine disruptors. We must remain vigilant with regard to this issue. The combined exposure is a point where a response is needed at European level. It is also mentioned in the Seventh Environmental Action Programme (EAP). Everyone must be assured of this: the Belgian Government will be careful to ensure that this concern is taken up again by the Strategy for a Non-toxic Environment, which is expected this year. Belgium is closely following the issue of nanoparticles, although there is currently no substance in our country that is considered to be an endocrine disruptor used in the form of nanoparticles in our plant protection products. Our country is even ahead in this area, in comparison with many European countries but also with the European authorities. We have a register of manufactured substances on the Belgian market, whether as such or in mixtures. The tool is important because it complements databases of hazards and authorised uses at European and national level. The identification of the hazards to be sought, the matrices to be sampled and the sectors concerned by the issues you have mentioned shall be carried out, inter alia, on the basis of the opinions of the Scientific Committee of the AFSCA, on the basis of contacts with the competent authorities of the other Member States, the results of the checks of previous years, the recommendations of the European Commission or the scientific literature which is increasingly interested in this issue. In addition to the current AFSCA control program, of course, the Agency's inspectors still have the opportunity to carry out targeted sampling and order analyses. That, Madam President, is the answer that I wanted to give you on this issue. Be assured of my willingness to be particularly offensive and to be as forward-thinking as possible at European level, as decisions must continue to be taken in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answers to the various elements of my question. I am pleased to hear your concerns, namely to aim for zero tolerance and to take into account cocktail effects and the nanoparticle dimension. Unfortunately, the scope even exceeds the competencies of the AFSCA for all these products and substances. The government as a whole must therefore be aware of the need for vigilance. Thank you, Minister, for the follow-up on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u4	Minister, as it is a little out of date, I will sum up my question, which concerns the accountability of companies for the impact of their activities on food quality and safety. My question relates to Directive 2014/95, which requires companies to provide non-financial information in their annual accounts. These include information on the impact of their activities and production on human rights, as well as on the social and environmental impacts of their activities. I had tabled this question following the fipronil case, since it concerns the consequences that the activities of the companies may have and that they have had, in this case, on a wide range of environmental, social and health dimensions. The obligation imposed by the Directive is an obligation of due diligence, which requires companies to take the initiative to avoid any impact. I know that the provisions of this directive have been incorporated into our legislation, however, in the case of fipronil, it was a particularly precise application of this desire to require companies to comply with this due diligence. Do you, in relation to this, have any particular elements to give us in your skills?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u5	I agree with you on the conclusions you draw in relation to a number of important problems we have encountered in the food chain. Food security must remain one of our priorities, meet our objectives and meet the norm. It's a legal obligation. That is true, as you say, and I said it on the occasion of the fraud in fipronil and then the fraud of the Veviba company: we must have no scruples with those who cheat. For this reason, the Belgian State became a civil party, both for the perpetrators of fipronil fraud and for the fraud of the Veviba company. These companies are a minority, it is a marginal phenomenon, but in relation to that they play with our rules, with the health of the consumer and they produce collateral victims of these frauds, which are our producers, our farmers and our farmers. With regard to them, we must have no scruples. Crises such as the Veviba crisis clearly involve consequences for the sector. As part of my responsibilities, I will consult with the sector. The situation should also be improved through consultation. The responsibility of companies in this context, in order to answer your question, is also to agree on some new measures that we are preparing with the working groups that I have taken the initiative in the wake of the Veviba crisis. I am thinking in particular of the labour sector, of chain consultation and of large-scale distribution. From my point of view, their responsibility lies there. Our task is to continue to step up controls and to make them more stringent, in parallel with the measures that will emerge from the working groups. That is why I asked, during the budgetary conclave, for the means to strengthen controls in the meat sector, to the tune of EUR 2 million; 1.3 million will be spent on strengthened controls throughout the sector. These controls have already begun. The rest will be devoted to additional commitments. The responsibility of companies lies within the framework of concerted action, where we ask them to make progress. At the same time, our responsibility is to enforce the rules and ensure that what happens in household refrigerators and plates is consistent. It is a shared responsibility. I believe that the audits I have requested in this framework, which are beginning to be carried out and whose results are expected during the summer, will enable us to carry out our responsibilities in this area even more. We already have a good agency at European level. It is a question of giving us the opportunity, through future reforms, to further improve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u6	Minister, we will still have an opportunity to continue our discussions on the issue of responsibilities. In any case, it is important that this concept of due diligence be well integrated by the various economic actors in all sectors of activity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u7	Minister, this issue also dates from August 2017. It therefore relates to the individualised social integration project (PIIS) and its beneficiaries. My question was the result of a meeting and requests made by associations dealing with illiterate people, including "Read and Write". Your predecessor, Minister Willy Borsus, had received their representatives. The latter wanted to highlight the difficulty, when illiterate, of properly understanding the content of the document through which one undertakes to respect a whole series of constraints and obligations. In doing so, these people find themselves in a particularly difficult and complex situation, knowing that possible non-compliance with the ISIP is not necessarily based on a bad will on their part, but rather due to their situation and structural causes that make them unable to read or write. They therefore called for adaptations and for taking into account the difficulties encountered by those concerned. Minister, could you provide me with information on how to follow up on this issue and how to take account of the situation of these people?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u8	Mrs Gerkens, I fully agree with you. It is indeed important that this type of difficulty can be taken into account in the framework of ISIP. In practice, that is already the case. The aim of the ISIP reform is to support the social and professional integration of beneficiaries of integration income, to empower them and, above all, to support them. The support granted must therefore be subject to conditions that bind both parties and involve both mutual obligations and commitments. The objective of accompanying this individualised follow-up is to take measures which are defined in consultation so that the beneficiaries of the CPAS gradually become more autonomous, so that they can participate fully in life in society. The SIIP shall take into account the specific circumstances relating to the situation of any individual concerned. It is prepared by the social worker in charge of the applicant's file, in consultation with the applicant. In other words, the social worker must also ensure that the person concerned understands the ins and outs of the SIIP. He informs him about the content, scope and consequences of ISIP, before it is signed. In addition, the person concerned may always be assisted by the person of his or her choice. This is an important aspect. Moreover, there is nothing to prevent the pre-reading of the PIIS project with a third party. Finally, the fact that a person does not understand, for linguistic reasons or for reasons related to illiteracy, what is expected of him/her in the context of an ISIP is a reason to postpone the conclusion of ISIP today. CPAS independently evaluates the reasons for equity. A brochure containing users' rights will be available shortly. PIIS is an opportunity for illiterate people. For this type of case, it may include literacy training. The purpose of your question can be met within the framework of the ISIP, which is intended to contribute to the solution, with policies falling under other powers. The mechanism that is put in place here is neither meritocratic nor guilty. On the contrary, I think that he is an emancipator and that he can give the beneficiary new prospects of life, because it is above all an accompaniment according to the difficulties specific to the person concerned. You are taking up the heavy task of social workers in the framework of the ISIP. We are paying attention to this aspect. For example, a special additional grant of 10% of the amount of integration income granted has been provided to cover accompanying and activation costs. The resources made available to CPAS in the context of participation in social activities can be mobilised to support literacy-related initiatives. As a reminder, the reform launched in early 2017 has made it possible to allocate almost 16 million euros between the various CPAS in order to make possible social participation and the fight against isolation, thanks to these grants of particular projects. The financial support we provide to CPAS allows them to have more resources to deal with these sometimes heavy issues. A whole series of tools are already being developed. Mrs Gerkens, this is important, and I wish, following your question, to make a commitment. I hope that the evaluation of ISIP – which is planned, as you know, in 2019 – will also focus on the difficulties that could be experienced by certain target groups. I think people who are illiterate are part of it. I will ask, in the context of the ISIP assessment, that the issue be dealt with from this point of view as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answer. I had indeed planned to ask you, in my reply, for these people to be taken into account in the assessment of what has been put in place and the difficulties encountered, which might require other approaches.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u10	Minister, the non-profit organisation Climaxi, a movement for climate and social justice, discovered that a particular chain of meat products with the long-standing banned sulphite are for sale. Sulphite is a harmful preservative that breaks down vitamins in the diet. The use in meat was banned because the customer no longer sees the state in which the meat is real because of sulphite. In a number of local supermarkets, the non-profit association saw sulphite on the labels of Americain. The sulphite was also effective in the meat products, which was confirmed by the spokesperson of the retail chain. The explanation was that sulphite was used in the preparation of an ingredient of the americain, especially mayonnaise. In mayonnaise, the use of sulphite is not prohibited and, according to European legislation, a prohibited product is permitted in certain foods where it is not prohibited in an ingredient. Firstly, is it true that European legislation does allow this? As Minister of Agriculture, do you not think that is an absurd situation? Secondly, will you do something about this, either within a European framework or at federal level in cooperation with the regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u11	Mrs Dedry, the use of sulphites in mayonnaise and meat products and their preparations is prohibited in the European Union. However, at the request of some Member States, limited authorisations have been granted by European authorities in certain countries for very specific products such as traditional meat preparations. The Belgian government has always been reluctant to do so. I also attach great importance to the ban for two reasons. Firstly, the ban is important for health reasons. Secondly, I think it is essential that consumers are properly informed about the products they buy. You're referring to the carry-over principle. It is true that when sulphite has been legally used in a food, that food may therefore be used as an ingredient in other foods. This is also the case for foods where direct use of sulphite is prohibited, provided that the conditions of use of the additive are respected. The maximum level shall be set at European level. In the case of sulphite in meat products, only small quantities can legally enter meat preparations on the basis of the carry-over principle. Moreover, for certain additives and certain food categories, such as colours, the carry-over principle is prohibited. In 2016, the Authority published a re-evaluation of the sulphites group. It established a temporary ADI, a toxicological reference value, and considered that additional studies had to be carried out because the toxicological database was still too limited at that stage. I therefore felt it was more than necessary to take strong measures to improve consumer safety. The imposition of a penalty in the case of infringements is a first measure. There are currently no discussions on a possible revision of European conditions of use on the European agenda. However, the European Commission has called on interested parties to carry out the necessary studies if they wish the additive to remain authorised after 2019. Afterwards, EFSA will use those studies to update the opinion. It is therefore stipulated that the European Commission will discuss with the Member States whether existing European legislation may need to be amended. Mrs Dedry, you can be sure that we will continue to be on the offensive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u12	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u13	Minister, it is apparent that it is difficult to obtain sufficient information on the presence of pesticides in imported products. How are controls organised? What substances are discovered? What is the follow-up when pesticides are detected?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u14	Mrs Gerkens, AFSCA controls pesticide residues in food and feed on the Belgian market in order to ensure that they comply with the maximum residue limits – the so-called MRL – set in European legislation. In this context, Belgian and imported products are analysed. The results of the controls are reported annually in the AFSCA activity report and in detail in the EFSA report. The overview of the checks carried out in recent years is also available on the AFSCA website. The AFSCA operates two types of controls on imported products: analyses carried out as part of the routine inspection program and analyses carried out as a result of suspicions of non-compliance. These analyses bring together the temporary reinforced European import controls as well as the controls following non-conformities found in the control programme. Between 2012 and 2016, the AFSCA analysed 9,504 products imported from Member States or third countries. 95% of these products were found to comply with the MRLs laid down in the legislation. Controlled products are analysed in laboratories using methods that allow the detection of more than 600 different pesticide residues. It should be noted that we have a good performance in terms of samples. Imported products, as well as products of Belgian origin, must comply with the MRLs in order to be placed on the Belgian market. In 2016, the most frequently detected pesticide residues were azoxystrobin, imazall, acetamipride, boscalid and imidaclopride. The first, second and fourth are fungicides, while the third and fifth are insecticides. As explained above, the products are analysed to verify the presence of more than 600 different pesticide residues. In 2016, however, 86 of the controlled samples were never detected during the AFSCA analyses. In other words, they were absent. The verification of pesticide residues in imported products is, as I have detailed, one of the AFSCA's control missions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u15	Minister, thank you. I will consult the AFSCA website and the ad hoc documents. Searching for a prohibited substance requires opening up the scope of controls. It is important not only to monitor compliance with the threshold for authorised substances, but also to look for substances that are not intended to be present in products. It was also the meaning of this question: to open the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u16	The register covers authorised products and unauthorized products.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u17	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u18	Question No 20501 by Mrs Fabienne Winckel is deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u19	Minister, this question dates back a while ago. You will hear me speak on a regular basis about your predecessor, who should have been forgotten a long time ago. This question dates back to September and concerns the fuel oil fund. As you know, the applicant for a fuel oil premium must meet one of the following conditions: entitlement to increased compensation, low income or debt burden. In April 2017, I had already asked your predecessor what he intended to do with this fund because it is referred to in the government agreement. When it appeared that a study had been ordered to evaluate in detail the energy funds, i.e. both the Social Fuel Oil Fund and the Gas and Electricity Fund, in order to obtain a global picture of who exactly the users are and how it is used, and to make adjustments if necessary. The results of that study were expected in the course of 2017. Your predecessor already had some ideas about possible adjustments. Minister, what are the results of this study? What recommendations does it contain to improve the functioning of the funds?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u20	Mrs van Peel, the social energy funds really support vulnerable people. I fully support your proposal to harmonise the various funds. It would be a step forward in the fight against energy poverty. The study on the evaluation of the social energy funds, carried out by the audit agency PwC, was finalised in June 2017. The study looked at the three types of federal interventions on energy, in particular the Gas and Electricity Fund, the Social Heating Fund and the Social tariff for natural gas and electricity. The study analysed the different funds through interviews of OCMW's and focus groups to explore their role and the functioning of the different funds. The study is available on the website of my administration, the PPS Social Integration. In 2015, the Social Heating Fund supported 82 953 families. The Gas and Electricity Fund handled 145 811 files that year. The Social tariff helped 492 964 households for electricity and 294 154 families for gas. The analysis showed that there were differences in the granting of the aid: in the conditions of access, but also in the method and amount of aid granted, according to the fuel. The OMCWs play different roles, ranging from a purely administrative follow-up under the Social Heating Fund to a preventive role under the Gas and Electricity Fund. The study also makes several recommendations to improve the management of the funds. In particular, it recommends harmonising the categories of right holders and the amounts of aid for the different fuels in order to automate the allocation of the Heating Fund as far as possible, to develop a preventive part in the Heating Fund, to improve the distribution of payments and to strengthen the framework of the OMCWs in the granting of preventive and curative aid. Mrs van Peel, I repeat that I fully support your proposals. My administration has already worked out a number of possible improvements, based on the recommendations of the study. However, this is a dossier involving a large number of actors. In fact, I will soon be talking to the associations of the OMCWs about this. I intend to examine the various recommendations in cooperation with the Minister for Energy and the Minister for Consumers. My aim is to develop a common approach, taking into account the possible budgetary impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u21	Minister, I would like to know what will come out of the consultation. We have to come back to that, because the figures you mention are huge. The problems with energy bills are rising. In my OCMW I note that applications for a fuel oil premium are actually simply settled administratively. For people who are entitled to it, it is just approved. So I think it is right that the approach for all the funds should be looked at in its entirety. We'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u22	Madam President, the first of my two questions concerns the investigation of foreign assets in the framework of the means test to be carried out by the OMCW. Article 3 of the RMI Act provides that persons shall enjoy the right to social integration if they do not have sufficient means of subsistence, nor are they able to acquire them either by their own efforts or by any other means. In order to determine the means of subsistence available to an applicant, there is a means test in the framework of social research, but there are still a lot of blind spots in it, including property abroad. It is necessary to check whether there is an income or property abroad. However, this control is often a very difficult task, for example because certain countries do not have a land register. It cannot, of course, be ignored, because people who have a sufficient income or wealth should not, of course, be entitled to a living wage. They are putting a great deal of pressure on social solidarity today and reducing the resources available to those who need it. It is no secret that, in the absence of sufficient control resources, the Antwerp OCMW has in the meantime identified someone and engaged a specialised private research company, following a Dutch example, where such companies exist since 2002, in order to detect the possession of foreign assets, in order to carry out the means test and the social investigation as thoroughly as possible and to rule out possible fraud. In Belgium such a system does not actually exist today. There was also a lot of commentary on what Antwerp was doing, while I think that there is even a gap in the current framework. Minister, by concluding agreements with other countries, this government is certainly trying to increase its control capacity. Your colleague, Secretary of State De Backer, is also committed to this, but there are still a lot of blind spots left. How do you view the use of private research companies by OCMWs? Is cooperation between OMCWs not desirable in this area? I have heard that Mr De Backer might want to take an initiative in this area too. Perhaps that has happened in consultation with you? What's your vision on that? My second question is also about the means test. With this question I actually want to raise an even more pressing problem which I believe can be solved much more quickly. It's exciting in the sense that all OCMWs are hitting it. In the current situation, the OMCW requests a written statement from each support seeker so that the OMCW may request the account of the person concerned from his bank on behalf of the aid seeker. The support seeker also states that he is only with that bank customer and that they are his only accounts. However, the OMCW cannot know whether the aid seeker in his name has an account open elsewhere, with another bank. Some banks wish to transmit this data only via Febelfin, where Febelfin acts as an intermediary. We should be able to proceed to a cheaper and watertight procedure. After all, sometimes it appears that an aid seeker still has other accounts open, contrary to what he initially states. We should create a legal framework within which the OCMWs obtain through the National Bank of Belgium a list of all accounts of the aid seeker, opened at any bank. In itself, this can easily be achieved by providing the OCMWs with access to the CAP. On a previous oral question from me, I have been working on it for a long time. Your predecessor replied that the administration was in contact with other partners, in particular with the FPS Finance. I checked, and the FPS Treasury is absolutely open to my proposal. A legal basis should be provided. The OMCWs must obtain access through the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. During the period when I asked my previous oral question, that stream was studied and a web service was also developed for future users. It's actually logic itself. In this way, the OMCW can have much easier access to the information on which accounts exist. Among other things, for privacy reasons, access to the amounts in those accounts will of course continue to be done through the client. The aid seeker must grant permission. If he does not agree, no social inquiry can be opened and his application will be refused in any event. However, I certainly do not want to leave that intermediate step. The OMCW should not have access to the amounts in those accounts, but should be informed about the existence of those accounts. Minister, what is the state of play? Will you create that legal framework? What are the claims, firstly, on the granting of access to the Crossroads Bank of Social Security, and secondly, on the development of the web service by the National Bank of Belgium? I hope there are plans in the meantime. If that is not the case, I will submit a legislative proposal myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u23	Madam President, Minister, my question dates from 13 December, almost five months ago. I don't know why that is. I hope that we will be able to ask our questions more quickly in the future, because five months is exceptionally long.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u24	I fully agree with you. However, I must invoke extenuating circumstances. Indeed, we have devoted several committee meetings to the Veviba case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u25	Apparently something went wrong. I just hope that this can be done more quickly in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u26	Mrs Lanjri, I have always agreed on the proposed dates for convening this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u27	So, Minister, something went wrong. I'd like to put that in context. My question has already been partially dated and much has changed in the meantime. My question was also about the appointment of private companies to combat benefit fraud, which is a form of social fraud. First of all, it is important that any form of fraud and abuse is dealt with, i.e. both social fraud and tax fraud. We must fight this. Social fraud, benefit fraud, we must not tolerate, of course, but we must put things in their proper context. We know that only a very small minority takes advantage. In Ghent, for example, it turned out to be only 5 %. Still, each percent is one too many. After all, we must concentrate our resources on those who really need it. The OMCWs have a duty to perform a power test against those to whom they give a living wage. They must check that someone is indeed needy. This is a task for the social assistants. However, the OCMW of Antwerp recently said that it wanted to appoint private companies to detect benefit fraudsters. It referred to successful initiatives in the Netherlands. However, research shows that the Dutch municipalities are no longer allowed to practice this practice since 2015 because of prohibitions by law. I believe that the same prohibition, whether explicit or implied, can be found in our Belgian legislation. The law on the right to social integration of 2002 states that it is the social workers who are responsible for carrying out social research and that this task cannot therefore be outsourced. Moreover, the Royal Implementing Decree of 11 July explicitly confirms that the social workers must have a recognised degree of social assistant. Moreover, they are bound by all kinds of laws and decrees to professional secrecy; they take the oath. That's settled, too. I will not quote the whole of the legislation here. Questions can therefore be asked about the proposed methodology that one wants to use in Antwerp, i.e. the use of private companies to obtain information about someone's ability abroad. I do not, of course, express an opinion on the fact that no one is allowed to cheat, nor on the fact that people have to state whether or not they are staying abroad. That makes sense to me. There is normally cooperation between public authorities in this area. I have already put questions to Minister Van Overtveldt about this. He replied positively and said that under the double taxation treaties there should be an exchange of information between our country and other countries, in order to see if people actually own property there. That's what the minister confirmed to me. It is strange, however, that private investigators should be used to determine on the spot whether someone owns a property, especially since this information is obtained in a different way and does not go through the authorities. Mr Minister, do you think it is possible to spend part of the resources research on an external partner, on a private company, whereas this external partner may not meet the conditions laid down in the law and in the royal decree? I am thinking here of the conditions relating to the diploma, professional secrecy and swearing-in. Were your services contacted in connection with the case from Antwerp, with the question of how to deal with it? If so, what was your answer? Did you or did the PPS Social Integration ask for additional advice from experts in this field? I am thinking of the VVSG and the Union des Villes et Communes de Wallonie. If so, what was their advice? If not, are you prepared to do so and, on the basis of this opinion, to come up with a legally binding proposal to obtain information on the foreign capital status of living wage-earners or applicants? In this context, I would also like to refer to my question to Minister Van Overtveldt. He pointed out, among other things, the possibility of doing so through double taxation treaties. Do you see any other possibilities? In addition, a few days ago, the newspaper said that the government, in the context of the budgetary conclave at the end of March, decided to cooperate with a central fraud agency. It is good to do so centrally from the federal government, so that the social assistants can ask their questions to such a federally regulated fraud agency and so that our country can work with other countries to obtain information in a legal way. Where does the government stand with the initiative to set up such a central agency? I understand that you will not work with private investigators, but that it will go from government to government, because you could. How and from when will that work? When can the OMCW call on it? OMCWs should be able to apply for aid, so that they should not all try to carry out investigations abroad. A big city like Antwerp might try that, but a small municipality simply doesn't have the means to start such investigations abroad. That would not be good either, especially if it were not done in a legal way. I am absolutely not against tackling fraud, but it must be done in a legal way, because information obtained in an unlawful manner cannot be done and there can also be protests.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u28	Mrs Van Peel and Mrs Lanjri, since your questions have been very long, your replies will have to be brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u29	Mrs Lanjri, Mrs Van Peel, the law is very clear. In order to receive a living wage, he or she may "not have sufficient means of subsistence, nor may he or she claim it, nor be able to acquire it either by his or her own efforts or by any other means." The state of need should be determined by the OMCW through the social research which includes, in particular, a means test. This research is accompanied by all kinds of data from different sources. Real estate income in Belgium and abroad are part of the income surveyed. I have indeed heard that some OCMWs would like to call on a private company to collect that information. I asked my administration to carry out a general legal analysis of the possible under-utilization of social research and its conformity with the existing legal framework. Today, an OCMW can, in order to get the best possible picture of the situation of the aid applicant with regard to his real estate, consult all the data of the real estate register and the tax returns with the FPS Finance. In addition, the applicant shall make a genuine and fully certified statement on the means, dated and signed. I want, of course, to continue to work with my fellow Finance and Foreign Ministers, Social Affairs and Asylum and Migration. In the long term, all OCMW debt instruments should be able to obtain official access to the data of foreign real estate land registers in a sound manner and in accordance with an adequate legal framework. In fact, Mrs Lanjri, the government has shown determination. During the Council of Ministers of 30 March 2018, it undertook to investigate possible measures, in particular against fraud involving real estate abroad. We must be determined against any fraud. This is the best guarantee to make an indispensable social safety net sustainable. However, this can only be done together with the OMCW and in accordance with the legal framework that lays down its tasks. The solutions analysed take into account, for example, the fact that only social assistants are allowed to carry out social investigations with respect for the provisions on the protection of privacy or professional secrecy which social workers naturally have to observe. I will continue to work on the different solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u30	Minister, your answer was not so clear here and there. It is true that, with the meeting of the Council of Ministers at the end of March, the government sent signals to take matters into its own hands. I think that's a good thing. As far as Antwerp is concerned, I think it is a good thing that people do not rest on their laurels. It is the largest city in Flanders, which has the most to do with the phenomenon. I support the fact that there is no waiting-and-see attitude. If it is not possible to do so legally today, although I have not received a clear answer on this today, we must consider whether the legal framework can be changed. There are two directions in such a discussion. I also had a question about access to the applicant's accounts. The practice shows that it is not always enough simply to rely on a statement that one speaks the truth to honour and conscience. I know from Minister Van Overtveldt that it is perfectly possible to allow that access. I hope that you will join the Minister again on this issue, so that steps can be taken in this area. This seems to me to be a simple step, which makes it much easier for the OCMWFs to carry out the resource test and it will also be much more correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u31	Minister, a number of things are clear to me. It is laid down by law that the social research and the research of resources must be carried out by the social assistant. He's authorized to do that. He has to comply with privacy laws. He's been kept under professional secrecy. So it can only happen because of him or her. In that you are clear. If Antwerp goes outside, which I believe is the case, it is clearly illegal, because it cannot be done according to the law. I understand that cities don't want to sit around and do something. I have absolutely no problem with that, but then they have to turn to the federal government to address the problem. That's what's happening here now. It is good that the federal government wants to tackle the legal framework. A legal approach is important, with partnerships with third countries. This will enable the data to be made available at the request of the social assistant. That's the way it's gonna be! I wonder what should happen to cities like Antwerp that are already working on this. I believe that you should send a signal that they should stop doing so now, pending a new government initiative. If not, there will be complaints in any way or the evidence collected will be unlawful. I hope, Minister, that you will consult with the city of Antwerp to deal with this problem as soon as possible. That way everything can be done in the right legal way. If the legislation is to be adapted to this, then so must we. However, this will not be tailored to a city, but to the whole of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u32	I understand you all very well. With regard to the choice of the OCMW of Antwerp, I would like to await the analysis of my administration. I'd like to get an overview of the file first.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u33	Minister, I submitted my question on 13 December. You know that Antwerp is working on this. I hope you didn't start that analysis today. We're running out of time! No one wants illegal things to happen in the meantime. It is important that your administration brings clarity very quickly. I submitted the question five months ago. I also asked whether such a practice was legally possible. You have already given a partial answer, namely that this is not really possible. You also say that a number of matters still need to be clarified. I would like to see that happen very quickly, because we do not want certain OMCWs to go into illegality.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u34	Mrs Lanjri, you requested that the Union of Towns and Municipalities be consulted on this file. If I had followed you, I think the opinion would probably not have been as sharp as the one I expect from my administration. As far as deadlines are concerned, I would like to acknowledge a form of frustration, having myself been a parliamentarian for quite a long time. But, as the Chair said, I have always been careful to meet with requests for meetings. We have even made a proposal to make up for the delay, because it is true that some of the files have occupied this committee for some time. However, I would ask that the opinion be delivered quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u35	Mrs Van Peel, you now have two combined questions. One on "the GPMI and the socio-professional exemption" (no. 20951) and the others on "the sanctioning policy within the GPMI" (No. 25339).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u36	Madam President, it is completely unclear to me why these two questions have been merged.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u37	It is the minister who chooses to attach questions or not...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u38	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u39	If the questions are attached, the Minister's answer is on their various components.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u40	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u41	Madam President, may I ask if we will continue this afternoon?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u42	The meeting will be adjourned at about 12.4 p.m. or 12.5 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u43	I wanted to know whether the issues under agenda item 24 will have time to be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u44	No, probably not.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u45	So my presence is no longer necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u46	Is it possible to get the written answers to my various questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u47	If I am told that I want to turn an oral question into a written question, then the cabinet sends the answers to the secretariat of the commission which transfers them to the members of the commission. In that case, you have to tell me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u48	Is there a committee meeting with oral questions scheduled for next week?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u49	We will meet again on May 29. Two dates in June are also planned. We will decide on the status of our program.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u50	Can I have my merged questions converted into written questions? That is a bit difficult, because then the other questioners must also agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u51	No. Unless the other speaker agrees to turn it into a written question. The same applies to Mrs Gantois' question. Mrs Somers must have agreed to turn her into a written question. You can ask him for his consent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u52	In this case, could you and Mrs Van Peel and I turn the joint questions 22632 and 22897 into written questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u53	If Mrs Van Peel agrees, as appears to be the case, the answer to these attached questions will be sent to the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u54	My question No. 24993 may also be converted into a written question. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u55	The Minister will send his response through the secretariat of the commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u56	Yes, Madam President, and I will also turn Question No 23910 into a written question. This will allow us to exhaust the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u57	So, also question number 23910?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u58	Yes, as well as Question No 22632.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u59	Yes, we've already talked about it. The Secretariat will send the list of questions to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u60	Madam President, Minister, this question concerns the socio-professional exemption. In the context of the employment-oriented and social activation of living-age beneficiaries, as your predecessor pointed out, you have two important instruments at your disposal: the GPMI and the socio-professional exemption. The new rules on the GPMI have been in force for some time now. However, the reform of the socio-professional exemption has so far been delayed. The objective of the socio-professional exemption measure is to give concrete encouragement to wage-earners to work and to make more work more profitable, which is not always the case in the current system. Unemployment traps where net income falls once one goes to work must be avoided. That also fits in perfectly with the vision of this government. To a previous oral question I was told that the administration was working on proposals. The new operation was planned in 2018. After all, the current system is too complex and involves a great deal of administrative burdens. I also have the impression that there are few OCMWs working well with it. My question dates back a long time ago. You may know that in the meantime, I myself have also drafted a legislative proposal, which I think is partly a good way to rework the socio-professional exemption. Of course, my proposal is under discussion. This has to be clarified further in committee, including through hearings. Minister, I would like to hear from you what steps you have taken in the meantime with your cabinet and whether a proposal has perhaps already been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u61	Mrs Van Peel, it is a very important file for me. As you rightly emphasise, the socio-professional exemption complements the reform of the individualised project for social integration. This exemption is intended to provide a financial incentive for the resumption of a paid activity while at the same time gradually reducing the rightholder's dependency on social benefits. The objective is therefore that he can gain more self-reliance and return to the labour market. Indeed, I remain convinced that employment is one of the best levers against poverty. The current system is complex, due to its method of calculation. It's causing poverty traps. I would like to say that the net income of the family does not increase, even when working more. For cohabiting couples it also causes inactivity traps, with a significant decrease in family income due to more work. My administration is currently examining a system based on a simpler method of calculation. Moreover, this system would allow the net income of the family to increase linearly as one works more. This proposal follows on from the recommendations formulated in a study by the University of Antwerp in 2015. I will examine these proposals carefully. I will also ensure that the reform is budgetaryly neutral. It's too important a file. I'd like to make it real quick.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u62	Thank you for your reply, Minister. In addition to the proposals of the University of Antwerp, you may also study my proposal before you come forward with your proposal. You say you want to go quickly. That would be a good thing, because we both want, as we all probably do, that people with a living wage who make real efforts get better. Today, that is not always the case. I will therefore await your draft before discussing my proposal. I'll tie it to it then. That will be the best way forward, but it will have to be done in the next few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u63	Madam President, Minister, I have come back to this a few times, but I keep getting questions from fellow OCMW presidents. Some sanctioning options within the GPMI remain unclear. Before the letter, which came under your name on 12 October, I had asked your predecessor, Minister Borsus, a few times whether it was still possible for all clients with a living wage to stop that wage immediately when they were converted to the compulsory GPMI. The GPMI contains certain rules on suspension. And actually, only the word "sustainment" appears in all letters and not the word "sustainment." You have received the written record of my question, so I will not read them completely. The questions I asked your predecessor, Minister Borsus, as well as yourself, were always answered that the decision to apply a penalty immediately in the event of lies, such as the cessation of living wages, had to be assessed by the OCMW. So there is a possibility. If I take your letter, however, there is nothing in it. It refers only to special circumstances which would not justify the suspension of living wages, even in the case of unreliable statements. I find that very confusing. To make it concrete, I give two examples. Firstly, someone is asking for a living wage and bringing in the extracts from his current account. The person concerned fulfils all the conditions, but after a while it becomes clear that he has a number of other accounts in his name with certain amounts of money. Without GPMI, the OCMW's used to decide to stop living wages immediately because of lies and because of not being needy. Today it is not so clear whether the GPMI can do that. Secondly, despite repeated warnings, someone is refusing to demonstrate his or her willingness to work and does not come to the agreements in this connection. This will continue to be the case even after a three-month suspension. In such cases, the OMCW should have the possibility to stop the living wage and, if necessary, to re-evaluate it only in the case of a new application. Mr Minister, can you explain very clearly the possibilities for sanctions and state what you mean by the principle of proportionality and the derogations, which means that fraud cannot be suspended? I believe that even more clarity is needed with regard to the OMCWs and their staff who face them on a daily basis, but also with regard to the clients themselves. In the case of flagrant lies, the withholding of information, social fraud or the manifest refusal of cooperation, can one stop the living wage awarded, or can it no longer do so since the introduction of the GPMI?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u64	Mr President, Mrs van Peel, my answer will be long and technical. Any person fulfilling the conditions of the Law of 26 May 2002 on the right to social integration may enjoy the right to social integration. In order to enjoy the right to social integration, the data subject must fulfil three cumulative conditions, including willingness to work. If the conditions for the right to social integration are no longer fulfilled or no longer fulfilled, the law provides for a clear legal framework allowing the suspension of living wages, for example when the condition of willingness to work is no longer met. There is therefore a clear legal basis that makes the living wage conditional, regardless of whether or not a GPMI was closed. To this must be added the sanction mechanisms laid down in Article 30 of the Act. The first paragraph lays down the conditions and duration of the suspension of the payment of the living wage in the event of fraud. Lying about the existence of resources is also included. The second paragraph lays down the conditions and duration of the suspension of the payment of the living wage in the event of non-compliance with the terms of the GPMI. The legal sanction mechanism for non-compliance with the GPMI means that if the obligations contained in the GPMI are not complied with without legitimate reason, the payment of the living wage may be suspended in whole or in part. Of course, the suspension of the payment of the living wage has serious consequences for a person entitled to a living wage. By suspending the payout of the living wage for a certain, limited period, the OCMW can keep a finger on the wrist of the person concerned and still accompany him. The ultimate objective of the GPMI is the socio-professional integration and, if this is not possible, the social integration of the person concerned. If the social worker finds that problems arise in the implementation of the GPMI, he will have a meeting with the person concerned as soon as possible, assessing exactly what is going wrong with the implementation. It may appear that the GPMI is no longer adapted to the personal situation of the person concerned. In this case, the GPMI may be modified by mutual agreement. It may also be that during the conversation, the person will see where it goes wrong and get back together. This can also be obtained by a reconfirmation of the agreements made in the GPMI, by an official warning or by a notice of formal notice. It is one of the core tasks of the social worker to provide the best possible guidance and to choose the best measures within the framework of this guidance. In summary, the right to social integration can be suspended in three cases: if the conditions laid down by law are not met, if the means of subsistence are incorrect or incomplete and, finally, if the conditions of the GPMI are not complied with.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u65	Mr President, it may be a linguistic confusion, but I continue to find it difficult to talk only about suspension. I understand you when you say that in 95% of cases a suspension is the only thing an OCMW needs and that it has to sit with the client again to adjust. The OMCW is certainly not allowed to unload the data subject because it sometimes fails. For the sake of clarity, I absolutely agree with that. However, there are also cases in which an OCMW, although a GPMI has already been launched, finds that the application should not have been approved, e.g. because of fraud. In the past, when no GPMI had to be drawn up at such times, the application was simply discontinued. It was not suspended first and then talked again, because this is not really the case in such cases. It is not clear to the OMCWs whether, when they are in the system of a GPMI, they are still allowed to stop or whether they can only fall back on a suspension. Your answer still does not make that quite clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u66	Minister, can you provide further clarification?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u67	No. I must admit that I believe that I have answered all the questions on this point. Mrs Van Peel, we have been careful to give you all the details. If this is not the case, if you find that there are missing elements, I will allow myself to answer them in a second time. Could you repeat to me the complements that you want to see brought? I'll be happy to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u68	Madam President, Minister, I will indeed do so. I will re-table my question and focus on that aspect. It's gonna be a short question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u69	The temporary or definitive cessation of the payment of allowances is therefore the subject of the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u70	Since Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux had not asked for anything, his question No 20995 was withdrawn. Question No 21523 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question at her request. Mrs Annick Lambrecht has asked that we wait for her question No 21789, but I think it will be postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u71	Mr Minister, this is an older question. In the aftermath of everything we have experienced around eggs, we recently saw a video from an egg company in West Flanders, in which we noticed that the laying hens were in terrible conditions. There have recently been many incidents: the fipronil crisis, the abuses in the slaughterhouses in Tielt and in chicken farms and so on. It is quite clear that something is wrong with our current agricultural model, which inevitably has a detrimental effect on the quality and safety of our food. Of course, some of these matters fall within the competence of the Länder, but I would like to ask you a few questions. Are you prepared, as a federal minister, to play a leading role in bringing to an end, together with the state ministers, the problems mentioned above in our agricultural sector, so that food on our plate is safe and high quality? Why is that? Why is that? Do you think that these are clearly structural problems facing our agricultural sector? How will you deal with them and with what timing? Are you prepared to evolve towards an agricultural model in the long term, with the ultimate aim of growing animals in a more natural way, on a more adapted scale, with an animal-worthy existence and food on our plate that is safe, tasty and quality?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u72	Mrs Dedry, as you yourself point out in your question, most of the issues you mention include animal welfare, sustainable agriculture, which is a matter for the regions. Personally, I am very sensitive to animal welfare. However, it is not my job to develop and explain policy on this matter to this House. This is a task for the Regions. Having said that, it is clear that, together with the agricultural players, I am highlighting the quality of the products of our farmers, farmers and producers. After all, I am aiming for an agricultural model that pays particular attention to the protection of Belgian farmers, without exclusive ones, in the context of a permanent search for a high level of food safety. In this respect, in the light of the findings made in the field at the company Veviba in Bastenaken and in view of the important impact on different sectors, I took the initiative to invite the various actors in the agri-food sector to hold constructive consultations. During these round tables, each sector proposed a number of measures which it considered to be a priority. Following these meetings, we have been able to define a number of themes specific to the sector, such as labelling, traceability, support for small producers and the image of the sector. Discussions with the various sectors will continue in the coming days to deepen the reflections and to formulate a number of concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u73	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u74	Question No 22106 by Mr Gautier Calomne is deleted. Joined Questions No 22122 by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux and No 22366 by Mrs Isabelle Galant are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u75	Mr Minister, unfortunately my question dates back to November 2017. However, it is still topical. It is a question of a state of affairs. I do not have to say anymore that a majority of European countries have approved the renewal of the licence for satsumas, which in our view is incomprehensible. After all, this is a controversial and potentially carcinogenic weedkiller. Minister, I am particularly pleased that our country voted against the granting. On the other hand, however, it is also inexplicable that so many countries want to keep the goods on the market even longer. I understand that, as you once stated, you would investigate how our country could introduce a faster ban. The French President Macron also took the initiative to introduce an accelerated ban in his own country. There is therefore nothing to prevent us from introducing the ban more quickly, both for individuals and for farmers. I am therefore a firm supporter of doing so as soon as possible. As I mentioned, my question is actually a question of a state of affairs. To what extent have you examined the file? Are you working on a ban in your cabinet? Will you introduce a ban, as you intended? What deadlines can we expect in this respect? Thank you, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u76	Mr Minister, it is easy that Mrs Jiroflée has already given me a whole part of my question. So I will be able to be very brief. I have the same question. What are you up to? Will you take steps at national level leading to a complete ban or at least a phasing-out of arthropods in our country, both for professionals and for individuals? If yes, what timing and what steps will you take? What contacts do you have with the Länder in this respect? My other questions and the introduction of my question are the same as those of Mrs Jiroflée. So I will not repeat them here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u77	Madam President, Minister, on 27 November, Europe was leaving for five years of glyphosate, following the decision of eighteen States to renew the licence for this product. Taking note of this decision, the Commission will publish this decision on 12 December in the Official Journal of the European Union. Under Article 263 of the Treaties, Member States as well as the European Parliament may request from the Court of Justice the annulment of acts adopted by the Commission or the European Council for incompetence, infringement of substantive forms, etc. It appears that, in the present state of our knowledge of glyphosate, the legal basis for such a remedy for breach of treaties, or for any rule of law relating to their application, is legion. In particular, section 4.2 of Regulation No. 1107/2009 provides that a plant protection substance may only be authorized if there is no harmful effect on human health, including vulnerable groups or on animal health and there is no unacceptable effect on the environment. Article 9 of the Treaty states that the Union must take into account, in defining and implementing its policies and actions, the requirements related to a high level of human health protection. Furthermore, Article 11 of the Treaty states that environmental protection requirements must be integrated into the definition and implementation of Union policies and actions. Numerous studies demonstrate the adverse effects of glyphosate on both human and animal health and the environment. It has also been classified as "probably carcinogenic to humans" by the International Cancer Research Centre. Many studies tending to prove otherwise have been disqualified as having been written on behalf of Monsanto, the firm that markets the most widespread brand of glyphosate herbicide. Mr Minister, you were opposed to the renewal of the authorisation of glyphosate at European level. Was it simply a posture or are you prepared to make a concrete, coherent and public interest act by requesting, on behalf of Belgium, on the basis of Article 267 of the Treaty, the cancellation of the Glyphosate licence from the European Court of Justice. Your predecessor announced on 27 April that he would propose an order to prohibit the placing on the market and therefore the use of glyphosate and other herbicides for use by individuals. You have confirmed this on several occasions. Do you therefore intend to follow your colleagues from the various regional governments in the near future? Do you have a schedule or are these statements of intent? Finally, I learned that on December 6, 2017, you received the visit of Saint-Nicolas, who came to present to you the aspirations of civil society for a gradual but rapid exit of the glyphosate. Minister, you had to work with your colleagues from different regional entities. Would you be prepared to commit yourself here to set up a task force of the competent ministers to prepare for the unconditional release of glyphosate by 2022? Madam President, my question dates back to last year and I wanted this task force to be set up in January.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u78	That is correct, Mr de Lamotte, but as has been said, we did not give the minister the opportunity to answer these questions because he had to answer other questions in the Veviba case, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u79	Mr Minister, I had also tabled a question in December but I have updated it because, since then, Belgium has distanced itself from the European decision to simply renew the authorisation of glyphosate. In December, you stated in plenary session that you intend to implement a phasing out policy in Belgium and organize yourself with farmers to get them to use alternative methods. You also stated that you would not file an appeal with the Court of Justice of the European Union because you felt that the possibility of obtaining a change in European decisions was almost void. Minister, what have you put in place, since December, with farmers to start a phasing out and put in place provisions to get out of this use?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u80	Madam President, on 27 November Belgium did indeed vote no to the European Commission's proposal because it did not take account of the public health challenges and because it did not consider the sector's dependence at all. The Belgian line is clear and coherent. We are aware of the dependence on agriculture. That is why, on the one hand, our country is in favour of a renewal of the authorisation limited to five years and, on the other hand, of the introduction of research to develop credible alternatives and to support the sector. You ask me why the European Court of Justice did not go to the European Court of Justice to challenge the European decision on the admission of arthropods. You know that we are currently out of time. I know that a regional government filed an appeal, but it was out of time. I am also not sure that this government's approach is not flawed from the outset in terms of procedures. We voted no and we therefore clearly deplore the decision of the Scientific Committee. However, on the basis of the analyses we have carried out, it does not appear that this decision is tainted by irregularities under European law. That is why we have not brought an action. If we had identified a flaw in the decision, we would have. Unfortunately, that is not the case. The path we have chosen is to join forces with other countries that, like Belgium, have opposed the decision and were in favour of finding credible alternatives. Mr de Lamotte, I have also had contacts with the Regions and I am willing to work with the federated entities. I do not hide from you that France and Minister Hulot have committed themselves to taking a number of initiatives with Belgium, Slovenia, Greece and Malta. However, I am still waiting for a sign from Minister Hulot. It's not for lack of trying to meet him. I hope to see him before the end of the semester to hear him about the work we have to do together on this subject. Our six countries – I think I have forgotten Luxembourg on the list – have reaffirmed their willingness to develop alternatives together. We have made concrete requests to the Commission. On the one hand, we would like a study to be carried out to identify alternatives and make them available to all stakeholders. Together with these countries, we will relaunch the Commission on this subject. Together with these, we also proposed a study on the carcinogenicity of the active substance glyphosate, by European agencies in collaboration with the national agencies of the voluntary Member States, as well as with the International Centre for Research on Cancer (IARC) and the World Health Organization (WHO). WHO and European agencies were taking somewhat different approaches in this debate. The concern is not to objectify – because we have made the decision to follow WHO studies – but rather to the fact that the debate was polluted by the various experts that the European agencies had called on. We also suggested the launch of a reform of the European framework for the assessment of chemicals, with a view to enhancing its transparency and independence. We want to continue to work in line with this demand. Six countries are calling for this change, but others will have to join us if we are to achieve a far-reaching reform. We also called for simplification of the framework for benchmarking in order to facilitate the substitution of substances in the review of applications for authorisation. This is important because we have not finished discussing some of the products on which the Scientific Committee will have to look at their renewal. When we look at a product in Europe, we consider alternatives to it. Sometimes they exist. Sometimes they exist extremely marginally and cannot replace the product that is being debated. This was the subject of another request, to strengthen research on the consequences of exposure of populations to chemicals in order to work in a non-toxic European environment. These are the requests we have submitted with five other countries and forwarded to the Commission. Several of you also ask me for further information on the status of federal bans on the sale of herbicides, including glyphosate, to individuals. This question refers to the draft royal decree amending the Royal Decree of 28 February 1994 on the conservation, placing on the market and use of pesticides for agricultural use. In summary, this project provides that a herbicide may be authorised for non-professional use only if it is a low-risk plant protection product or a product containing only active substances belonging to the following categories: micro-organisms extracted from plants, natural substances of animal, plant, mineral or microbial origin. This project will therefore put an end to an incoherent situation. Indeed, the use of glyphosate is prohibited while its sale is still permitted. I wanted to respect the rules and waited for the opinion of the Higher Council of Health before making arrangements. The latter asked me for an additional period of time for the notice to be produced. In the near future, the draft royal decree should be adopted and published. I say "in the near future", because I have also received requests from associations and NGOs – some of them very close to environmentalists – as part of the drafting of this royal decree. That is why I intend to take the time for consultation. In any case, I confirm to you that the royal decree will be published fairly quickly. To conclude my answer to your important questions, I would like to point out that this measure was planned in the framework of the Federal Plan for the Reduction of Plant Protection Products 2018-2022, which was approved by the Council of Ministers on 14 December. This plan demonstrates our willingness to move forward in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u81	Madam President, Minister, once again I would like to congratulate you on voting against in Europe. I also have the impression that you still want to go in the same direction. However, I do not hear you confirm that you want to be a precursor at Belgian level. However, I had the impression a few months ago that you wanted to go a little faster. You say you are waiting for a signal from the other countries and you hope that it will go in the right direction. Of course, waiting and hoping is not enough, Minister. I insist that nothing prevents us from playing a leading role. By the way, most of the countries you mentioned are smaller than Belgium. I believe that you can play a leading role in Europe. I am glad that at least, albeit at a different speed than I had hoped, we are moving in the right direction. I look forward to the publication of that KB.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u82	Minister, I do hope that you will continue along this path, that it will not be Echternach's procession, but that it will be progressing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u83	Minister, I have taken note of your answers. I think that we must have the ambition of a country that really wants to change things in the European dimension. With your colleagues, I am entrusting you with this ambitious mission to move forward because, obviously, the product has a few concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u84	Minister, I am pleased that Belgium has clearly positioned itself for a phasing out of glyphosate. I would have liked to hear in your reply perhaps more precise information on what is actually being done with Walloon, Brussels and Flemish farmers on changes in agricultural practices. You are right to say that alternatives and alternative substances are needed, but we must also be able to adapt agricultural practices to reduce the need for weed and other products. I really think that practical policies can be put in place with different levels of power.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u85	Mrs. Jiroflée, Mrs. Gerkens, I can hear you. I am committed to continuing to move the lines on this issue, including at the Belgian level, as you both alluded to. I had not planned to do so at this stage because I was waiting for a European signal, but as a result of your interventions, I will write to the Regions to see if they are ready to mobilise on this issue in the work we have to do with farmers. Indeed, our intention has not changed. We took a position on this product, indicating that we wanted to get out of it with a phasing out, and there is no reason to change philosophy in relation to it. I hope that the Regions will react to the mail. Madam President, I would like to convey this to you so that the members can dispose of it. Mr de Lamotte, I am not going to give up on the European level. It is true that we, together with the other countries, have determined a leadership from France in the framework of this European team. I am making every effort to ensure that we can achieve a strategy, in the coming weeks, and in any case before the summer holidays, with the French Minister, Mr Hulot, who is normally one of the workers' ankles at European level. I will also make sure, at European level, that we do not let our intentions remain a dead letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u86	I am pleased that you will be in contact with the regions and I would urge you to go for it. You can be a hero in this, Minister. After all, you are the federal minister and it is your job to play a leading role in this. Take them on tow, because it is an excellent time to really change something real. If you do, at least you will have our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u87	You have the support of the committee to activate things.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u88	Questions No 22203 by Mr Servais Verherstraeten, No 22366 and No 22560 by Mrs Isabelle Galant, No 22632 by Mrs Nahima Lanjri and No 22897 by Mrs Valerie Van Peel are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u89	Madam President, Minister, on Friday 27 April, an expert committee took the decision to ban three neonicotinoid pesticides considered dangerous for the brain development of bees at European level and from January 2019 onwards. Belgium, for its part, has chosen the path of abstention and you have indicated your willingness to obtain a transitional period for beet and chicory products. You mentioned in the press the possibility of activating Article 53 of the European Regulation 1107/2009 which would allow Belgium to derogate from the ban for 120 days. However, this derogation cannot be repeated without authorisation from the Commission, a principle which has already been violated by many States, including Belgium with regard to dichlorophene. I am, like you, aware of the situation of farmers from the above-mentioned sectors, and I am in favour of taking measures to preserve employment and competitiveness. Nevertheless, I do not know whether a short transition period is likely to change the situation for the sector. I think it would be wiser to invest our energy and resources by moving forward rather than looking to the past. Minister, what is the status of negotiations with the European Commission? Do you think you will be granted an extension of more than the 120 days authorized by the Regulations? If not, will you comply with European regulations? Have other European countries taken the same approach or are we the only ones? What long-term added value do you expect to derive from an extension of the authorisation to use the three prohibited substances? Will you include this extension of additional measures in your federal Bees plan to mitigate the impact on biodiversity?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u90	Minister, we have had the opportunity to speak on this subject recently in plenary. In view of the evolution of the neonicotinoid dossiers, we did not agree on the measures to be taken. In your responses, you referred to the bill that Ms.Dedry and I tabled in 2015, in which we said we had to go out without delay. After hearing the betteraviers, we thought they should be given a period of phasing out. Having recently learned of the latest studies and information on the subject, it appears that alternatives exist, not only chemical ones, but alternatives to agricultural practice. The latest studies referred to by the European Commission indicate that neonicotinoids should be banned without prolongation. If I understand correctly, Belgium has decided to use the possibility of requesting a derogation - an extension of 120 days to one or more times. When such practices are used, experience shows that it is often ad vitam and is therefore not a driving force for the transition. Is it not necessary to ask us, in consultation with these farmers, about the relevance of current agricultural practices? I am thinking of the choice of beet, which is indeed widespread, but which may no longer prove to be a suitable crop for the climate change of our countries. We probably have to start thinking about that. There are also actions to be carried out with refiners, who have concentrated economic activities from sugar beet and put pressure on both prices and sugar levels, often quite surreal in what is demanded of farmers. The interest and survival of beavers must be taken into account. Today, their survival is already very complicated. Minister, what decisions have been made? How will you act to ask for exemptions or not? In this case, should we not put the means, as in the case of glyphosate, in consultation with farmers in order to get out of the use of these substances as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u91	Madam President, Mr de Lamotte, as I indicated in plenary on 23 April last year, my position is twofold. On the one hand, eventually emerge from the neonicotinoids, which is why Belgium did not vote against the Commission's proposal, but abstained, and protect our pollinating insects, especially the bees that are essential to the balance of our ecosystem. On the other hand, avoid a sudden exit of neonicotinoids. This brings me back to the need for a transitional phase under such provisions. Indeed, if this were not the case, they would be counterproductive, in any case according to the University Faculty of Agronomic Sciences of Gembloux, including for our environment. Mr de Lamotte, as you have asked me to do, I will transmit to you and to the Members who wish to do so the opinion that has been delivered. According to Bernard Bodson, director of the plant branch of the Gembloux University Faculty of Agricultural Sciences, "the current alternatives are not sustainable. They are even worse in terms of impacts since it is a matter of spraying in case of infestation of aphids that spread jaundice. We will therefore use much larger amounts of insecticides which will spread even more into the environment and will be equally harmful to bees and pollinating insects." As far as alternatives are concerned, he added: "To my knowledge, in terms of alternatives, the research has not yet led to something satisfactory." Indeed, the profitability of the sector would be extremely undermined with a risk of a fall in profitability of 40%. This means that this opinion signalled a risk of dismantling the Belgian sector as well as an exit from beet cultivation, which threatens 8 000 jobs in this sector as well as in chicory. Indeed, more than 7,000 planters are involved, not to mention jobs in the sweets of Tirlemont and Tournai. We have not even taken up jobs in the transport sector. We kept to the strict minimum. So these are not figures that we wanted to inflate. Beyond the essential question of bees, this issue implies that we are also thinking about jobs. That is why our proposal, which joined the one you tabled in the form of an amendment with Mrs Dedry in 2016, seemed entirely nuanced to us. We must take account of a special feature which we have in relation to other European countries. When you look at the map of Europe about the yellowness transmitted by aphids, you notice one tiny pocket to the west of Spain, another in the south of England and in the south of the Netherlands, while in Germany a pocket extends over the whole Rhineland and one is visible to the north of France. On the other hand, for Belgium, the whole territory is concerned. While other countries could still grow beet elsewhere in the country, this concerns the entire territory. I regret that, at European level, our specific nature in this area has not been taken into account. We weren't the only ones. If I recall correctly, 16 countries voted in favour of the Commission's proposal and 12 countries abstained, as we did, or voted against. For some of them, their position was that they had to get out of it, but by giving themselves the means to do so, taking the time to adapt. Further questions were raised during the debate. Should we have thought of adapting earlier? Maybe. I would like to see some reflection on research and progress, both on this product and on others. We may not look sufficiently at the future in relation to this. We need to make some adjustments. That's the point I was at when I discovered this case last year. Finally, your questions relate to the options to be activated now that the vote has taken place. European law allows a Member State to grant emergency authorisations for 120 renewable days, subject to notification at European level. It's not an application for authorization. We are reporting at European level. The Commission is not going to tell us that we can. We are announcing this decision at European level. Of course, we must argue it, justify it. This is not about this year. The beets were planted. This will be handled in February or March next year. At present, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and in strict compliance with the European rules in force, we are considering the possibility of applying the derogation, since the European Commission leaves it to the Member States to grant emergency authorisations. As in the other case, does this exempt us from working on alternatives? No, all the more so since things are reversed in relation to the glyphosate file since a European decision is taken. As I said, I am in favour of leaving the neonicotinoids. We will need time, given our specificity and the fact that it is the entire Belgian territory that is affected. However, we have no choice. I have had contacts with professionals in the sector, whether they are beetkeepers, farmers or firms. I intend to receive these firms to ask them where they are about the alternatives. I hope that, at the political level, we will put some pressure on the industry to take steps to provide the beet sector with products that will ultimately have no disruptive impact on pollinating insects. However, at this stage, the evidence leads me to conclude that the alternatives used today would always be harmful – and perhaps even more so than neonicotinoids, I am told. I have tried to be as comprehensive as possible on the situation and on our intentions in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u92	Minister, thank you for your answer. I take note of that, but my question was whether you were going to ask for 120 days or more. I have not received a clear answer on this point. In the second answer, you have on one side the neonicotinoids and on the other side a bees plan. Is there not contradictions or big differences? I don't feel like I got an answer from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u93	The bees plan does not only concern neonicotinoids. There are a number of other measures taken in this context. The Bees Plan remains fully up to date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u94	I'd like to insist. I know Bernard Bodson well. He's someone I love very much, but he's having a hard time extending his analysis and field of thought to something other than the chemicals to be used. I really feel that we will have to ask ourselves in Belgium whether it is still possible and profitable to grow beet in the way we now grow it, with too short rotations, with plants too close together and with an abundance of aphids and yellow beet. Perhaps we should say that the conditions are no longer in place for it to be an interesting culture for our countries? Perhaps we should think of something else to grow by these same farmers? When we organised the hearings in committee, this issue aroused the horror of some representatives of the farmers present because the very organisation of our system and the development of the sugar and biodiesel industry are distorting the data somewhere. I insist on the possibility of cultivating otherwise, without necessarily resorting to chemicals that can actually be worse than neonicotinoids. It's been a long time since we said we had to get out of it. For this reason, in 2016 we tabled an amendment. We felt that this was the only way to gain support and to go against the fears of these different actors. Since then, time has passed and alternatives have been developed. But a European decision has taken place and it is difficult to say that we are not ready and that we must continue in the same way, using the same substances. History shows us that when Belgium and other countries used emergency permits with these 120-day derogations, they became ad vitam. I will file a written question to ask you about these substances for which emergency authorizations have been requested and for which they have been granted temporary and short-term benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u95	Madam President, I hear what you're saying about Mr Bodson. You love him very much. I don't know him personally, but I can tell you that he's not the only expert I've had contact with. He's not the only one on this line. Besides, I'm trying to be balanced. I'm a pragmatic. I'm not an ideologist or a doctrinary. I have to make sure that I balance between two requirements. I agree with the essential requirement to find a solution in relation to pollinating insects and bees. We know the situation is serious. But neither can I pretend that eight thousand jobs were not threatened. We're talking about eight thousand jobs! You have seen the legitimate impact that is taking place today in large-scale distribution as a result of this new problem: almost 450 people are at risk of losing their jobs. I consider each job in the same way. The threat of the loss of 8,000 jobs in the sector would be a terrible shock. I have to look this reality in front of me. Honestly, I do not think that, since the vote on your amendment, there has been sufficient development in terms of alternatives. The problem is there. If we can draw anything positive from European decision-making, I would like to see an acceleration in the search for alternatives. In relation to the European Regulation - and it is very difficult to weigh on this - it seems to me that in a number of cases we should be more likely to induce the possibility of getting more out of the use of certain products through transitions, firm and determined stages. It would be a matter of mobilizing research and industry to develop products that would be put back on the market without the harmful impacts as we know them with glyphosate or neocotinoids. If the European system were to evolve towards this kind of balance, it would allow us to go out more smoothly, but relatively short - three or five years in some cases - and a successful synthesis between respect for the environment and the need to produce. I personally subscribe to this political and even philosophical plan: to achieve this balance and allow it without remaining in manicheism. It seems to me that with a more nuanced logic in this respect, we could move forward without seeing what sometimes resembles false solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u96	We will have an opportunity to come back to it later. It is true that an equivalent REACH Regulation in the organic, pharma, pesticides and other products sector would probably be interesting, but it would require a proactive policy for all substances. They should then each be studied. And those that present a risk would be prohibited and there would be a phase in which producers would have to develop alternatives. It is indeed a fight that is continuing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic887x.u97	Colleagues, Minister, we will meet again on May 29.
