ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e52	For the sake of infection prevention, the President proposes that the public gallery be closed during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The new year is already well under way, but since this is the first meeting of the Stortinget in 2021, the President will nevertheless take the opportunity to wish the representatives, the members of the government and all the others who have their work linked to the Stortinget, a really good new year! The representatives of Magne Rommetveit, Une Bastholm, Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde and Aase Simonsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For More and Romesdal: Anders Riise For Uppland: Aud Hove For Rogaland: Julia Wong
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e97	The representative, Jon Georg Dale, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e102	On behalf of the representatives Sylvi Listhaug, Helge André Njåstad, Silje Hämdal, Morten Ørsal Johansen, Kjell-Børge Freiberg and myself, I will present a proposal for the relocation of the combined GIEK and Export Credit to Ålesund and Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e107	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e112	On behalf of Nicholas Wilkinson, Karin Andersen, Arne Nävra, Solfrid Lerbreck and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative on flood and scaffolding protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e117	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e133	Before the Prime Minister is given the floor, the President will state that a comment round will be opened after both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health and Welfare have made their presentations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e138	I will be allowed to take the opportunity to wish everyone a good new year and thank you for the opportunity to explain the status and management of the outbreak of the coronavirus. As I wrote in a letter to the British Presidency on October 27th, the government wants to keep the Storing updated on the Korona situation. On that basis, the Minister of Health and Health asked before Christmas to explain the work on the coronary apathy. I understand that this is also a desire for a broader orientation. Following my presentation, the Minister of Health and Health will inform you about the work on vaccines. It's now over a year since China reported the discovery of a new virus that would change our everyday lives for all of us. Norway quickly started diagnostics that could detect the virus, and the first case of covid-19 in Norway was detected on 26 February. Since that day, 3.1 million tests have been carried out, 58 000 have been detected, almost 2,300 have been hospitalized, and 517 have died. In Norway, we have managed to keep infection rates lower than in a very large number of other countries, but we have also had to tighten up to prevent the infection from coming out of control. We still have control of the infection, but we have no guarantee that it will continue to be like this. The situation can change quickly. Vaccination is in full swing, but we do not yet know to what extent it protects against further infection. In any case, it will take some time before many people are sufficiently vaccinated to make a significant impact on the spread. In many countries, the third wave of infection is described as the worst so far in the pandemic. Society is shut down, and hospitals are being filled up. Unlike in the fall, schools are also closed in many countries. What happens out here can also happen here. Where the infective situation may be, we are seeing more and more examples. Over a few weeks, Ireland went from one of the lowest rates of infection in Europe to the highest levels of statics. When the rise comes, it can come very quickly. We also saw that in Trondheim. Early in December, there was a wish to derogate from national measures for the protection of infection due to low levels of infection. A few weeks later, they had to tighten up with local measures. The tree layers of the county had the last two weeks of last year's highest infection in the whole country. This underlines the importance of rapid action in the event of signs of increased spread of infection. It is easier to abandon strict measures than to bring down outbreaks that come out of control. If the infection first comes out of control, the measures must be even more invasive and last even longer. Therefore, it is important to act quickly. The mutated variants of the virus make the situation even more vulnerable. Mutated viruses from the United Kingdom and South Africa have also found their way to Norway, and we have seen other mutations in Norwegian outbreaks. We closely follow the spread of the more contagious viruses, both in Norway and abroad. We must constantly be prepared to put in place even stronger measures to stop the infection. At the same time, we will have no more intervention than is necessary. The management of covid-19 is a strenuous balancing exercise, and we have to balance it on an ongoing basis. We need to adjust measures in the light of new knowledge and be quick to adjust when necessary. We have tried throughout the crisis to find a balance between what is proportionate intervention in the light of the infection situation, and to be the leader was and act quickly enough. It's not an easy problem. An action may be disproportionate early in the week because the infection rates are uncertain, and proportionately later in the week because we can then say with certainty that the infection is rising. Finding the right balance and not introducing very interventional measures until there is a basis for doing so may also mean that we need to act quickly once we can afford to step up the measures. If we act late, the result will be even more radical and long-term actions in the next round. The government has therefore been clear throughout the period that restrictions can come quickly. How the advice can change quickly, became clear through Christmas. Before Christmas, the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute assessed that there was no basis for intensified action during Christmas. On 29 December, the Health Directorate reported that there was still no need for mitigation, but that they wanted to make a new assessment at the beginning of January. But then, during the first few days of the new year, the situation became more unstable and unpredictable. The so-called R-number was then estimated to be 1,3 – up from 0,8 at the beginning of December and 1,0 just before Christmas. Early on Saturday 2 January, the Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate reported their concerns about the infection rates and advised them that evening. 18th@item: inlistbox The government followed up immediately. At a press conference on Sunday 3 January, I asked everyone to join me on a power roof to avoid a new wave of infection. We started in 2021 by asking the population to pause social life. We were afraid that the new year would start with a new wave. Among other things, national grants, universities, colleges and colleges were introduced for digital education, and secondary schools and secondary schools went to the red. We recommended that people avoid unnecessary travel both abroad and Norway, and we asked people to avoid all private visits and organized indoor activities. Measures for the students were quickly clarified and communicated already on Saturday. These are strict and interventional measures, but they were unfortunately necessary to ensure that the infection did not come out of control, and to prevent a dramatic increase in hospitalisations, as we have seen in several places in Europe. Unfortunately, our concerns were confirmed by the infection rates that came in week 1. The first week in 2021, we experienced the highest number of positive tests so far in the pandemic. The R-number was then calculated to be 1,4. Today, I am happy to say that people all over Norway joined the powerhouse. It's impressive after almost a year of infection prevention. In the Health Directorate Questionnaire on Korona, we see that many interrupted social life. People say the number of close contacts is lower than before. The survey also shows that the population is responding to the call to keep a distance. We now see the first signs that what we did at the beginning of January has given results on the spread of infection, although it is too early to evaluate the full effect. The numbers are still too high, and the concern about the mutated viruses has not diminished. Therefore, the Government has now decided to continue an elevated national level of action. At the same time, we're making some adjustments. The aim of these is, in particular, to make the everyday life of children and young people a little more normal. I stress that these are national measures. In high-infection municipalities, the municipality may continue to have more stringent measures. Then there are the municipal measures that apply. National levels of intervention for secondary and secondary schools are downgraded from red to yellow. Municipalities may maintain a red level out of the week if they need to prepare for the transition. However, high-infection municipalities should consider maintaining red levels in secondary and secondary schools and, where necessary, red levels also in kindergartens and kindergartens. In addition, the national recommendations of 20 January will be: Children and adolescents under the age of 20 may practice and participate in leisure activities as normal, both outdoors and indoors. They may also be exempted from the recommendation for a distance of one metre when necessary for the exercise of the activity. Ordinary training activities within clubs, teams and associations can therefore be carried out. But fights, cups and matches also for children and young people still have to be postponed. For adults, the recommendation not to engage in organised indoor activity is continued. Outdoors may be trained if it is possible to maintain a good distance. It is recommended to postpone all serial games for two weeks. The Norwegian Sports Association is asked to coordinate this with the special federations. The recommendation for digital education at universities, colleges and specialised schools is adjusted. We recommend the use of digital education where possible, that planned events be digital, and that major lectures and gatherings be avoided. All students in areas without high infection should be guaranteed physical education at least once a week when it is possible to carry it out in small groups and in line with the pathogen guides. Organizers are recommended to postpone cultural events, courses, conferences and religious and life-vision ceremonies that gather people from different municipalities. This includes both outdoor and indoor events, but not funerals. Today's number restrictions continue, and we urge people to respect the constraints that the organiser informs us about when events are held reserved for residents of a single municipality. The recommendation to avoid unnecessary travel in the country of origin and abroad is continued. A journey to the place of study or a domestic holiday home with those you live with will continue to be a necessary journey. We recommend that everyone continues to limit their social contact as much as possible. It is encouraged to meet others outdoors and not visit more than five guests in addition to the household members. If all the guests come from the same household, there may be more, but there must be no more than that you can keep distance. We're changing the rules for private gatherings outside our own home, like this. a day of living in a rented room, allowing up to 10 people to live. If the event is outdoors, the limit is 20 persons. We're also going to go on with the national prohibition, but we're going to review this next week. We mainly continue the measures from the turn of the year. When the government has chosen to facilitate some measures nationally, we have chosen to give priority to children and young people. It's been one of our most important priorities throughout the pandemic. One measure that many see as intervention is the ban on the supply of alcohol. For many, this implies lost turnover and legitimisation. Others lose a dear meeting place. In the light of the unbridled infectiveness situation, we have chosen to extend this measure. We know that employees in the food industry are strongly overrepresented in the case of coronary infection. A recent report from a Danish expert group assesses that bars are among the sites with the greatest impact on the spread of infection. We're all now tired of the corona. Together, however, we still seem to be able to shut down the infection when necessary. That's good. Because the father isn't over. We must be prepared to introduce new and more stringent measures if necessary. At the hearing, the government has sent an addendum to the infectious disease law that regulates port bans. No one wants a port ban in Norway, but if the infection comes out of control, so that life and health for many people are seriously threatened, it may be the last instrument we have to resort to. We see that it has happened in several countries around us. The Government has therefore come to the conclusion that the necessary preparations should be made so that, if necessary, port bans can be imposed within a regulated and predictable framework. But I have to repeat: we hope and believe that it will not happen, and we are working hard to avoid it. However, readiness is about us also having to be prepared for situations we do not want to get into. I can assure you that all measures under assessment are balanced against the unfortunate consequences that may arise when measures are introduced. The measures shall be as targeted and effective as possible and the negative impacts shall be minimised. At the same time, it is important to be clear that the alternative to infectious diseases measures is not a normal everyday life. The alternative is full hospitals, high deaths, fear and more serious economic consequences. Experience from other countries shows that it takes a great deal to reduce the infection once it is established at a high level. So we're going to do what's necessary to keep the infection under control. People have to prepare to live with different degrees of infection and infection protection measures towards the summer, maybe even longer. At the same time, the measures shall not be more stringent than they must be and we shall descend as soon as they are sound. The government has been worried about import infection throughout the pandemic. As early as mid-March last year, quarantine and entry bans were introduced into Norway. Since then, many adjustments have been made, both in the interests of families who want to be together, and people who are going to work, but also to keep their imports down. Even when we're going to limit the number of people entering our country, different considerations have to be weighed against each other. Finding the right balance is a challenge. The health effects must be weighed against the obviously negative consequences of the measures — for families not met, for hotels without guests, for public and private enterprises that do not have the labour they depend on. Whether you like it or not, our society is completely dependent on labour from other countries. We are dependent on getting goods into the country and being able to send goods out. The government has been busy keeping the wheels running. It is also important for our society to be able to cope with the measures until the population is vaccinated. Therefore, there have been constant balances between benefits and disadvantages. For example, we've kept the supply lines open. Hospitals have had access to foreign labour as usual, so that people who get sick can receive treatment, but with extra caution. Farmers have been given seasonal labour force so that they have been able to sow and harvest the food. The same with fisheries, so that it will be possible to carry out winter fishing on which many district communities are totally dependent in order to maintain their habitat. Coastal yards have been provided with the labour to which they are accustomed so that they can deliver on the contracts they have concluded. The same applies to other industries. Many jobs would be lost if we were to close the boundaries completely. The government has always had rules to limit the number of people coming. There have also been rules to detect infection and to avoid infection. These rules have changed with the disease situation in Norway and in countries from which people come. In the summer many countries were ‘green’. Then there was little risk and the rules were less strict. As the disease situation changed in Europe last autumn, the government took action, and we have continually introduced new measures to prevent the import of infectious diseases and to prevent the spread of infection in Norway. On 31 October we tightened up the rules for workers. When I explained to the Stortinget on November 5, last year, I informed that the government had put in place a quarantine hotel scheme. Such hotels are now established in all counties. State administrators are responsible for ensuring that there is sufficient capacity in the county at all times. From 9 November, a requirement was introduced to require travellers from countries subject to quarantine to present a certificate of negative covid-19 test when they arrive in Norway. The government also took immediate action through Christmas to ensure that the virus variant detected in the United Kingdom was to spread to Norway as much as possible. For the time being, the mutation does not appear to have been attached here. From other countries, we have seen that it is demanding to prevent the virus from establishing itself. But it's important to win time. If we win enough time, vaccination and hopefully summer heat will also help us. If we get to Easter, a large proportion of the risk groups are likely to have been vaccinated. The threat from the mutated viruses contributed to the government's obligation on 2 January to test for covid-19 for all travellers to Norway. To give the municipalities time to build the test capacity, we opened up so that the test could be done no later than one day after arrival. We also asked the border municipalities concerned to build up sufficient capacity as soon as possible to manage all those entering the country at the border crossings in question. We have also established an entry register. It will make it easier to follow up and check that the quarantine is respected. As of today, we are further tightening the rule of testing when one comes to the country. Now all travellers are to be tested on the frontier. The exception is Svinesund, where the municipality needs a few more days to build up the test capacity. They may continue to grant exemptions to allow those who have a permanent stay in Norway to enter with an obligation to test within 24 hours. In order to assist the municipalities, the Directorate of Health has been given the task of setting up a national telephone centre to follow up the travellers. The staff of the Centre shall have the right to speak more than one language, as no resident speaks Scandinavian or English. This will make it easier for municipalities to check whether travellers have been tested and quarantined, thus reducing the workload for municipalities. Local authorities will be provided with all the costs of testing and checking whether residents have actually taken a coronary test. Those who are not tested risk fines. Persons with a false certificate of negative covid-19 test may be expelled and fined. If we compare Norway with the rest of Europe, we have been throughout among countries with the most stringent entry and quarantine rules. In an overview of what kind of action the population in different countries will otherwise have to live with, we see that the Nordics have fewer limitations in their everyday lives. I think that has been a proper priority. The strict entry rules we have now introduced also help relieve the burden on municipalities. But they represent a significant extra burden on municipalities with border crossings, airports and ports, even though the state takes all the costs. There has been a lot of discussion about testing at the border. Until recently, the clear advice of the Health Directorate to the government has been to give priority to the testing capacity to shut down local outbreaks in Norway. It is also important to bear in mind that, if quarantine is carried out, it is only safe to avoid spread. The experience from Iceland shows that about 25 pst. by those infected were not caught by the test carried out at the border. There are mainly two reasons why the situation has now changed and that the Health Directorate is now recommending testing at the border. One reason is the desire to delay the spread of the more contagious variants of the virus as much as possible. The second reason is the availability of rapid tests. They're increasing our overall test capacity. In addition, rapid tests make it possible for insulation to be started immediately by a positive test result. These tests also do not require laboratory capacity. But I must again stress that the most important thing is the entry quarantine, and that this is carried out in line with the regulations. For this reason, a number of measures have been taken by the government to follow up on this. The municipalities are in a situation of pressure. They shall test and trace the infection, ensure that all positive testers isolate themselves and shall contribute to the notification of close contacts to the infected person in order to allow them to enter quarantine. Municipalities also have the task of vaccinating their inhabitants. At the same time, municipalities shall provide all normal health and care services and protect the services of vulnerable groups, including: vulnerable children and young people. Municipalities shall also monitor compliance with the rules for events, serving places and employees. It's also a priority task. Successful vaccination is the highest priority task in the future. Municipalities must have the capacity and resources for the large vaccination job ahead of them. That is why we must all help to prevent resource-intensive outbreaks and reduce infection in the population. In a situation of pressure, I would encourage the municipalities to cooperate and help each other. State administrators have an important role to play in contributing to cooperation between municipalities, including: on the vaccination which has now started throughout the country. In the last two months, the number of hospitalisations and the number of patients receiving respiratory therapy has remained fairly stable, although we have seen a moderate increase recently. But we know that this can turn fast. Fortunately, we are now better prepared for an increase in seriously ill covid-19 patients than we were last year. Hospitals closely monitor the development of infection rates and can adapt capacity in the event of an increase in patient flow. We have good access to infectious disease protection equipment and medical-technical equipment. Plans have been made to meet a situation where we need to mobilise rapidly for a much higher intensive capacity. And we can do more about the disease and have become better at treating the patients. But we don't want to get into such a situation. This will mean that other planned treatments will have to be subjected to the care of the covid-19 patients. And we still can't save anyone who gets a serious history of disease. Compared to other countries, Norway is so far in achieving a high level of health and economic performance, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. The OECD has assessed this. But for us too, there is a huge loss, and the situation is fragile. We are expected to have a fall in the mainland GDP for 2020 on about 3 pst. It's less than in most countries in the world. The decline is about as estimated in the national budget, but less than we thought in May last year, when we reported a fall of 4-8 pst. The fact that the case has not increased has to be noted, among other things. is seen in the light of: we have managed to control the infection Norwegian enterprises have had access to labour and supplies from abroad we have had powerful financial measures The GDP figure shows the whole picture. Behind the macros there are big differences. The crisis has turned out very differently in business. Service industries such as tourism, restaurants and transport represent 10 pst. of the Norwegian economy, and the activity of these industries was in November 25 pst. below the level just before the pandemic. These industries have a greater share of employment than of GDP, with every six Norwegian jobs. At the same time, 90 pst. of the Norwegian economy unchanged value creation in November compared to February last year. This relatively positive development for this part of business must, among other things, be achieved. be seen in the light of the measures taken. The financial package of measures works and provides less leave than we would otherwise have. It can be seen, for example. until the temporary tax changes for the oil and gas industry have had a good effect. The estimates of the Oil Directorate now indicate an annual level of investment in the years to come which gives a slightly higher level of activity than estimated before the pandemic broke out. This provides jobs on land and contributes to technological development and competence in the supplier industry. Enterprises with a high demand for foreign labour, such as in construction and construction and the shipbuilding industry, and thus high quarantine costs, have also received additional support for such costs. Many enjoy regular work and low interest rates and save money by reducing the chances of spending money. Other workers have been outsourced and experience uncertainty, insecurity and a weakened economy. Attention has been, and must continue to be, on those most affected. I am particularly concerned about the long-term unemployed, young people, lonely people and those with weak links to the labour market. Here, too, we have put forward targeted measures. Among other things, we have submitted a package of measures of almost 160 million. targeted at vulnerable groups and people affected by solitude and isolation. In the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, we agreed on 400 million. kr in earmarked grants for activity measures and the fight against loneliness among the elderly. This is in addition to increasing efforts to include, educate and respond to children. We will continue to focus on vulnerable groups, and we are now working on new measures for both long-term unemployed and vulnerable children and young people. For the Norwegian economy, 2021 is likely – and hopefully – to be a year of great differences throughout the year. The beginning of the year is strongly characterized by the coronary apathy. Unemployment is higher than normal, much is closed, and activity is lower. But it goes clearly better than last year. This is because the measures for the protection of infection are less extensive and companies have learned how to adapt costs and operations to the situation. Norwegian businesses also benefit from higher oil prices and increased foreign demand. In the course of the year, we expect that the vaccine programme will drive the pandemic back, and that we can return to an almost normal life. The government's overall reopening strategy is thus firm. We know that the main contribution to activity, employment and growth in the service industries is the cessation of strict measures. Then people can travel again, work, go out into town and live more like before. Therefore, strict measures are being taken in the light of the infection situation and a comprehensive vaccine programme is being implemented. We know that many have saved much more than usual under the pandemic. It means that many people have money to spend when the pandemic is over, and it will contribute to the growth of the economy. Several forecasts now estimate that the Norwegian economy will grow more in 2021 than just a short time ago. Although, hopefully, we are now looking at the end of the pandemic further ahead, we still have to be prepared to live with different degrees of infection and infectious disease prevention towards the summer – and perhaps longer. Thus, uncertainty about future developments remains high. I've also said that we have to expect an increasing number of bankruptcies. Paradoxically, the number of bankruptcies was lower than usual last year. We assume that the sum of financial measures, including deferred taxes and taxes, has contributed to this, but we need to be prepared to increase the bankruptcy rate in the future. The government has been saying since March that we will have financial measures as long as we have infectious measures. And we've shown through 2020 that we're following up on actions on an ongoing basis, as the situation develops. In it there is predictability. With the agreement of the Progress Party on the state budget for 2021, the Stortinget adopted a number of financial measures in response to the pandemic just a few weeks ago. That money is now being put to work. However, we have also said that the financial measures must be adapted to the infectious situation and to the measures we are taking. This is still the case, and it may become even more important on the way out of the crisis. The government will maintain the compensation mechanism and other compensatory measures as long as they are correct and necessary, but as soon as possible, economic policy must encourage activity and conversion. This applies both to enterprises and to individuals. It's also a balance sheet. In many cases it is not ‘the more, the better’. Measures that may be convenient in the short term may weaken the economy in the longer term, as many economists pointed out already in an early phase of the pandemic. Uncritically allowing too many over a long period of time could weaken growth, jobs and change in the long term. It is not primarily about saving money for the public, but about creating the basis for new jobs, more activity and increased well-being and preventing the weakest from falling outside the labour market. The government's message of creating more and including more also applies here. It is an objective that as many as possible lay-offs should be able to return to work, but not all businesses will survive, and therefore the individual worker has to assess how he or she best meets the future. The longer you are without a job, the harder it is to get back to work. Permitted persons should therefore seize new job opportunities when they occur. There is also a background to the government's view that it is right to be careful about extending the permit regime too far in time. At the same time, the Minister of Finance of the United Kingdom opened early in December in order for the government to consider an extension of the leave mechanism in the light of the situation. I believe that with our ongoing handling, with the measures that now work, and those that we propose, we give business the predictability that it is possible to give. Some of the things that have embossed the pandemic are just unpredictable. However, predictability is not the same as the long-term firmness of the measures with the same device, regardless of the measures to be applied. Predictability is about having financial measures adapted to the infectiveness situation. If we compare ourselves with the countries around us, Norwegian business has good arrangements that have come quickly. Our businesses can also be confident in the future that the government will do what is needed to get the best out of this crisis. I would also like to refer here to good cooperation in Stortinget through many and extraordinary rounds of financial measures. It's also going to be important through 2021. Taking care of our businesses is important in order to enable the growth of the economy to recover rapidly when the measures to prevent infection can be relaxed, so that as many as possible have a job to do after the crisis. In December, the government joined the Stortinget to reestablish a wide-ranging business compensation system. Since at 4 p.m. Today, the Brønn Island Health Registers have received applications for compensation. Most of the companies that are applying now will get the money very quickly. We have already published that we will extend the business compensation scheme until April, and the government is prepared to extend this scheme further if necessary. We have also made proposals to extend the permit regime and the temporary system of increased daily allowances until the summer. Business is also covered by a number of other schemes, and the government is working with several actions in the future. These will be presented to the Storting in a proposition on 29 January. In particular, measures are important to enhance the competitiveness of businesses and the competence of individuals. Innovation grants stimulate small and large growth companies to maintain research and innovation activities over the pandemic period, despite performance failures and liquidity challenges. Innovation Norway has been given an increased framework for innovation grants, and the demand for such funds has been high. That's a good sign. It will provide a basis for profitable growth in the long term, while keeping important competences at work. The Government will propose to further strengthen this scheme. Gift bans and infectious diseases have hit the food industry particularly hard. With major trading losses, the compensation from the country will increase from 1 January up to 80 pst. of fixed unavoidable costs. Municipalities in high-freedom areas received 250 million as a result of decisions in Stortinget just before Christmas. kr in order to be able to support particularly vulnerable enterprises. Many travel and catering companies received support from the travel conversion scheme last year. The deadline for applying for the second round of the conversion scheme expired on 8 January and the scheme has now been extended to the event industry. The government will further strengthen the migration system for travel and there will be a separate call for the event industry with subcontractors. Both air traffic and public transport have been hit hard by the pandemic and the measures to protect infection, and, following the agreement on the State budget, 2 billion have been allocated for 2021. NOK for the purchase of air routes. The exemption from the air passenger charge has been extended by 2021, while low VAT on passenger transport by 6 pst. was extended until 1 July. It's further allocated 650 million. kr extra to maintain the train offer and SEK 1.25 billion kr for public transport. Additional agreements have also been concluded with Havila and Hurtigruten, including: means that the Hurtigruten will sail five ahead of two ships until the end of March. The Government will propose funds for the financing of Avinor and follow up previous decisions to assess measures for aviation in the future. It is known that the government also considers an enquiry from Norwegian to contribute capital in the ongoing restructuring of the company. If Norwegian can come out as a financially strengthened and healthy operated company through restructuring, it will be positive for the offer of flights and competition in Norwegian aviation. The government also sees the need for new financial measures for students who have lost income. We will come back to the scope and arrangement of this, but we still consider the Loan Fund to be the best place to support the students. The measures on infectious diseases place considerable restrictions on cultural life and on actors living by bringing people together. In the budget for 2021, it is set at over 2.25 billion. kr to aid schemes for culture, sport and volunteering. We need a rich and diverse cultural life, even when the pandemic is over. Last Friday, applications for the 350 million grant scheme were made. kr for large public open events that have had to cancel or scale down as a result of the coronary apathy. As infection prevention measures are removed and support schemes are stepped down, much of the activity in the economy is likely to come back, as many will again go to cinema, eat out and go on weekends. We want new ones because we've kept businesses floating, and because we've stimulated education, conversion and re-filling skills. The need for further fiscal incentives needs to be assessed after the removal of infectious diseases. When the activity returns to a normal level of activity, the use of oil money must also be stepped down and replaced by new activity in the private sector. Many looked forward to 2021 with hope and expectation. So far the year has been a disappointment for many. But we're not going to give up 2021. There's light in the tunnel. Vaccination is in progress. We have to endure. Today, when the government continues strict national measures for at least two more weeks, there is a different backdrop to that of a very large number of countries around us. But the pandemic and the situation are global, and the global and European situation is a warning of what can happen if we fail to keep the infection down. Internationally, my colleagues are faced with severe problems of very high and increasing infection, a health service that is on the verge, and sky-high deaths. Port bans and very interventional measures are being extended in many countries. With your back against the wall, the action space decreases. We don't want to get there. We're now at the beginning of a long and evil marathon. Vaccination is in progress. But the last distance can be the toughest. People are tired, new variants of the virus can give us tough uphills, and the infection in society is still too high. With joint efforts we can in the future get the infection down, so that winter and spring become brighter for all of us. And for every week that goes, we're one week closer to being vaccinated enough to take back our daily lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e328	Through EU cooperation that Norway is part of, we have started vaccination against covid-19 more quickly than many had hoped. On the second Christmas day, the first delivery came to Norway, and the next day the first hospital resident was vaccinated. Initially, the number of doses is limited. Most municipalities started to vaccinate the population just after New Year’s. Today, a total of 48 680 covid-19 vaccines were registered in the National Vaccine Register, SYSVAK. We expect large deliveries of vaccines in the next few weeks and months. Once the risk groups have been vaccinated, fewer could become seriously ill, but we can still have large and smaller outbreaks. The epidemic still needs to be kept under control so that the capacity of healthcare is not congested. We closely monitor the situation and adapt the measures to prevent infection after the development of infection rates. It was not obvious that Norway's population would have access to vaccines against covid-19 as early as we did. When vaccines are scarce, even good purchasing power is no guarantee of rapid access. Norway is a small market of limited interest for large market players, and we do not have our own production of vaccines for humans. Several countries warned restrictions on the export of vaccines, and efforts to ensure access to infectious equipment in the early phase of the pandemic had shown us the vulnerability of the global market for medicinal products and medical devices. In a global vaccine market with considerable uncertainty, Norway is therefore dependent on cooperating with other countries in the same situation. The fact that we have now started vaccination in Norway is due to the fact that, together with the EU, we were able to invest early risk capital in vaccine development and production, and that the European Commission and the Member States have arranged for Norway to be included in EU acquisitions through resale agreements with Sweden. It is now clear that Norway will be able to receive at least 3.4 million vaccine doses from Pfizer-BioNTech, 1.89 million vaccine doses from Moderna and over 3.3 million vaccine doses from AstraZeneca. The last one requires approval, which is expected to arrive at the end of this month. In addition, we expect a significant volume from the EU’s recently concluded supplementary agreement with Pfizer-BioNTech. We will also have access to considerable volume from Janssen. In addition, we will be able to receive large volumes of EU agreements with CureVac, Sanofi-GSK, Novavax and Valneva, if these vaccines are approved. The EU has entered into binding supply agreements with five producers, an option agreement with one sixth and an intention agreement with another two companies. If all the vaccines agreed by the EU are approved, Norway will have access to three times as many vaccines as we need. Vaccines that we do not need ourselves will be given to other countries that need vaccines. We are planning to do this in cooperation with other European countries. CEPI is the global coalition for the prevention of epidemics and pandemics. It was established following the ebola epidemic in West Africa in 2014-2015 in order to develop vaccines against the disease. Norway played an important role in this establishment, and, as you know, CEPI has its head office divided between Oslo and London. Since then, CEPI has contributed to the financing of vaccine development, including: to the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca as well as CureVac, which has probably contributed to the rapid development of vaccines against covid-19. The two companies AstraZeneca and CureVac are expected to deliver a total of 565 million vaccine doses to Europe during 2021. That's enough to vaccinate 62 pst. by the citizens of the EU and the EEA. Norway is the largest contributor to CEPI. The Government decided in March last year to increase the allocation of CEPI by 2.2 billion. kr over several years. The aim of the increased allocation was to strengthen CEPI’s efforts to develop vaccines against covid-19. ACT-Accelerator, which is the global cooperation for development, production and equivalent access to new diagnostics, treatment and vaccines against covid-19, was launched in April with the support of, among others, Prime Minister Erna Solberg. COVAX, the vaccine pillar of this cooperation, was developed as a cooperation between WHO, Gavi and CEPI organisations. COVAX set an early target for up to 2 billion vaccine doses to be available in 2021 for an equivalent distribution between countries, irrespective of their ability to pay. The distribution key that COVAX proposed and maintained for a long time meant that countries would not be able to cover vaccines for more than 20 pst. of its own population. This is not good enough to make the contagion curve point downwards. Therefore, the Public Health Institute was mandated to model how different vaccination and vaccine availability scenarios could affect the spread of infection and the need to continue other measures to prevent infection. The models showed that in the case of widespread infection, there was a need to vaccinate significantly more than 20 pst. of the population before an acceptable reduction in the number of expected hospitalisations could be seen — even with an effective vaccine. At that time it became clear that COVAX alone could not meet Norway’s need for vaccines. The work on ensuring access to vaccines against covid-19 has been very political in nature. That is why the Ministry of Health and Welfare – not the Institute of Public Health – has managed the work. There has also been extensive cooperation between the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In May and June we had extensive research on vaccine cooperation with colleagues in other Nordic and European countries and with the European Commission. We also had meetings with representatives of vaccine manufacturers. Manufacturers were clear that they wanted to enter into an agreement with an overall Europe, not with individual countries. Early in June, there was contact between the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the German Ministry of Health and the French Prime Minister's office. The theme was the Inclusive Vaccine Alliance, IVA, a European initiative for the development, production and acquisition of vaccines against covid-19. The alliance was launched by Germany and France together with Italy and the Netherlands on 5 June. During this period, I had extensive political contact on vaccines with my European colleagues, among others. talks with German Health Minister Jens Spahn, 12 June and with European Commissioner Stella Kyriakides, responsible for Health in the European Commission, 2 and 17 July. On 11 June, Prime Minister Erna Solberg sent a letter to Commission President Ursula von der Leyen on Norwegian participation in IVA, at the invitation of, among others, France. Two days later, on 13 June, IVA countries signed an agreement with the pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca on the delivery of up to 400 million vaccine doses to European countries. It became clear at the time that the EU would take over the work started by the IVA countries. On 2 July, therefore, the Government formally decided that close cooperation with the EU should be Norway’s main strategy for accessing vaccines to its own population. In July and August, we had regular discussions with Sandra Gallina, the EU’s main distributor of vaccine acquisitions, and with Sweden’s vaccine coordinator, Richard Bergström, on Norway’s link to EU vaccine acquisitions. It was not obvious that Norway could become part of EU agreements. We constantly met positive verbal feedback on such a wish, both from the European Commission and from the individual EU Member States with which we were in contact. The United Kingdom concluded its own bilateral agreements outside other European cooperation. We were therefore concerned that this would lead to scepticism in the EU against having to include countries outside the EU. The EU used the Security of Supply Mechanism Emergency Support Instrument, ESI, for risk investment for vaccine development. They did so, among other things. to cover the establishment costs of scaling up the production capacity of vaccines. Norway is not part of the ESI, and no mechanism has been found to provide direct payments from Norway to the ESI — despite several Norwegian payment offers. We were thus prevented from being a direct party to the agreements entered into by the EU and its Member States with vaccine producers. We received clear feedback from the Commission that the legal barriers for Norway to become a party to the ESI were absolute, but at the same time there were clear political commitments to try together to find solutions to the legal obstacles. We therefore worked hard to find models that solved the legal problems. It was the Swedish vaccine coordinator, Richard Bergström, who proposed in August a model for resale to the EEA countries and Switzerland. The solution means that all EU countries are depriving themselves of a volume of up to 3 pst. to meet the needs of Norway, Iceland, Switzerland and Liechtenstein and to resell vaccine doses from one of the EU Member States at a price that also includes the ESI share. Then it is this EU country that pays this ESI share to the European Commission. On 14 August, the EU signed an agreement with AstraZeneca whereby the EU took over the vaccine agreement concluded two months earlier by IVA countries. On the same day, Prime Minister Erna Solberg had a conversation with Commission President von der Leyen, who subsequently issued a twitter notification that EU agreements with pharmaceutical companies under the EU vaccine strategy also cover the needs of Norway and other EEA countries. The solution came through Sweden. I had a conversation with my colleague Lena Hallengren on 20 August about possible resales from Sweden's acquisitions. In a press conference on vaccines the same day, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, together with Lena Hallengren and Richard Bergström, announced that Sweden would ensure the redistribution of vaccines from EU acquisitions to Norway and Iceland. A tripartite agreement was concluded between Sweden, Norway and AstraZeneca on Norway’s link to the EU agreement with AstraZeneca and a resale agreement between Sweden and Norway was concluded on 15 October. To date, the EU has signed agreements on vaccine deliveries with eight different vaccine companies, and Norway’s link is ensured through the same mechanism for all these agreements. The effort to obtain vaccines against covid-19 is fast and a large number of vaccine candidates are developing worldwide. There is still uncertainty about how many and which of these candidates will prove to be safe and effective. Vaccine development is associated with high risks, and the probability of success in bringing a vaccine candidate to the market is about 20 pst. No one has known whether such an estimate could be transferred to covid-19 vaccines. On the one hand, promising data from studies in the early stages of vaccine development looked positive. On the other hand, there were no authorised vaccines against a coronary virus, and several of the vaccine candidates are based on completely new technologies. To be reasonably sure that at least one of the vaccine candidates would succeed, the EU and its partners invested early in the development and production of a portfolio of different vaccine candidates. This has helped to produce a number of vaccines that are now approaching formal approval and to ensure large production volumes that will benefit both the European population and the rest of the world. Our relationship to EU agreements has ensured Norway's rapid access to approved vaccines. There is still much work to be done to ensure that vaccination can be carried out in a good way. The Public Health Institute was commissioned on 15 September to organise the necessary planning work to allow us to vaccinate the population against covid-19 when one or more vaccines were approved. The Institute for Public Health coordinated its work in cooperation with the National Agency for Medicinal Products, the Directorate for e-Health and the Directorate for Health. Health regions, KS, state administrators and other actors were involved as necessary. This work went on throughout the autumn. The Ministry has weekly meetings with the Institute for Public Health, the Directorate for Health, the National Medicines Agency and the Directorate for E-Health on vaccination to ensure that conditions that are not resolved or not well progressed are adequately addressed. Sub-projects shall be monitored more closely if necessary. The Public Health Institute delivered on the mission of 15 and 19 November. These deliveries provided a solid basis for government decision-making. On 12 October the Government decided that vaccination against covid-19 should be offered as part of the national vaccination programme. Vaccination is voluntary and free of charge for the individual. The aim of the Corona vaccination programme is to maintain health, reduce disruptions in society and protect the economy. Municipalities are responsible for organising the vaccination as they deem it most appropriate, in order to achieve the highest possible level of vaccination coverage. The main priority of the government in the work on vaccines is early vaccination of the entire population. In the initial phase, the availability of vaccines will be limited and there will therefore be a need to prioritise between groups. The entire population over 18 years of age will be offered a vaccine when we have a sufficient number of doses and the characteristics of the vaccine provide it, if there is a professional basis for recommending vaccination. These are the groups that are at increased risk of severe progression and death, which will benefit most from being protected against covid-19. The government has prioritised the very oldest and people in hospital early in the vaccination course. Thereafter, others over the age of 65 and persons between the ages of 18 and 64 with specific underlying diseases and conditions come. The oldest in the risk group have been severely affected by the measures to protect them from infection. It has led to more solitude. We hope that fewer visitor restrictions can be opened up as this group is vaccinated. I have now asked the Health Directorate to assess this. The order of priority may be adapted to the course of the pandemic, to the characteristics of the vaccines, to the level of infection in society and to the level of control and pressure on health care. Such adaptations have already been made to the priorities. About 20 pst. doses to municipalities can now be given to health professionals. In addition, hospitals receive enough doses to vaccinate 15 000 health professionals in January and February. This change has been made to prevent critical health professionals from becoming ill, thereby ensuring that treatment is available. The vaccination programme suggests that 75 pst. in the risk groups and healthcare professionals with patient contact and 50 pst. by the rest of the population will accept the supply of vaccines. Norwegian orders for vaccines through the EU also take into account a much higher level of participation. Fortunately, it seems that we can do this percentage – and well that. Now 83 pst is saying. that it is very likely or likely that they will accept the vaccine against covid-19. According to the Health Directorate's weekly studies, it's the oldest that's most positive. In this age group, 91 pst says. that they will take the vaccine. These numbers are very pleasing. We both hope and believe that accession will increase as knowledge of the vaccines reaches the population. Good information and transparency on the efficacy and adverse effects of vaccines are central to achieving high population disintegration. The studies also show that we have come up with the message that joint efforts are needed to bring the coronary apathy to life. The public health institute shall be responsible for the purchase of vaccines and shall cooperate with the distributor on a vaccine management and distribution plan. The plan shall ensure the correct vaccine at the appropriate site, at the appropriate time, in the appropriate quantity and quality. The Directorate for Health is responsible for ensuring that adequate vaccination equipment is available. There are now 11.4 million syringes and 14 million needles in stock, as well as other necessary equipment. The Health Directorate has purchased 615 refrigerated transport containers with a power-driven compressor to transport the Pfizer vaccine to the municipalities. Up to 3000 electronic temperature meters are purchased for use in containers and other storage units where vaccines are to be stored. The distribution and implementation of vaccination with the Pfizer vaccine must be planned in detail because the vaccine must be stored at minus 70 degrees and is only durable for five days at a refrigerator temperature if the ultra-cooling chain is broken. In the contract, the manufacturer Pfizer said that they would be responsible for the physical transport from their own factory up to the last stage of the ultra-cooling chain, i.e. to the health regions and hospitals. The vaccines will be repackaged and distributed to the municipalities. Hospital pharmacists have both the freezing capacity, the necessary permits and authorised personnel to do so. Other vaccines that do not need to be stored under special refrigeration conditions will be sent directly to the Institute for Public Health, which provides transport to the municipalities. The government commissioned the municipalities to make plans for the implementation of vaccination. The deadline was 18 December. The plans include the preparation before the receipt of the vaccine, the reception, storage and internal redistribution of the vaccines, the identification of risk groups and the convocation and implementation of the vaccination. Long-distance transport means that municipalities must have all equipment, personnel and vaccine recipients in place when delivery comes, so that vaccination is as effective as possible and avoids disappearance. This requires precise planning by each municipality. The State administrator had a deadline of 23 December to review the plans and follow-up of municipalities that needed advice and guidance. The State administrator has appointed coordinators to help ensure that all municipalities in the county have satisfactory vaccination plans against covid-19, and to provide information between the authorities and the municipalities. It is the municipalities themselves that are responsible for vaccinating their own inhabitants. Regulatory adaptations have been made to obligations and tariffs in order to facilitate participation of decision-makers in the vaccination work in the municipality. Health regions shall provide for the provision of vaccines against covid-19, mainly to their own health professionals, but also to some patients. The Public Health Institute draws up recommendations on which patients should be vaccinated in hospitals. In recent times, there has been a discussion of why vaccination seems to take longer to be carried out in Norway than in any other country. Vaccines from the two authorised and supplied to Norway so far consist of two doses. For the vaccine to be fully effective, dose 2 is set three and four weeks, respectively, after dose 1, or shortly thereafter. In order to ensure that a person who has received a dose of 1 receives a dose of 2 in a timely manner, this dose should be intermediateed – for example. in case of production problems. This means that initially we only set half of the doses we receive. Putting vaccines in a standby stock ensures that we have a buffer in case there are problems with production or distribution. This is also the case in many other European countries. The size of this buffer may be adjusted as deemed necessary. The manufacturer of the Moderna vaccine recommends that we love half of the doses we receive. Thanks to the emergency storage facility, the dispatch of vaccines in Norway will go as planned despite Pfizer reporting on Friday 15 January that Norway will have reduced vaccine deliveries for a period to come. Some countries have so much infection pressure that they want to provide as many as possible with some protection as quickly as possible. They believe that it is better that many have some protection than that a few have full protection. The first dose is likely to provide some protection for a certain period of time, but these countries take a risk by choosing such a strategy when dose 2 cannot be set within the recommended period of time. Neither manufacturers nor European health authorities recommend such a procedure. As long as there is a shortage of vaccines, these countries will also have to go down to the vaccine rate for dose 1 when new deliveries only reach to set dose 2. Therefore, if the countries do not significantly postpone dose 2, the rate of vaccination of the population will be balanced among EU countries. Some countries have chosen to apply an emergency procedure for the faster authorisation of vaccines and have thus been able to start vaccination earlier. Norway, together with the EU countries, has chosen to follow the agreed approval plan in order to ensure that the efficacy, safety and quality of the vaccines have been carefully assessed. In Norway, we have chosen to distribute the vaccine equally to all municipalities. Because we have a short time for vaccination when the cooling chain is interrupted, we have to make sure that the municipalities are ready to accept the vaccine before it is dispatched. In particular, we have to expect that the vaccination will take longer. However, we expect that we will quickly resume any follow-up, and that it will be the delivery of vaccines to Norway that determines how quickly we will be able to vaccine. The European Medicines Agency has accepted an application from Pfizer that the vials contain six doses and not five doses. In practice, this could increase the number of doses available from this manufacturer by 20 pst. The vaccines delivered to Norway protect against covid-19 disease. We don't know now whether the vaccines also protect the vaccinated person from infecting others. If the vaccine also protects against infecting others, it could affect the future prioritisation of the vaccine. For example, it will. be able to give priority to high-pressure areas. We're closely following this forward. Some have suggested that Norway should enter into direct agreements with producers, in addition to what we get through EU cooperation, in order to speed up the vaccination of the population. As we know, the production capacity of manufacturers is fully exploited. In addition to what we have already agreed, if Norway were to ensure further supply of the vaccine, it is likely that vaccines will come to Norway after we have completed all the Nordics who want to do so. If not, we may have to try to get purchased vaccines that have already been agreed to be delivered to other countries. Fortunately, the pharmaceutical industry does not want the vaccines to be sold in such a raw market, on the contrary. My impression is that industry has taken a great deal of social responsibility in terms of both price and distribution of vaccines to countries. Measures to ensure good flow of information related to who has received the vaccine, what the vaccine is and any side effects are being worked on continuously. Electronic registration in the national vaccination register SYSVAK will contribute to the rapid updating of important data. A portal is established that can be used by those who do not have an integration between the electronic patient file and SYSVAK. Unfortunately, we must be prepared for rare side effects to occur when the vaccine is used on a large scale, even if it has been tested and authorised for use. The Public Health Institute recommends that the benefits and disadvantages of vaccination be carefully assessed for patients with very short life expectancy. In Norwegian nursing homes it dies normally 300 to 400 people a week. It is therefore expected that some will die immediately after they have been vaccinated, without necessarily any relationship between the death and the vaccine. In any case, this is reported and reviewed in line with established procedures. During vaccination, measures must be maintained and continuously adapted to the situation of infection and vaccination carried out. The disease situation may change if we are unable to follow the measures taken to prevent infection or if a significantly altered virus is spreading in Norway. We now hope that a large proportion of the risk groups will be vaccinated around Easter times. Once the risk groups have been vaccinated, we can expect that fewer people will be seriously ill and that the risk of overfilling intensive care units may be slightly reduced. The infection pressure is likely to be lower, but the pandemic will still have the power to get out of control. We can probably start to implement some measures. If everything goes as we hope, we think we can offer vaccine to everyone over 18 to summer. We think that would mean about 70 pst. of all adults would have accepted the vaccine. At best, this could happen in June. Although vaccination has been offered to all adults, local outbreaks, particularly in unvaccinated cases, may still occur. Mainly, such outbreaks will have less serious consequences, but serious illness, hospitalisation at the intensive care centre and death could still occur. We will continue to monitor the infected image and outbreaks. The vaccination programme will also continue. Once the vaccination programme has come sufficiently far, we will be able to take the most radical measures, but we will need to be prepared for new measures where necessary. The most durable measure will be that people with symptoms stay at home and can be tested. The same applies to good coughing and hand hygiene. This also helps against other infectious diseases. As the Prime Minister just said, we see light in the tunnel. But it's a good time for us to relax. On the contrary, it is absolutely necessary that we continue to follow the code of infection, stay away, stay at home if we get sick, and keep our hands clean. Vaccination is in progress and must not be delayed. What could delay the vaccination is just a high level of infection, so we still have to endure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e443	The President will now, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 45, open a brief comment round, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and final statements from the Prime Minister and the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e448	I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health for the presentations here today. We're in a long run. We have to be persevering, and we have to stick together. We'll take that with us. We see that this crisis, like other crises, is suffering unfairly. Those who are hit hardest are the ones who had it most difficult from before. Even more often, I hear people say: this is not a good thing, the problems and the loads are extremely distorted. I noticed that the Prime Minister didn't call it hard, but he called it a thank-you. The power ceiling is also affected unfairly. There is a difference between losing a job and having a home office. There is a difference between living in a family and living alone when there are strict social restrictions. There is a difference between having home school with parents at home as teachers and having home school with parents who beat. Some, probably too many, suffer in our country. Save the Children reports that one in six children experienced violence or assault during the shutdown in March. We can't live with that. When the crisis strikes unfairly, crisis policy must be fair. It was in March last year, and now it is. There is still an urgent need for policies that save jobs, provide workers with income and provide vulnerable groups and that last for as long as the crisis lasts. When the curtailment came after the second wave of infection in the autumn, there was no compensation scheme for vulnerable holdings. It's only in place from today. The Labour Party has used every opportunity to work for better and fairer solutions. We succeeded in this – from better permitting arrangements to the rescue package for the supplier industry. From the fall, the government has applied for a majority with the Support Party Progress Party. They must jointly bear the responsibility for the excessive burden on many enterprises and for cancelling the right to holiday pay for those on leave or for the fact that companies receiving Community support must refrain from cancelling people and taking dividends. Nevertheless, there is a majority at Stortinget who say that the government's policy does not hold. Despite the expressed opposition from the Prime Minister, the government chose to extend the period of leave and to continue the daily allowance rate that provides them with a low wage, a little more to walk with. We must also do everything in our power to prevent the coronary crisis from creating new health crises in Norway. Special attention must be paid to our young people. Rapporteurs from all over the country tell of a dramatic increase in the number of young adults who are out of work, without studies, and with less confidence for every day that goes. This is not just about them, it must be about us all. We can't live with a lost corona generation. It is essential that young people are able to carry out kindergarten, schooling and studies as normal as possible. This is about low-threshold offers for young people. This is about securing the income of parents who are out of the labour market, sports and leisure clubs, and at the bottom of a local economy that can make this possible. It's about better support for the front line that's the municipalities. 59 local authorities wrote letters that they were not seen, did not receive the follow-up and the support they should have. We can't have it that way. Be safe – The Labour Party supports the government’s action against the infection and assumes that good judgement is at stake, but we must agree that Norway is long-term. The infectious situation in municipalities varies. The conclusion of the measures depends on our being together about them, but the degree of closure must also correspond to the local situation of infection. That's what it's all about. It's about implementation. Firstly, the government must have control of the import virus. Here we've been on arrears from people going straight out of the planes from Italy in March, right up to when the government counterproductively introduced mandatory testing at the border. We are told of obvious weaknesses in the implementation, burst capacity, many dropping tests, and lack of overview of who is not testing. It is common people, vulnerable groups, businesses and workers who pay the price of very interventional measures. It is unacceptable then that the government will not be able to ensure proper control of this import agent. Secondly, we expect the rate of vaccination to be increased markedly, as other countries seem to be doing. In addition to the sick and vulnerable, we expect those in the first line — health professionals, teachers and school staff — to be given priority in the first round. In the meantime, we have to work every day to provide support for all those in our country who are now struggling. We in this room have to do everything we can to show that we see them, that they have us in their backs, and that no one should stand alone at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e469	It's almost a year since the coronary apathy came to Norway. For many it has been a tough year, whether they have lost some of their loved ones, or they themselves have been hospitalized and treated. We have all felt the consequences of Norway's shutting down. Some have felt it more than others, especially those who have experienced solitude, and those who have been trained or unemployed. Many, most of them, have had plans cancelled or postponed. Although the government has given priority to protecting children and young people, these have also changed their daily lives, whether they are home schooling or cancelling leisure activities. The restrictions have been the most invasive since World War II. For the Right, it's a long way to limit people's freedom. Our view of value is based on politicians getting the least involved in people's everyday lives. But since March last year, we've mixed up a lot. It's easy to understand that people can get frustrated and tired of restrictions. As a businessman, it is hard to feel that you have to keep it closed, while the costs run. As a student it can be sad to sit alone on a hybel and not get to participate in social gatherings, and as a musician or sportsman it is sought not to be able to play for a large audience. But we're in the middle of a pandemic. The question is: how would it have been if Norway had not shut down? How would everyday life be without restrictions? Probably many thousand had died, and thousands of people had been hospitalized. The health system would be overburdened, and many companies had a high level of sick leave. It had become anything but a normal situation. For the right, it is important that Norway presents good packages of measures to those affected, and it has been important for them to take action where they work best. We never have a guarantee of that, and we have to be humble that all the measures may not have taken as well. We will not get a final answer to this before later, but we know that Norway is one of the countries in the world that has proven best through this difficult time. It applies both in the fight against infection and in the economy. The Norwegian people have taken responsibility and have been united. The trust between people and authorities has been great. Goods – or power roof – have worked. Right wants a good and open relationship with the other parties on the Stortinget. It's important that we stand together on the big challenge. It is the government's task to propose measures, but it is also the government's task to listen to the recordings of the Stortinget. This will make the measures more effective. When the pandemic hit Norway, we showed that we could find one another when a crisis threatens. I want to thank the Stortinget once again for a good cooperation so far, and I want to be clear that we want good and open cooperation in the future as well. There will still be a need for good support schemes and measures, so that we get people and businesses through that tough time. There will still be a need for restrictions. The pandemic is by no means over. At the same time, we have to start preparing for the time after the pandemic. Then the Storting must also return to a normal state. The high use of money cannot continue. It creates a pressure on the economy, and then we use the money that we've saved for the next generation. After the pandemic, the money has to go down. This year will be about two things in particular: dealing with the pandemic and getting Norway back to work. It's amazing that after a year with the pandemic, we're already in the process of mass vaccination of the Norwegian people. It shows the importance of focusing on knowledge, research and international cooperation. There are still some tough months ahead of us. The disease situation can turn quickly, and we're hardly back to a normal state until early summer. But we're going to get through this together, and I'm inviting from the Right to good cooperation in Stortinget in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e486	Let me also thank you for two thorough explanations. I am also taking note of the fact that today the government is briefing on adjusted measures to prevent infection, but I still need to say that there are considerable differences between municipalities in terms of where there are large and smaller outbreaks of infection. There are places where there isn't at all. The question is whether the national intervention is in such a situation, because this is also about having understanding and respect for them, and I feel that there is an increasing debate in society now about some of the national measures, such as gift control, which have quite a bearing on local restaurants, etc. I missed the Prime Minister's focus on a reopening strategy. I have on several occasions signaled that I had hoped that the Prime Minister would focus a little more on it. To the extent that it has been mentioned, what both the Prime Minister and Trond Helleland just referred to is in terms of money use. But there are many other things we're going to be considerably more concerned about when we're going to discuss how we're going to reopen society. Maybe it's all about getting people back to work. I missed that focus and hope we can get closer to it in the debate tomorrow. A reopening strategy is also linked to the vaccine strategy. The Minister of Health was concerned that there is a broad disintegration in the population about getting vaccinated. That's probably true, but at the same time, it's a falling trust in the government's vaccine strategy. A recent study has been carried out to show that more and more of us — the inhabitants of this country — do not trust that the government strategy to vaccine the population is good enough. I have also allowed myself to criticise it – I believe it is too slow. I would like to ask the government to speed up vaccination, simply because there is a natural connection between how many we are able to vaccine, how fast, and the possibility of gradually returning to a more normal society. I am pleased that the government has finally found out that a test regime must be implemented at the border crossing points. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has already put forward proposals for this in August. We were then met at times with ridicule from the government. What was ridiculed in August has now proved to be the government's recommended policy. It's provocative for a lot of people in this society who follow the restrictions that are imposed on us, to experience from it is the import infection that helps us to stay in the situation we're doing now for too long. Many are provoked, and we still hear quite adorable stories from the main airports and other border crossings about a total lack of control or guidance for people who cross borders and who are unable to follow up afterwards in order to ensure that they actually take the necessary tests and report whether they might be infected or put in the necessary quarantine. The Prime Minister said the financial measures are working. Yes, they do, but it's not thanks to the government – it's despite the government. At each crossroad where financial measures have been put forward, the Stortinget has had to step in and strengthen and improve financial measures. The government has been de facto all the way back. They have also adopted a far-over optimistic tone in terms of the duration of the measures, while at the same time introducing new interventional measures at regular intervals. In my opinion, there must be a link between the intervention measures and the financial instruments, and we must be able to adjust them quickly in line with any new intervention measures. That is why we are now signaling that we will be making proposals tomorrow on new financial measures. It's not because we were dissatisfied with the consensus we had in Stortingen before Christmas, but because there have been new interventions that require new economic instruments from Stortinget. We will come back to this in the debate tomorrow, with both our proposals for consideration in the Chamber and, of course, questions to the government based on the statements today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e507	I will also be allowed to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health for the presentations, because it is important – for older people who are not allowed to meet their relatives, not in three months, but in and out of 2020, and now also from the beginning of 2021, for young people who feel that life is passing them while they are inside and looking at, and for workers who have lost their jobs and thus both income and security. Most of us understand that it must be like that, and it is possible that we are in a marathon, and that we are now seeing the beginning of the end of this situation, but we should be very aware that fatigue over the measures may be one of our greatest challenges in the future. Vaccination is going to be slow at first. We don't have a mass vaccination now, as the representative of Greece says. In January and February there will be very few doses of vaccine, but then the government assures us that from March onwards there will be more than enough vaccine doses for use. The more important it is that it happens during the spring. The Minister of Health has now assured us that the entire adult population will be vaccinated by the summer. It's incredibly important that there's a promise being made. That is why it is also critical, and a big question, how the government will organise that work from March to June, so that we actually fulfill the promise that the entire adult population in Norway has been vaccinated. I believe that the plan for that is critical, and also to make the Norwegian society endure the measures ahead. There must be a clear and concise plan for that mass vaccination, and there must be full openness around it, both to the people and to the municipalities that are to carry it out, and to the Storting. If one is unable to get a plan for rapid mass vaccination between March and June, I am afraid that the danger of the dam failing increases, that people are running out of action, and that one will no longer be involved in the necessary force measures, as the Prime Minister said. That's why it's so critical. For people have been good in Norway; all, most have loyally followed up. The great loyalty of people in this country is also one of the reasons why the Senter Party is critical of law enforcement. That's a bad solution. It's way over 90 pst. of us who independently follow up the advice we get from the government. We can't get into a situation where, as a society, we punish the many to get the few. That's what can happen through a port ban, and it's an unnatural system in a society like the Norwegian. The centre lot now records that the government will introduce mandatory border controls, and with the reasons given by the government, the centre party considers this to be reasonable. We will nevertheless point out that the most important thing is that quarantine is carried out, and that is justified when the Prime Minister highlights that 25 pst. of the negative tests in Iceland turned out to be positive after four to five days. So testing out of quarantine is absolutely no solution, and it's also said the Center Party. In order for quarantine to be complied with, there must also be few, simple and conceptual rules. The financial measures will be more likely to come back tomorrow, but let me mention a few key words. The pressure from Stortinget works. Now the government has bent off and extended the permit access, and they have extended the compensation scheme. That's good, but the centre party is concerned that the unemployment is now increasing, and that the uncertainty is too high for many workers around the country, and we're worried that the financial arrangements are rigged so that there are some big businesses that get a very large share of the compensation. According to a new survey from Norway's Higher Education School, five large enterprises have received as much as 27,000 others. Then we also have some businesses that fall completely between two chairs, and then there are especially three groups that concern us in the Center Party. It is the self-employed, it is the start-up enterprises that have made large investments, but have not had very high turnover in 2019, and it is businesses that are not entirely organised commercially, but via forms of organisation other than an AS. Very many of those who are now in a difficult economic situation feel that they are carrying a burden because of the big society, and they do. They also need good measures, transparency, long-termity and predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e528	It is gratifying that people's efforts are beneficial, and that some measures can now be announced. It is not gratifying that the Prime Minister has so little new to come to the unemployed, and that social injustice, which is now so clearly a major and important part of the crisis we are going through, is not a topic in the presentation. It is as many people have been about, still such – and the picture has been reinforced today – that there is a government that is dealing with unemployment and the increasing disparities and that must be constantly pushed by the opposition to put in place the measures that work. When the Prime Minister in his presentation today asked them to take on new job opportunities when they arise, this is precisely the challenge for many. In Trysil, where unemployment is 10 pst., there are not many job opportunities that arise. For hotel workers and those in canteens who are now experiencing redundancies, even though their employers have received large sums of state aid for crisis relief, it is not just to seize the opportunities when they arise. I think a lot of people want the government to seize the opportunity to act more clearly in order for people to have a job. SV will have a more vigorous effort to prevent unemployment, through a better compensation system, a more vigorous effort to support the unemployed, including the unemployed. through further reinforcements of the day-to-day pay rules and a proper student crisis package. And we want a more powerful effort for social justice. These are those who need an extension of redundancy benefits, those who receive housing support, and not least the requirement for holiday pay for the unemployed. Let me also call on the Prime Minister: Since we are accustomed to making demands in this country – fair enough – for those who receive support from the state, for example. People who become unemployed, sick or insured should also be asked to make more demands on the large companies that are now receiving crisis support, which SV is totally in favour of. A reasonable requirement then is that when a permit is an alternative, those receiving a crisis aid shall also commit themselves to zero terminations during the period. The Prime Minister has explained some changes in the infectious diseases control measures. The size is not really invited to believe anything about them, because sometimes we are informed, and sometimes we are not informed. But let me say that we are happy with everything that can be solved in terms of children and young people, that needs to be further prioritised. We also want to encourage the government to look at the different regions. I think it is important for credibility and confidence in the measures that, as far as possible, one looks at the possibility of doing different things in different parts of the country if the infection situation is very different. Trust is the key to Norway managing the pandemic so well, the great trust between people and between people and authorities. That is why the ban on ports is an unhealthy solution. I would urge the Prime Minister to draw that proposal and not promote it for the Storting. I think we'd rather build on what's been the strategy facing this pandemic, and as we've seen, the people's willingness to stand up. If the government proposes a port ban, SV will vote against it. Finally, on the international situation: the Minister of Health boasted of the willingness of the major pharmaceutical companies to accept social responsibility. Let me just remind you of what the WHO Secretary-General says today: He says that the world is on the brink of a moral disaster in connection with the distribution of the corona vaccine. COVAX is not a sufficient solution, so we have to take up the discussion SV travelled in the Storting before Christmas. To enable the poor population in the world to be vaccinated quickly enough, poor countries need to be able to produce vaccines themselves. Then something has to be done about the patent regime that prevents them from doing so. Norway has been on the wrong side until now, and Norway must now turn around and play a different role.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e545	Thank you to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health for thorough and reassuring briefings. There is little doubt that Norway as a nation and community in large measure has handled the coronary crisis very well. Most importantly, we are one of the least infected countries, with a health care system that has had the capacity to receive those who have been seriously ill. Economically, there has also been better than fear. It wasn't, of course, and it hasn't done itself. This includes government, growth, ordinary people, businesses, business, sport, cultural sector, organisations, voluntary sector and not forgetting state budgets, health services and municipalities. The way in which society and community have set themselves up for each other, showing patience and solidarity and accepting the restrictions, shows something of the quality of Norway and Norwegian democracy. Even in times of crisis, it is a privilege and a grateful task to be responsible politicians in a society where the trust between the government and the people is so great. But – and it is, as the Prime Minister stresses, unfortunately a great «but»: When we are now, hopefully, approaching the rise page, the situation may still come out of control. Nor is there any doubt that the parts of the Stortinget can both strengthen and weaken this decisive trust, not least at a time when many naturally notice wear problems very well. When the opposition party calls for Norway to buy, soak in the vaccine queue, insolvent and raw, what is the real risk of achieving with that? That people think it's both possible and sensible, despite the extensive work Norway has done to ensure that not only do we get enough vaccines, but that we have also contributed heavily to the record-breaking development of vaccines. This is also a risk of weakening the decision-making, but it is a threat to our confidence in Norway. It in turn makes it harder to have legitimacy and freedom to continue to take the necessary measures, not only to deal with this pandemic, but perhaps also future crises. The fact that the government now feels it makes sense to facilitate further measures aimed at children and young people is a pleasure. Although there is a coronary crisis, the Left has held that as far as possible children must be able to be children, to play, learn and develop in interaction with other children and adults. It is a stature and a goal that the government fully shares, and that the government – with the Minister of Knowledge and Integration and party leaders at the head of Left Guri Melby – has gone far to facilitate, in close cooperation with and with the impressive efforts of the individual schools, kindergartens, teachers and kindergartens. Even though we are in the middle of a pandemic, I see with great joy that the grandchildren living in Ulvik live almost normal, carefree and free lives. Nevertheless, we must be aware that the coronary crisis has made life more difficult for many children and young people, not least for the larger children and young people. Russetiden was not supposed to be. For the students, everyday life is turned upside down. Social association on a Wednesday is replaced by digital home education. A new exciting presence in Bergen is replaced by the good or the girls' room at home in Hardanger. Football training with friends has been replaced with homecoming with parents. Youth, which is to find itself and build its identity, has no freedom and ability to unfold and explore. We therefore need to pay extra attention to them when the government brings up-to-date measures. The left is also very pleased that the Prime Minister, naturally, announces that several measures aimed at business are right around the corner. Several industries wear very heavy, and will wear off for a while yet: travel life, outdoors, cultural and event industries. Let there be no doubt about it: the left is clear that as long as there is a need for state intervention to help industry through the crisis, the state should set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e562	I want to start by thanking the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health for the presentations, and for being open to the Stortinget and the Norwegian people about the situation. That's good leadership. We all hope that the pandemic will end soon. Patience is put to the test, and there are many who sacrifice a lot. The human sides of this pandemic are obvious and visible. There are many who have to bear a huge cost. I am thinking in particular of everyone who is at risk of losing their job and their income base. I also think of everyone who experiences loneliness and different forms of mental stress as a result of all the restrictions. It's a high cost. The main task of the government now is to get the country through this crisis in a way that saves lives, that ensures the jobs of people, and that contributes to the viability of the business being there when we get out of the crisis. We must live in a safe and good country even when this crisis is over. People need a job to go to, a health care service that's there for us, a good care for the elderly, and we're going to have a society that gives children and young people a safe upbringing. In the current situation, it is an important state task to contribute to the fact that we have a society that sees the individual's needs, even after this crisis is over. When I hear the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health today, there is no doubt that we are still in a serious situation. Strict, interventional measures are still needed to control the infection. And as a consequence, of course, we also need to keep the pressure on the measures to keep society going. So we're spending billions of dollars on different schemes for both employees and businesses, and that's still absolutely necessary. In the midst of this crisis, I am proud that we have a government that leads the country in a steady way and that takes active leadership. It is clear to everyone that the government is constantly assessing and demonstrating its willingness to adjust measures along the way, as needed. There is an openness from this government that many other countries can envy us. I have said this from this chair before, and I would like to repeat it: Norway is a trust society, but trust must be maintained. Therefore, it is so important that prohibitions and injunctions are not the only solution, but that the authorities at the same time provide advice and guidance and appeal to personal responsibility. Here this government is exemplary. It is a great responsibility to manage such trust. I believe afterwards will show that this government has led the country safely through this phase, and that the measures that were taken helped to save lives and strengthen the basis for having a robust and inclusive welfare society even in the post-crisis period. We must also look beyond the borders of the country. International work on vaccines is the key to success. Vaccination cannot just be a programme for the rich countries – we have a responsibility. Of course, it's about solidarity and justice in a pandemic that affects us all, but it's also about all countries being affected by each other. The social and economic crisis that has come as a consequence of the health crisis and the measures taken has enormous consequences. Rich countries need to invest in and contribute to faster control of the pandemic also in poor countries. It is about showing solidarity in a global crisis situation. Norway must also play a role here. At the same time, we need to contribute internationally to building more effective systems to detect virus outbreaks, and we need to use this crisis to learn how to improve mechanisms and preparedness in the face of new hazards in the future. There will probably be a further debate, including tomorrow, on the various measures. It is a debate that the Stortinget should take. I am pleased that we now have a government that dares to take tough action when necessary, but also makes the necessary adjustments to employee and business arrangements to guide the country safely through this crisis and prepare countries and people for the life that comes after.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e586	I would also like to start by thanking for the presentations and not least thanking those who are making an extraordinary effort to get our society to go around – health professionals, teachers, care workers, all those who work hard to follow the rules on infectious diseases. We have worked well as a society, but many are worn out and are gradually wearing a strong imprint of a pandemic that prevents us from living normally – meeting, hugging and seeing each other. In addition, thousands of people have no income, as they had a few months ago. Someone, like me, is lucky: we have a family that sticks together, we have colleagues on the Internet and an ake tray right outside the door where my three-year-old could ake this weekend. For others, and unfortunately very many, loneliness and uncertainty are now extremely burdensome. Many have moved from home to a new city. Some are at risk and must be isolated, others have lost job and income. And too many people experience increased domestic violence. It cannot be stressed enough: as a society, we must do everything we can to ensure that the disease prevention measures do not evolve into a new epidemic of mental illness. The government has said that children and young people should be given priority, and I am relieved of some of the measures that have hit children most, being facilitated today. Many of the most affected young people are no longer children. We know that those between 16 and 24 years of age are those who have felt most lonely during the coronary crisis. According to a study by the Red Cross from December, more than half of this age group responded that they are lonely. For the whole population, one in three respond the same way. Students even report more solitude than the group permitted. Numbers from the Institute of Public Health, including from December, show the same thing. The proportion that feels lonely is highest among those between 18 and 24 years of age, especially in Oslo and Bergen, where the coronary measures have been the most severe. There are almost twice as many older people over the age of 75 who report solitude. We don't have to set up groups against each other, but we have to realize that young people in high school and in student age are particularly vulnerable. They were already vulnerable to mental illness, and are now missing out on important milestones in their lives because of infectious diseases. Many have lost their Russian time, many would get their first job, but are now part of the growing group of young unemployed. For many, the first year of study was going to be more tears than curiosity, laughter or learning. Nevertheless, the government has spent 400 million. DKK for measures to combat solitude among the elderly, but only 10 million. on measures to combat solitude among students. Where will it be from the student crisis package? We in the Greens were praying in the autumn for an extra billion to this group, which stands out from more common well-being. A minimum now is that the government comes with an extra grant to compensate those who have lost their part-time job, that one introduces the right to a day’s allowance for newly educated people who do not get into work, and that one strengthens the mental health provision for the students. What actions we're implementing, and how we balance with countermeasures, shape the society we're going to have the day we've managed to put the pandemic behind us. Today, more new measures are coming, such as Christmas Eve, not only on us who make up the Biggest, but also for most people. Obviously, a pandemic is unpredictable, but the more important it is that the government sometimes manages to jump off the hamster wheel and say something about where we're going to be in six months or a year. Are we a Norway with increased anxiety and depression because so many were not heard when they announced loneliness and a difficult economic situation? Are we a Norway with increasing differences because we were unable to secure the welfare systems that prevent poverty from being reinforced, nor did we give priority to action against the Nordics with a migrant background? And are we a Norway with increased oil dependence, or are we a society with more safe and sustainable jobs than we had before the Corona crisis? We know that a number of other European countries have imposed climate change requirements for granting compensation during the coronary crisis. In the reverse country of Norway, the oil tax package in spring led to an increase in oil investment in the pandemic year 2020, while enterprises by enterprises offering culture, experiences and communities throughout the country have been offered miserable and delayed compensation schemes. To me, it's not clear which direction the government is now trying to control society in, in a time of crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e616	It's nice to talk about hard work, but it's not good when the government cuts daily money and holiday money for the unemployed, while the billionaires get new cuts in wealth tax as corona measures. Nor is it enough when most people follow strict infectious control rules, while the government facilitates employers to import infectious diseases through the continued use of underpaid labour from other countries. Nor is it enough when the government assesses the port ban while releasing 3,000 soldiers into the country for the winter exercise Joint Viking. The head of defense can't guarantee that the soldiers won't infect each other or anyone else, and he's also concerned that the infection will burden the civil health system, because it's the ones that analyze corona tests. The municipal doctor in Berlevåg warns against unnecessary risk of import infection and mutated virus during this winter exercise and says: "We have always said that we must protect the health system from the infection. by carrying out this exercise, I believe we are doing the opposite." [[...]] Now the government has to show that they care more about the health of the population than about the training needs of NATO powers. If you don't want to catch up with the big guy. In March, we met the corona pandemic with measures to strengthen the social security network. But as soon as the government got the chance, they terminated the arrangements for the unemployed – one by one. Several thousand recipients of daily allowances and redundancy payments lose money because the government did not extend the maximum period. Now the government finally has, after strong pressure from, among other things. Red, extended maximum daily allowance and period of leave. It's good, but it's too little, and it's too late. The extension of these measures to 1 July means that a small group will be entitled to a day-care allowance, but the large majority will not receive a krone in the coming summer of months for which they were unemployed in 2020. The government must extend these measures until 1 October and ensure a minimum of financial security for all unemployed persons through the summer. All measures for the unemployed from March must be reinstated as soon as possible, and they must last as long as the crisis and unemployment require. It is urgent to ensure that the persons on leave can take on several guards without losing their daily allowance. Today the limit is 50 pst. It wants Red to increase to 80 pst. Then we will warn against new cuts during the employer's period by leaving without a compensation scheme, because it is sending the bill for the crisis to the workers. It is unreasonable that Norway should be shut down while we do not stop imports. The government has responded to pressure from employers first by reducing the quarantine rules and then by testing and quarantine requirements that have been too easy to escape. Last week, the NRK told about employers who are pushing for breaches of the quarantine rules. Therefore I will challenge Erna Solberg on the following: Firstly, with the confirmation that the employer ensures a bopel, you can avoid a quarantine hotel. Then it will be tempting for the unprofessional employers to order workers to work. Does Solberg see that this derogation should be removed or tightened up? Secondly, those who are underpaid and coming to the country often live in straits and many together and infect each other and others. Does Solberg see that the rule for who can stay in a home instead of a quarantine hotel should apply only to those who live alone or with the family, and that this must be documented? It is quite right, as Solberg points out, that Norway is dependent on labour from other countries, but that is because of a policy that has made us more dependent. We could, for example, has a fisheries policy that has given communities several full-year jobs, and we could have replaced the unprofessional manning industry with the lending of skilled workers between manufacturing companies and become less vulnerable and less dependent on imports of labour from poorer countries. The vaccine may stop the infection, but a new majority is needed to change the policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e642	The President makes it clear that the style we have in Stortinget is that we are addressing the Prime Minister as just the ‘Minister of State’, just so it is said.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e647	I would like to thank you for the positive feedback and for a good discussion. It is good to hear that the Storting, in line with the government, is concerned with all the negative consequences both of the pandemic and of the measures against the pandemic. That's the challenge we're all going to face in the next six months, in a situation where we probably have to be prepared for having stricter national measures than what we experienced at the lowest level in summer and harvest, especially. because of the risk associated with the mutated virus. We know a lot about the negative consequences of the different measures, but it's always very difficult to know how the different measures work on the infection situation, and the only thing we have to try all the way is to have some of the measures that work enough, without them hitting unnecessarily. We're going to be in that balance together throughout the pandemic. I just want to comment on some different relationships beyond that. The government has a vaccination strategy and plan. Each plan from the municipalities was approved before Christmas. It implies that there is both a national plan and a local plan, which was requested by the Centre Party. But it is also the case that the plan and our strategy must be dynamic and be able to change in line with changes in both the infectious situation, the availability of vaccine and the knowledge of the effectiveness of the vaccine. We're going to have a strategy that can change, and we've already shown it to change, for example. health professionals at the Rome Christmas were given a higher priority as a result of the infection situation, i.e. an adjustment. I must stress that I am a little surprised that the Workers' Party has concluded that teachers should be given priority in the first round of the vaccination, because this will mean that teachers must be given priority in front of people who have a serious risk of getting sick and dying from covid-19, and in front or on the same line as health professionals who are in the first line in meeting those who are infected. Then I would like to comment on the comment of the representative, Siv Jensen, who said that we ridiculed the proposal of the Progress Party for mandatory testing at the border. That's a description I don't quite know about. We have always said that we are open to considering that proposal, but we also need to have good professional judgements. When Stortinget dealt with that proposal before Christmas, I answered: ‘I therefore believe that the Storting should not adopt this now. Then, new knowledge or new test methods may change the evaluations.’ Before I said that, I had explained what was the Health Directorate's assessment of the proposal. Many people rightly point out that it may be a challenge for people to live with strict measures while at the same time having a major debate on import infection. It is also worth recalling that Norway is the country in Europe that has consistently been at the top in terms of strict measures against import infection, but we have been in the middle of the tree in terms of national measures, so it is not a picture that is quite correct in comparison with other countries. Then the representative said Marit Arnstad that in my post I had assured that all adults who wanted to do so would have been vaccinated for the summer. Those are words that are put in my mouth. I have said that if everything goes according to plan, it is our hope. However, there are also uncertainties related to it, there are unapproved vaccines that have to be approved and production and distribution have to go as planned. That's what we work for and we all want, and I see that very many other countries in Europe express the same thing, but it's not the same thing as having promised that this will happen, or assured it. Until then, there is still too much uncertainty. Then I will end by saying that I look forward to further debate tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e669	As the Minister for Health concluded, we are going to have a longer debate tomorrow. I just want to make some comments on the posts and in particular on the situation. I think one of the most important things to realize is that what we're up in is creating a lot of dilemmas and some difficult choices we have to make. It's important not to be sloppy, on one side or the other, whether you're right at the time you do the action, whether you're a little too early or a little late. We've tried to find a balance point between what's proportional and what's getting on early. There are some choices you always have to make: The priority given to those who will receive vaccines is that priority should be given to others. The prioritisation system was established on the basis of the advice provided by the Ethical Committee established by the Institute for Public Health. It has mainly been followed, based on the priorities that came from the Public Health Institute to the Health Directorate, and then some adjustments have been made for health professionals because the infection is slightly higher now than it was at the time. Of course, you might think something else about it, but then there's someone else you think is less necessary to give the vaccine to right now – if you're going to lift other groups. We have dilemmas about how fast we need to inform. We have been criticised that we were too late for action, or that there was too little detailed information given to those who are going to implement further down, for example. in the municipalities, when we came up with measures. Well, we've been trying to explain what I've been feeling about the Storting in the last year: that we're going to inform as quickly as we've made decisions, and that we're not going to sit and wait with our decisions until we've created a streamlined system that can accept it. Then we know that it takes a little longer. I think that's right, but it's also true that it can take a little longer before it's completely in place. Of course, we also have some other important dilemmas. Should we have national or local measures? The government made up for the most local measures throughout the harvest, and it has worked in very many situations. But what we saw before Christmas was that there were far more local blooms, and in many new places. I showed in my presentation to Trondheim, where, at the beginning of December, one did not want to have the restriction that was at the time on the gift rules, and Trondheim went from being the lowest in Norway on the statistics on the spread of infection to being the highest in less than a month. And that was before we got the new virus mutations. This is a little bit of the dilemma we're in right now. Now we have to be aware that we have viral mutations that can infect much, much faster, and therefore much faster can reverse this situation. We have had a hospital that has been closed during the pandemic. It was in Hammerfest – because it was widespread in an area that had not previously had a special spread at all. That is also why we choose to say that we may need some national measures – because the situation is more fragile at the moment. So it's wanted us to have a reopening strategy. I'd say the government has. It's called "creature more and include more". It lies as a basis from our Phase 3 proposals last year, through the state budget we presented to the Stortinget, where our main focus has been that we should also use this period for the transition towards greening, smarter and more innovative, and to ensure more jobs and that more people can come back to work. It's a reopening strategy. If, with a reopening strategy, you think it's going to say how to step down the measures, I'd say it's not possible. It's not possible in the situation we see around us. If we look at Ireland, which has opened up in Christmas, and now has the strongest measures and the highest rates of infection, we see why it's not possible. Right now we're on a fragile edge because the virus has changed, and we're working on pushing forward every week to prevent this virus and the mutated forms coming to Norway, because then we'll have control, fewer will get sick, and fewer will die – if we can push that time out – and then we have to hold back. Then I want to stress what Marit Arnstad said, that it is quarantine that is most important in the context of import infection. We have consistently had among the most stringent measures in Europe on imports. Testing out isn't an answer, but it gives us better control in today's situation, in the face of a mutated virus, that we're testing while we're maintaining quarantine in the future. Then I'm absolutely sure we're going to have a good discussion tomorrow. I just want to remind you that we can experience that the world is changing in a very short time right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e694	That concludes the comment round. The President will propose that the Prime Minister’s statement on the handling of the coronary apathy and the statement by the Minister of Health and Care on the status of the vaccine work be taken to consideration in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e712	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e719	There is a joint committee which supports the setting up of this case on «Changes to the temporary law on restrictions on the entry of non-residents for reasons of public health». The proposition contains proposals for a new residence in the temporary law on: restrictions on the entry of non-residents for public health concerns in order to pass on a negative covid-19 test for the right of entry to Norway. The proposal also includes proposals for a residence permit in the Restrictive Practice Act to expel non-residents for serious infringements of the rules on the entry quarantine in the covid-19 regulation. The background of the suggestions is known to us. In the fall, we have experienced an increasing trend in infection. Health authorities have pointed out that the import infection is an important risk factor for spread of infection into the country and there is reason to believe that import infection has led to significant secondary infection. There is a need for strict measures in view of the risk of contamination of imports. We must prevent infected persons from entering Norway, and ensure that those who enter will comply with the obligations of the admission agents. The requirement for a negative covid-19 test for entry into Norway is currently permitted in the IPD. This is an intervention for travellers, and the government is now proposing that the requirement be covered by the Temporary Act on restrictions on the entry of foreigners for reasons of public health. Non-residents who cannot provide evidence of a negative covid-19 test may be rejected. The health authorities point out that the requirement for negative testing when one comes, suggests reducing the burden of collecting the infection. Right-wing thinks it's important and right to get a seat in order to pass on this requirement in order to be allowed to go into Norway. It is always a right-wing assumption that one assesses the duration of the restrictions on entry and testing requirements continuously, in line with the development of infection. The government also proposes rules to facilitate the expulsion of foreigners for serious violations of the rules on entry quarantine, such as: the obligation to book a quarantine hotel when it is in custody. In some cases, a break in rules may also lead to expulsion or expulsion today, but then under the ordinary rules of procedure of the Foreign Affairs Act. The proposed remedies open up the possibility of expulsion following a simplified procedure, in the same way as by attempting to enter Norway in breach of the restrictions imposed by the covid-19 pandemic. Right thinks this is good action. There are comments from the opposition, which are critical to the government’s management of import infection. However, it is worth noting that the majority of the Committee points out that the government has initiated several measures to manage and reduce the infection pressure resulting from imports from abroad. There is a joint committee behind the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e740	For more than ten months, the Norwegian people have participated in a great deal of hard work against the coronary infection. Thanks to the high level of confidence we have in this country, people have loyally joined up to the measures that have been put in place, and we have managed to steer away from the very worst scenarios we have seen in many other countries. But many, as we know, have paid a very high price: workers who have been permated or laid off, and who experience no longer being able to support their family, entire industries that bleed, and fears of bankruptcy throughout the country, elderly people who have had to die alone without their closeness around them, and relatives who have not been able to participate in the funeral of their loved ones, vulnerable children who have not received the follow-up they need – the list is long. In view of the current crisis in Norway, and the highly invasive infectious measures that now control people's lives, it is very critical that the government has not had better control of the import centre until now. We know that the high import rate was a major cause of the second wave of infection in Norway. The government had received clear warnings from the professional authorities that the risk of import infection was particularly high. The working party has issued several warnings to the government over the autumn about the risk of import infection from high-pressure countries, and we suggested, among other things. mandatory testing on arrival from red land. Unfortunately, this was clearly rejected by the government, despite the fact that at that time four out of five persons passed the border test stations and 40 pst. did not comply with the quarantine rules at the time of entry and despite the absence of a system for verifying compliance with the quarantine obligation or the adequacy of the facilities in which the foreign workers were to carry out the quarantine. So the government finally turned around and decided on New Year's Eve because compulsory testing was a proper measure anyway. It is good that the government finally made sense, but unfortunately it took too long. The infection had already come out of control, and we now recorded the highest infection rates since the beginning of the pandemic. If the government had spent the time before Christmas planning to carry out mandatory testing in a safe and efficient way instead of swallowing proposals from the opposition on better control of the import infection, we would have avoided getting into the chaotic situation that has now arisen, with long queues and infectious situations at airports. The working party considers that there is still a need for further measures to prevent further import contamination. There is a need for more stringent control of the journey from the aerodrome to the quarantine service and control of the quarantine site, and we need to ensure that the municipalities are provided with sufficient resources to carry out mandatory testing of all residents. Too many people have been permitted or have lost their jobs. An alarming number of companies have closed down or gone bankrupt. The situation could have been less serious if the import centre had been taken sufficiently seriously by the government from the beginning.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e753	Although there is a joint committee that supports the proposal, it is in its place to mention that there are many parties, including the Progress Party, who are frustrated that it has taken too long before strong measures have been taken against the import infection. As we have heard during today's debates, there have been extremely radical actions, and we have reason to begin to fear a fatigue in the population, even though it is impressive how persevering the population has been. When you see over time that the inhabitants of the country have to impose great restrictions on how you live your life, while at the same time being able to do more on the border to limit the import infection, I have to say I understand that frustration is increasing. I also think everyone understands that we are dependent on labour to carry out important tasks in Norway. No one has mentioned that we should stop any possibility of taking in labour if necessary, but there are several measures, including: mandatory testing at the border, which has also been proposed by the Progress Party, which could have been introduced at an earlier date, and we could probably have been in a different situation today. I think it's important for the government to take along, and that you don't end up in a situation where the people feel that it's the people who have to sacrifice the most, while you don't do what you can, for example. to stop contamination at the border. As I said, we agree with the proposal in this matter, but there was a need to make the criticism and frustration known to the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e762	The requirement for a covid-19 test up to 72 hours before arrival is covered by the IPD Act. Several groups are excluded and the requirement does not apply to Norwegian nationals. If not lifted within 30 days, the continuation of the provisions of Sections 7 to 12 of the Infectious Disease Protection Act shall be submitted to the Stortinget as soon as possible. The Committee supports the statutory provisions for the introduction of the covid-19 test for the right of entry into the temporary law on restrictions on the entry of non-residents for reasons of public health. When we dealt with this matter last, in the Inner. 142 S for 2020–2021, both the Institute for Public Health and the Directorate for Health considered that mandatory testing of people from red countries was not important for the disease situation in Norway. The centre party chose to listen to the professional advice. Negative testing is a snapshot, and the Progression Party's proposal that a person should be able to test himself out of quarantine could have contributed to a large spread of infection. Experience from Iceland showed that 25 pst. of the non-compliant passengers tested positive after five to six days. Testing itself provides a false security. Quarantine requirements remain crucial. Now the technical advice has changed. The medical justification now gives clear indications that mandatory border testing is an appropriate measure to limit the spread of infection in Norway. Therefore, the lot of the centre supports the proposition. This applies both to the continuation of mandatory testing and to the change, which provide a basis for non-certificated foreigners to be rejected at the border. One problem is the large number of false negative tests and the potential spread of infection and, in particular, the extra difficult transmission of infection. We need to pay more attention to this. The centre party also believes that the government should have put in place effective measures to prevent infection before the sharp increase in October. The measures were too late and were too unbridled, and there was a lack of enforcement. When the government opened up travel between Norway and Europe on 15 July, they also removed restrictions on entry for a number of countries and regions that at that time had much higher rates of infection than Norway. This led to increased import infection. Import infection due to labour immigration is also a major problem. Irrespective measures and interpretations by employers who have taken on the responsibility for quarantine facilities have revealed the spread of infection due to the fact that several have not been completely isolated but shared the kitchen and bathroom. This has resulted in a large spread of infection in some municipalities. The central part points out in the setting that the municipalities will be able to have an additional financial burden on the requirements we are now adopting. [[President clubs]] That's when the time was up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e777	Yeah, that's when the time was up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e782	SV supports the bill, but we must agree with the criticism that has come about that there has been a very unfair picture by the government regarding measures to protect us, especially against import infection. SV has fully agreed that the most important thing is, of course, the quarantine – it is the one that protects against the spread of the infection. Testing is an indication to see if it's coming, and we're now supporting this. But I have to say that the handling of the entry quarantines that the government has carried out is not good enough. It comes from the fact that in the first round you had very strange rules that people who rented housing couldn't carry out the quarantine in their own housing because it was rented, and not owned, which obviously has nothing to do with infectious diseases, while at the same time you were very open and meticulous to businessmen who wanted to work immigration and were going to handle this sea. There have been too many examples of this not going on. Now it is also the case that the municipalities have been charged with a very large responsibility, and then I will draw attention to a message that came to NTB in the morning today, where the Health Directorate says that it is a continuous impression that no or only a few municipalities have had the capacity to use the information from the entry registration. This means that they are neither able to check that testing has been carried out nor that the arrivals are quarantined. I understand that very well is very difficult for the municipalities, but it is absolutely necessary that it be done. It is necessary to know how the municipalities will now be able to do this. Before today I have heard that it is said that the municipalities will have to cover the expenses, and that is well and good, but it is difficult to get up the capacity that is needed. It may be less difficult to test, but it is most difficult to check how to carry out the quarantine. I want the government and the Council of State to say something more about this now. So the Health Directorate is asking the government now, publicly, to assess more stringent measures, for example. to refuse entry. Some of those in need of foreign labour will be hit hard, but it may be necessary to stop some of these imports for a shorter period of time. In any case, quarantine hotels and not quarantines must be imposed by the employer, because we know that has caused problems. Now we've been doing this for a long time. I don't imagine we're going to do it for another year, so now we have to put in place measures that can stop the spread of infection.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e797	I am pleased that a unanimous committee supports the proposal to allow the government to set out negative covid-19 tests for the right of entry, as well as the grounds for expulsion in the event of breaches of the rules on the admission quarantine. I would also like to thank Mr Stortinget for dealing with this legislative proposal so quickly. We've sacrificed a lot to get control of the pandemic in Norway. It is important that we maintain this control. Many measures have been taken to limit the spread in Norway. In addition, it is important to limit the further spread of the virus through imports from abroad. The requirement for a negative covid-19 test for non-residents entering Norway is one important measure against imports. The measure is recommended by both the Directorate of Health and the Institute of Public Health. In order to ensure compliance with the requirement, it is also important to be able to expel non-residents who do not have evidence that they have tested negative for covid-19 prior to arrival. I would like to stress that the government is continuously assessing the need for restrictions on entry. This also applies to the test requirement. The government has a great deal of understanding of the difficulties it brings to individuals, businesses and cultural life. We continuously assess the level of intervention and look at what is necessary and proportionate in view of the infection situation at all times. I am also pleased that the Committee supports the proposal for an authorisation of expulsion in the event of serious breaches of the rules on admission quarantine. Compliance with these rules is very important and therefore effective sanctions must also be available. Infringements on the entry quarantine may, under more detailed conditions, lead to expulsion even today. However, following the legislative proposal here, simplified rules of procedure will apply compared to the Foreign Affairs Act. In return, the proposed expulsion rule will only have a clear and serious breach of the entry quarantine. I believe this provides a balanced and appropriate rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e816	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e822	The government's job is to control our country through this crisis, and it's not an easy task, I admit, but fortunately, the government has very competent professional authorities to rely on in this work, and they don't least have an opposition on the Storting which is constantly working to find political solutions for the best of our country in this crisis. During this fall, the government received many warnings from both the professional authorities and us in the opposition about the threat posed by increased imports. Why did it take so long before the government realized that compulsory testing was a necessary measure, so that when these measures were first implemented, control was lost in many ways?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e827	I just have to take a sharp distance from the description that the representative gives of how long it took. We received advice from our professional authorities, the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute, on 29 December. On 2 January we introduced mandatory testing. So it took a very short time before this was introduced. So it's true that it was a 24-hour rule, and it was based on test capacity. The testing capacity had to be built up, and our health authorities have been concerned that it would go beyond the ordinary provision that municipalities should also make. But there has been a lot of work done here by the municipalities and health authorities to get this in place, and therefore immediate testing will be carried out from 1 p.m. 17 today at the points of border to be open, a total of 32.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e834	The Labour Party has called for measures for a long time, and we see that the government only today chooses to introduce new measures. The government and the response minister are now working on a rather dramatic proposal on a possible port ban. Does the government choose to admit – when you see the consequences of import infection in other countries, when you see the consequence and the risk of importing the mutation virus, and when you see the second wave of infection we have received in Norway – that it should have taken action at a much earlier stage?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e839	As I said, I do not agree with the description. Since 16 March, we have had very strict rules for who can come to Norway, and the way to deal with quarantine rules and now later testing. I do not know which professional authorities the representative refers to that the Workers' Party has based itself on. We have by the government based ourselves on the professional authorities of the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute, and from there it was not recommended mandatory testing. When we got wave number two, we got it after a summer how many had moved a lot, traveled a lot. This is not about foreigners who came to Norway, but about Norwegians who came home to Norway, following a situation where there was little infection. So we saw that it changed. This case concerns the requirements we introduced at the beginning of November, which was in addition to quarantine hotels and strict quarantine rules. Now we were advised on 29 December and introduced mandatory testing on 2 January. That's not what I call spending a lot of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e846	The Health Directorate considers that there are still major challenges to the borderline measures, and states that this has resulted in imports continuing to pose a significant challenge to the national disease protection situation. Then there is a question of when the government intends to assess these stronger measures, what is needed to ensure that the government actually listens now to the Health Directorate, and the second is how the municipalities will carry out the control of people actually being quarantined. One is purely practical, the other is the economy, while the third is the law. What kind of authority do the municipalities have to be able to check that people are actually at home? Is it the municipalities that have this home? I thought the police were responsible for such investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e851	I am a little uncertain as to what advice the health service representative believes we have not followed up. The advice we receive is publicly available. So we got new, up-to-date numbers on Friday, and they told the Prime Minister today. We have therefore followed all the advice we have received from our health authorities related to restrictions on entry, quarantine rules, test rules, quarantine hotels, etc., etc. On those points this had to differ, the case will be clear, but I do not know that we have deviated from it, neither in terms of restrictions on entry or otherwise. The representative asked us when to follow up the strong recommendations we received, so we've followed them up to the point and the point. As far as the authority of the municipality is concerned, it is in accordance with the Code on Disease Protection. It is the municipality that is the nearest infectious disease authority, and the municipalities have got 350 million. kr to carry out control activities. Now there's not a single venue open, so you should have a good opportunity. In addition, we set up a national telephone centre under the auspices of the Health Directorate to follow up on each individual traveler.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e860	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e867	What I'm referring to is what the Health Directorate is out in the media today, not what's been going on right now. They say that even more stringent measures may be needed at the border, i.e. stopping entry for a period of time. Then my question is, where does the government limit when they're going to do this, when a short period of time that might help create control of the infection situation that is? When it comes to the municipalities being able to control the tipping points, it's okay, but I'm talking about checking that people are actually in quarantine at home, or that they're sitting elsewhere. That's what I was wondering about how to actually implement and follow up, because it's a very difficult task for the municipalities if they're going to follow all the people around the clock that way. I just wanted to hear how the government had realized that this was actually going to happen in practice, so you're a little sure that this action is actually being followed up. What we know is that most people in Norway are loyally following the measures that are being implemented. I also think that the vast majority of people who come do when this is within reasonable limits. But we also know that it's going to be very small if this starts to slip, so that it gets spread, and that the digestion among those who see that someone else doesn't follow up and it doesn't get reactions, gets very negative effects. I know that the municipalities are now struggling very hard to follow up on infectious diseases. They struggle to follow up at the schools, in the care of the elderly, in the health care system. They have so many tasks now and are quite disappointed that they are getting new tasks that are difficult to accomplish. That's why I ask the government, because I also have questions about how we should do this, and then I have to be able to give a slightly more sensible answer than what I can do today, about how the municipalities are going to do this in a practical way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e878	We have certainly not been advised to close the borders completely for a period of time. Nor did we have completely closed borders on 12 March and in the first period – we had exceptions for the necessary social critical staff, for children who had a right to get together, etc. Now we are in a situation where we have specified the groups that have exemptions from the test requirement, but not from the quarantine requirement, of course. Everything suggests, we hope, that the rapid response of the government to the advice we have received has led to a reduction in the infection rate. We are now seeing a downward trend – let’s hope that it stays. So we can't afford, as Andersen's representative asks, to completely close the borders. It would be very, very invasive, based on the infection situation we have today. Believe me, I have been in a situation where many groups have been excluded from Norway. It's very demanding for them. That is why today we have a general rule that everyone should go to quarantine hotels. That's what's the main rule. When you get to the municipality, you have to go to a quarantine hotel, unless you have a suitable location. There's a limited number of people who do. They have to be followed up by the municipalities, so the municipalities have got 350 million. kr to carry out control activities. They don't need to use them now at gift shops, they can use them on the individuals they're told to have come to the municipality. Everyone registers, everyone tells where to stay, everyone gives their telephone number, so the city controllers can be used to follow them. In addition, we're going to follow them up nationally, we're going to help the municipalities. The Health Directorate is about to hire 160 people to operate a telephone centre to follow up on each individual traveler. So I can see that we have very strict rules. We also have to follow those rules because we all have one wish, and it's that the infection rate goes down, and the vaccination is taken up, so that we can get back to normal if not for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e887	The representative Karin Andersen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e892	I do not know how these lines of information go, but I am referring to what is now a message on NTB – this morning – where the Health Directorate recommends that the government quickly assess more interventional measures if today’s actions are not effective enough. Such measures may be to refuse entry for shorter periods. That's why I'm saying, what should the situation be for the government to do this? This is why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e898	It was in itself a good thing that the representative reads the message, because there the health authorities say that if the situation does not change, there is a need to follow up on new measures that health authorities would recommend. And the answer to that is yes. That's what we've been doing all along. We have dealt with the recommendations we have received. Now we have a regime based on the present situation, the advice we now have, we had a different situation this summer based on the advice we then received, and we had a third situation in March based on the advice we then received. So if this doesn't work, we'll be able to assess further measures and more stringent measures for a group that might then not be able to come to Norway. But let's hope we don't get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e903	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e920	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e927	In this proposal for a representative, there are 15 different proposals. I don't have time to go into all of them, but I can say that one of the proposals proposed here is to look at a common coordination point, where everyone who is subjected to negative social control can address themselves. It is also a majority proposal from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Progress Party to ensure the raising of competences in the theme of negative social control for counselors and teachers in the school community. There are also a number of other proposals which do not receive a majority. But I want to say that I think everyone really agrees that negative social control is something that needs to be combated. We have to be clear about this, no matter who it is, because that's not what someone thinks, that this only applies to the immigrant environment. It may also apply to other groups in society where social control is transferred to being negative and depriving them of freedom. On the SV side, I would say that all women, children and young people have the right to live their lives free of mental and physical violence. Depressive structures with negative social control and honor-related violence have existed in all cultures at different times and to different degrees, but they are the same extreme control: gender discrimination and physical and mental violence which also exist in society today and particularly affects women and children. In particular, these issues need to be addressed from an equal opportunities policy perspective and from a child rights perspective. I am also very concerned that violence should be called violence and not negative social control. The prohibition of violence is regulated by law, and it cannot be wrapped up in a political language that makes us think it's anything but what it is. Violence, coercion and assault shall not be justified by culture or religion. Accepting the offender’s explanation reduces women’s fight to deal with the others. Only when many experience the consequences of their actions and are subjected to the same criminal reaction as in the case of violence in close relations can we have a general preventive effect, which is intended to have a penalty in a court case. The government has presented an action plan against negative social control, forced marriage and gender mutilation. The plan is full of good intentions, but it is a little obligating, unfortunately. SV has several suggestions in this setting. I don't have time to go into everybody, but I'll mention someone: Minority advisers have been successful in schools. We want to expand that system considerably, both in secondary schools and by shifting the system to be more preventive, i.e. by taking action earlier and looking at how to build relationships, and how to help both parents and children if they come into such a situation. It will be a necessary job, and it is better that we get that way of working before the damage has happened. It's also absolutely necessary when someone says from now on, that they get help there and then. It's something that at least some of the people I've met who have been exposed to this, says, "I didn't dare say anything, because I didn't know if I got help, and at the moment I said anything, I was actually in danger of life. It is absolutely essential that we succeed in this work. There is a good deal of discussion about financial penalties, for example: in the case of child-restraint. SV is not fundamentally against looking at it, but in that case it must be investigated, as the minister has said, how this should be done, where the boundaries should go, what can be acceptable, and at all events how the framework for this should be. Now you can lose your child's pension if you stay abroad a long time, but you don't necessarily have anything to do with violence and coercion. In addition, I would ask the government to pay particular attention to the children who are left abroad. We need to find better measures to help them. I will address the proposals SV is only about in the vote, and the proposals we have with the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e952	The representative, Karin Andersen, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e957	One of today's great struggles for freedom and equality takes place in the crossroads between freedom to live their lives in different ways and the social and cultural pressure that many face in choosing how they will live their lives. Negative social control and physical and mental honours have no place in our society. When individuals are hurt, society is also hurt. Then the community and society will react. Everyone shall have the freedom to be himself, to participate and to break if they experience limitations in their freedom. The fight against negative social control has many similarities with the fight against labour movement and the women's movement has fought before. It's the struggle for freedom to choose who you are, to love who you want, to become what you want, to participate and contribute. I want to give Karin Andersen the right idea that this is a field and a theme that engages in all parties. But our work must be more than commitment, we must commit ourselves. That is why we are promoting proposals here today. Negative social control creates difficult family relationships; it creates insecure young people; it creates poorer societies. If we're going to be able to create a society where everyone's free, we have to look at the reasons why someone's not free. Often it is the parents and families who exercise the negative social control, who put girls in the girls' room – shutting them out of the world. A Fafo report on social control shows that negative social control decreases the longer parents live in and become part of Norway. We have to give the parents the tools they need and say what we as a society expect to bring up their children without negative social control. The most important thing we can do to combat negative social control is to strengthen integration in Norway. When the family does not accept who you are, society will stand there as a community and accept them. We need to give children and young people the courage to take the discussions with their own parents. Real freedom is only available when you also have the opportunity to break out and walk in the ultimate sense. The main motivation for us in these proposals is to raise awareness of children and young people already at childhood, and to give young people tools to stand up for the choices they want to make for their own lives in difficult conversations at home. That is why we propose, inter alia: a plan for stepping up the number of minority advisors, so that high school students can seek advice from this service regardless of which school they attend. We want a plan to step up the social work aimed at families affected by the social control problem. We promote legislative proposals or in the form of regulations specify that negative social control can also trigger the obligation to provide information on child protection. We will introduce guidelines to ensure that resource teams are quickly connected when children have undocumented school absences. We will extend the mandate of the follow-up service to monitor and report on suspicion of forced placement abroad, and we will develop a programme to care for children and young people who have been left abroad, even after returning to Norway, so that they can get the necessary help to get started on a new start. With this, I take up the proposals of the Labour Party alone, and the proposal we have with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e978	The representative Siri Gassemyr Staalese has drawn up the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e983	I thank the proposers for promoting an important issue today, a theme that deserves a great commitment from all of us. I think we share the concern for the development we see around us, not least for the reports we get from those who work on this in practice, and who testify that this is still a field with a lot of broken ground and great darkness. Work towards negative social control is about the right of individuals to make independent choices and to strengthen their choices. You don't believe it until you see it, our minority advisors in Agder said last week, when I had Teams meetings with them. The need for effort is great, and we need instruments, was their message. It is good that more cases are revealed now than before, but it is very worrying that the darkness figures seem to be so much higher than previously assumed. And we hear from those who work in the field that there is still a high threshold to ask for help if you are subjected to negative social control or honor-related violence. It should not be the case in Norway that girls and boys grow up without the freedom to control their own lives, their own bodies or to whom they are going to marry. Children and young people should not be sent against their will to schools abroad, where they are subjected to violence and abuse. Of course, it is also not acceptable to be subjected to forced marriages or threats. And no one is to be subjected to sexual mutilation. I agree with the government that this work requires both measures nationally and a broad approach and cross-border cooperation. It was important that the theme was taken up in the Granavolden platform, and that we had the right to decide about our own lives. Action plan against negative social control, coercion and sexual mutilation [[2017-2020]] I have noticed that the Ministry of Knowledge cooperates with the Nordic Council of Ministers on the implementation of the monitoring of ‘Strategies and initiatives to prevent negative social control and honour-related violence in the Nordic countries’ from 2020. I think that might be a useful contribution. This case has 15 separate proposals. We have explained our views on the individual proposals in the vote, and I am pleased to note that a lot of good work is being done in many of these areas. I am particularly pleased to see that the work on skills building, guidance and counselling is in strong development. There is a focus on cultural understanding, minority competence and knowledge of violence and abuse in our education services in child protection, in family protection and in schools, in framework plans and in supervisors. Good progress has been made, but we are still impatient. It has been good to see that the number of minority advisors has almost doubled since 2018. We now have 49 advisors, and 535 people received advice and guidance from them. There's more than one, but the need is greater than this. That is why I am pleased that 10 posts were allocated to the 2020 budget. That's what's needed, because we see that it has an effect. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the minority advisors are also clear that they have a broad perspective on negative social control. This is not only about immigrant settings but also about other minority groups. It's important to remember. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Right will also support II in the setting, and will take into account that the other government parties will do the same. This has also been an important input for our government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1006	There is reason for serious concern about the progress of some areas of integration. We have ended up in this situation because the leading majority has not taken seriously what it leads to if we have an uncontrolled immigration policy and a failed integration policy. We have come into a situation where people who flee from totalitarian, oppressive regimes may risk meeting exactly the same thing in Norway. I think that is very worrying. We should not have put ourselves in that situation, and it is the leading majority in Norwegian policy that is responsible for putting ourselves in that situation. I have to say I agree with the definition of social control that Karin Andersen, the representative, came along with. This applies not only to immigrants, it concerns more, but we must also admit that young immigrants are particularly vulnerable. They often come from a culture with a different language and have enough to integrate into Norway. If they meet things they have fled from and should be protected from in Norway, things will be much worse in the near future. Therefore, the approach of the Party to these matters is particularly vulnerable to immigrants. The Progress Party has made numerous proposals for integration. One year ago we had a thorough report in which we made a number of proposals for, among other things. combating social control. These were largely downgraded. I think it is strange that the parties who vote down the proposals when we promote them are inclined to vote for exactly the same proposals if someone else promotes them. We have promoted measures that could help to do something powerful for those children like this. be left abroad. We have put forward proposals to prosecute, to introduce the possibility of losing the right to care, to lose the residence permit, to reset the vesting period for permanent residence, and to also to withdraw child protection and other benefits. We have come up with that in the past – it has been downgraded. We have also made proposals for a mandatory health survey to detect gender harm. Gender mutilation is perhaps one of the most serious in terms of negative social control. It's violent, and it's punishable, and we should do everything we can to expose it and save children from this. Nevertheless, the majority of population repeatedly disagree with a proposal that might be the only one that could have done something powerful to help these children, precisely to enter and introduce mandatory health checks for children. But then there are other considerations, other rights, other things that have been more important to the population than protecting the children. I don't understand. We know this is happening in Norway, but we've never tried anyone. It's not something we can be proud of, it's not something we can live with, and we think it's strange that this has been voted down so many times, most recently when we dealt with the new law of integration. Many proposals have been made in this Chamber. Many of them have been taken care of in other areas, and the Progress Party only supports the proposals that we believe are not a blow in the air, which we believe have something in common, and which we believe have not been taken care of by other plans or other matters. So we support proposal No. 1 and I, II and V in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1019	Will the representative address the proposal made by the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1024	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1029	The representative, Jon Engen-Helgheim, then drew up the proposal put forward by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1035	The centre party believes that action is necessary against honour, forced marriage and negative social control to ensure free participation in Norwegian society. At the same time, the measures must be accurate. Negative social control is usually linked to immigrants to Norway bringing with them religious and cultural practices other than those that most people use for our society. This may be the case to a large extent, but excessive negative social control and honorary violence are also found in special settings in the Norwegian community. We need to put in place measures that call for girls and boys' right to growth and a future based on their own choices and free development opportunities. Of course, the law has to be adapted to the basis on which we think it should be based in order to be part of Norwegian society, but it's not certain that it's always the law paragraphs we have, it's a problem. The workplace, school and non-governmental organisations are crucial venues for building bridges over religious and cultural differences. Schools and kindergartens where young people from different environments learn together and develop together are essential to bridge inequalities and increase mutual understanding. There will always be cases where we can't change behavior through information and positive influences. It is important that we, as a society, then work hard when there is a violation of our law. We shall not use religious and cultural differences as grounds for not intervening in violation of Norwegian law. Then we take the attacker's side at the expense of the victim, and it must not be allowed to happen. The proposers have submitted a number of proposals which they consider necessary to prevent negative social control. It's affordable. At the same time, some of the proposals are either not feasible today, have ambiguities or are already under work. New proposals have been made in the Committee's work to remedy this problem. One of the proposals is to strengthen the system of minority counsellors to also apply to secondary schools in connection with an escalation plan. The centre party believes that the centrally based team is a natural tool rather than choosing a few colleges, while others are not to be given. At the same time, a plan for escalation associated with secondary school will be natural. There is a lot of good social work going on, but at the same time many people believe that the overview is too poor today. The centre party therefore considers it natural that the Storting should ask for a better overview and assessment of the effectiveness of the measures in total. One of the challenges we see is that coordination in many places can be inadequate when someone turns to the public for help. I am therefore pleased that the Committee jointly asks the Government to consider how such a coordination point in each municipality can be ensured. For the Central Party, it is important that this is not about a new task, but how coordination of efforts and the means available to the municipality can be improved. There's a job going on with a new child law. Although the obligation to notify concerns about a number of issues related to negative social control, honorary violence and forced marriage is currently enshrined in our legislation, the Centre considers that the obligation to notify should be further assessed in the context of new child law. In the context of NOU 2019: 23, one of the elements is a clearer obligation to follow-up if a child has undocumented absence from school, with the aim of ensuring children’s right to education. Today, this follows the Training Act. At the same time, it cannot be the case that resource teams should be connected only if there is undocumented absence, as the proposers write. Therefore, the centre party will not support the proposal that has been promoted for a resource team to be deployed in the event of undocumented absences on a general basis. Knowledge is often fresher. It is therefore necessary at regular intervals to have information campaigns aimed at, in this context, knowledge of the duties of public servants in the event of suspicion of negative social control and violence in close relations. If you're unsure, it often turns out that you're resisting. Today, there are probably large numbers of darkness, at least the numbers of children left abroad are difficult to obtain. There are a number of issues in which information needs to be taken into account, including the need for privacy. That's why, as the Center Party sees it, it needs an investigation that looks at how to strengthen the reporting of abandoned children abroad, and what is possible within the International Law. The stoppage of child welfare as a penalty raises a number of complex issues of a principle and practical nature, and the Centre feels, like more people, that that question needs to be addressed in that case. Prevention will always be important. Negative social control must be combated. As a society, we still have a lot to go on. The measures and legislation must therefore be accurate. With that, I'm going to deal with the suggestions that the Center Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1065	The representative Willfred Nordlund has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1070	Let me start by thanking the representatives of the Workers' Party who have promoted this proposal. It's very timely. At the same time, it provides the Left's Council of States of Integration with an opportunity to promote the Party's excellent policy in this area, based on freedoms and opportunities. Here in the country, we enjoy the freedom and the right to be who you want to be – to choose your girlfriend freely. We know, however, that very many live in social coercive streets behind closed doors, and in no way do they enjoy freedom in their Norwegian everyday life. Our liberal tradition of freedom for both youth and adults can be frightening to many who have sought refuge in Norway, from community as a fence for social control. Many come from countries that do not consider freedom in our social society as fundamental as we do here in Norway. Many want to hold on to offensive traditions despite the fact that it was our very freedom that seemed to initially enticing in Norway. It is necessary to add that social control is not limited to migrant settings. The ‘construction animal’ is a much-discussed theme in Norwegian literature, but even today this is sadly far more than a fiction. This hampers freedoms and opportunities. It inhibits creativity, modernity and originality. The free man becomes unfree. Social control is not part of the Left’s image of Norway. Nevertheless, we know that young people and adults in immigrant communities and other communities suffer from strict regimes at home. Young immigrant women who embrace our way of life even experience that the moral police get away to them on the street with their index fingers and strong admonitions. We cannot be aware of this in Norway in 2021. Social control has a very negative impact on integration and opportunities to learn to live and live in a socially liberalised country such as Norway. Therefore, it is gratifying and most reassuring that the government, with the government at the head, is currently working on a new action plan for the field. It is important and right that the action plan will focus attention on the needs of newly arrived refugees and immigrants. The left has already put its mark on government policy, and there has been a positive development in policy in the field since we became part of the government – otherwise it was three years ago. Among other things, this is linked to minority advisors. Today these are found in all the counties of the country, in selected schools. In the period 2018-2020, the number of advisers increased from 26 to 49 and in 2021 the scheme was strengthened by a further 10 advisers. In addition, students can contact the Competence Team for forced marriage, sexual mutilation and negative social control. Exposured kids can also contact the Red Cross phone. In this year's budget, the government has invested 5 million. to information measures to improve the awareness of these services among young people. It is important that children and young people know where to turn. The decision taken today shows a broad consensus on the importance of having a point of coordination for enquiries and ensuring the provision of skills-enhancing services for teachers and counselors throughout the school cycle. It is important that children and young people who experience social control know where to turn and that advisers and teachers who accept these often vulnerable people know how to deal with it. We suspect that there are large numbers of darkness associated with social control, and only with good offers and increased knowledge of where and how to address professionals about the problems, will we discover human fortunes where today you live under unacceptable social conditions. I also use the opportunity to encourage everyone, including environments outside school and healthcare, to reach out one hand if one suspects that social control takes place in neighborhoods or other places. I know that the sports community in Norway is already making an excellent effort in this area. Inclusion is one of the most valuable and effective contributions to integration and less alienation in society. This cannot be repeated too often.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1089	There are standards of acceptable behaviour in all communities. You could say that social control is how the community regulates how people behave. It must be accepted at a formal level, but it is the informal social control that is not always as easily identifiable as the harmful one. Often, the person to whom this is being practiced does not know what is happening or what is about to happen. The informal social thing can be said to be the control of what other people expect, and how they try to influence you to behave in a certain way. Control is often exercised by family, friends or others around you. The control can be subtle or direct, it can be healthy and marked by good intentions and care, as a father who wants only the best for his child. But it can also be unhealthy and influenced by manipulation. Such negative social control deprives or limits the fundamental right of a person to determine his or her own life and future in accordance with age and maturity. It is a violation of human rights and otherwise of Norwegian law and should be looked at very seriously. Negative social control, the unhealthy, informal social control, can characterize human life for a long time — both those who are exposed to it and those who expose others to it. It may affect those indirectly, it may put family relationships to the test, and it may have the effect of adapting to, and adapting to, those affected. Therefore, it is so important that government parties were identified in the Granavolden platform that ‘negative social control is a serious social problem that needs to be addressed’. The Action Plan The right to decide over one's own life, which is the action plan against negative social control, forced marriage and sexual mutilation, has many good measures. At the same time, I am pleased that an overall committee today chooses to continue its efforts to combat negative social control. That we find together in a matter like this, says something about the importance of the matter, and it says something about that we are not done with the work in the case. If we're going to fight this, we just have to stand together to be absolutely sure that knowledge and information are going to go out of their way. In addition to the good work already done by the government, it is important that we ensure today that all municipalities have a coordination point for the various relief measures against negative social control – a place where all those seeking help or guidance can turn. This, I think, is absolutely essential, alongside the attitude-building work done at the grassroots in the municipalities every single day, and a law that corresponds to the severity of what the negative social control can mean for the one who is exposed to it. We agree with this for the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1102	The issue we are dealing with today shows a broad political commitment to ensuring freedom from negative social control and honor-related violence. The Ministry of Knowledge is well under way to develop a new action plan in the field. It will be the sixth action plan in the series and will apply from 2021 to 2024. With this special effort, we want to maintain the pressure in the work that we have had in recent years. We see negative social control, honor-related violence, coerciveness and sexual mutilation as barriers to integration. It is important that we work to ensure the right of individuals to make their own choices about education, marriage and work, and that those in need have access to competent assistance services. There is also a need to start prevention in the past. That is why we have decided – as also referred to in the previous debate – that a new action plan, among other things. shall have a clearer focus on newly arrived refugees and the needs of immigrants. In order to strengthen the work of auxiliary services, several systems of specific competence and the provision of services to vulnerable persons are in place. Among other things, we have minority advisors at selected secondary and secondary schools, which are part of the IMDi service provision for those at risk of negative social control and honor-related violence — an important low-threshold provision for young people. In Report. St. 6 for 2018-2019 on new tasks for county municipalities was informed that the Ministry of Knowledge would further develop the minority advisory system and then return to Stortinget with a proposal for a possible transfer of the scheme to county municipalities. This year's budget is 10 million. to strengthen this scheme with 10 new posts. The total budget for the scheme is now 63 million. SEK, with 59 minority advisors in selected secondary and secondary schools. We have considered transferring the scheme to the county councils, but have decided to continue today's organization in the IMFI. By doing so, we ensure continued national anchoring, that the system can be further developed as a unified service across the country, and that this is done in conjunction with other specific assistance measures for vulnerable persons. We see that there has been an increase in the number of cases to the specific relief services over time. This suggests that if we have more available tip skills, more vulnerable people will be caught up, but we still think there's a lot of darkness. The emphasis on ordinary services is therefore also something we need to work on continuously. Raising competences is also an important part of the mandate of minority advisors. They shall not only provide direct guidance to young people in need of help; they shall also contribute to enhancing the competence of many others, for example: teachers. The IMDi team for the prevention of negative social control and honour-related violence is a new national guidance service that started work in January this year. The team is available for employees in schools, refugee services, Nav, adult training institutions and other support services. I have great faith that this can be an important offer. Municipal staff may also address directly to the inter-territorial team against coerciveness, sexual mutilation and negative social control, which is a national advisory and guidance service for first-line employees. The exposed persons may also make direct contact with this service. The budget for the year is 5 million. to develop information and knowledge dissemination on the specific assistance services and to strengthen the Competence Team against forced marriage, gender mutilation and negative social control. The school shall disseminate knowledge and promote attitudes that ensure equality and equality. Children and young people shall learn that they have the right to participate and shall experience this in practice. They need to learn about sexuality, gender identity, demarcation and violence and assault. Schools are also important for catching up children and young people in need of help. Negative social control is mentioned in the Directorate-General for Education’s guidance for schools and school owners on non-school children. The guide includes, inter alia: supporting material for follow-up conversations in cases where school employees are concerned about sending a student abroad involuntarily. The supervisor also provides information on the types of duties that employees at school have and who can be contacted if one is unsure about how to proceed. I share the commitment the Stortinge shows for this work, and we will make sure to follow up the decisions that the Stortinge takes today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1136	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1141	I have a concern about the coordination procedures between different public authorities on issues of negative social control. The routines are too weak. It is up to each school to follow a concern message from young people and contact the IMDi advisor or health professionals if the school does not have an adviser. This work needs to be systematised better, and we need to ensure good competence in the field of employees. It may take time for different agencies to contact each other, and then the youth may have been sent abroad. Does the Council share our concern that the coordination procedures are too weak and that the result may be that it is missing and that we lose the opportunity to help a child in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1148	I think the representative here points to a very important issue. Although there has been a strong stepping-up of measures and the specific competences built up in this context, it is often a challenge that some young people working with do not know well enough about the offer available and that it is not possible to connect resources well enough. This has also been pointed out, among other things. in a review by NIBR, the Norwegian Institute for Urban and Regional Research, which produced a report in June 2020, recommending that we ensure better cross-disciplinary cooperation. This is also something that will be considered in the context of the work on a new action plan, so here we will see what we can do. But I also believe that the new IMDi team will be an important hub that I think can contribute to better competence everywhere. That measure started in January this year, so it is too early to be able to say anything about how it has worked, but I have faith that that measure will also help.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1153	Findings in reports show that abandoned young people who are being helped home to Norway are getting tough on returning home. Youths often have to break up with family and an extended network at home. One of our suggestions is that young people should be helped to start their lives again, and that they should not be left alone on their return. Why does the Council of State not support the proposal to develop a programme for the care of children and young people who have been left abroad, even after returning to Norway, so that they can get the necessary help to start a new start?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1160	In 2019, an expert group was set up to advise us on how to prevent children and young people from being sent abroad involuntarily. We received a report in May 2020 that gave us 45 different recommendations, and many of these recommendations are among what we now consider to be part of a new action plan. I also think it is important, as the representative points out, that we look at measures to prevent this happening, and not least what we can do to support these children and young people when they come back. This is also one of the issues we are working on in the context of the action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1165	In the work carried out by the Progress Party in terms of integration and social control, we have been in contact with many actors, among others. police and representatives from health and school. What is the repeater of all those we talk to about the problem of social control is the competence of everyone who has to do with children and young people. It's a repetition we get from all sides. It is good that it is focused on it in this debate and that the minister himself has been involved. But I'm worried that you work at each other's time and can't get something that's complete for everyone, so that anyone who has contact with children and young people is able to detect and react correctly to social control. I would like to ask the Minister: what does she think is the most important measure of having a comprehensive plan, where everyone in contact with children and young people can react and reveal social control?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1173	That's really a very good question. I think it's a little demanding to highlight one specific measure. I think there's a lot of things that together help us to make better sense that more people both get the help they need and that they get the opportunity to break out if they're subjected to negative social control. Of the individual measures that I think have been most relevant to individuals, there is no doubt that minority advisors have meant a lot. They mean a lot to the individuals they meet, but they also mean a lot by helping to spread skills to more people. I am absolutely sure that teachers and other employees who work in schools where there are minority counselors will have a higher level of competence and then have the opportunity to discover children and young people who need help, and to reach out a hand to them. I also believe that the action we have taken from January this year, with an enhanced resource in the IMFI, can help to coordinate much better. That's when one point you can do to search for knowledge and competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1180	The Council of State had in mind its previous response that minority advisors can mean a lot to those who make contact. Then it's really interesting to know how many minority advisors are in contact with, and how many people are able to help. I find reason to remind the Council of State that the year 2021 has already started, so we have not yet received a new action plan that will apply to the current year. The action plan was drawn up in 2020, which is referred to in the current procedure of the Committee, and the response from the Council of State is that many of these measures should be followed up in the context of the action plan. So my heartfelt appeal to the Council of State is that you finish that work, and that you get to evaluate those proposals, so you get the work started. This work must be ongoing and does not have time to wait. The council said there was great darkness associated with this with negative social control. Why does the government think that we do not need an investigation with the aim of getting a stronger report on children left abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1189	Now there were several questions in this article. At least I can start by reassureing the representative that, although the new action plan is not yet complete, it does not mean that the measures are pending. On the contrary, many measures have been reinforced, including: with the State budget, such as the scheme of minority advisors, which has been extended from 2021 and which has been stepped up sharply in recent years. Some of the reasons for the delay are the pandemic, which means that it has been very difficult to have some meetings that we wanted to have, because it is important, not only to get the best measures, but also to be well anchored. It is quite important that as many people as possible know this plan and know what we're working on. I can assure the representative that this work is going on with full strength and that the action plan will be presented as soon as possible. In the case of children abroad, a large report was just submitted to us in May 2020. We are looking at what proposals from the report it is relevant to follow up in the new action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1196	I think the Council of State is right in saying there's darkness in this area, as it's generally about violence, and it's important to notice. But the council also says that she believes this arrangement with minority advisors might be some of the things that can work very positively, and so does SV. That is why we have a proposal in this position to extend the scheme to upper secondary schools, not just as a pilot project, but to do this throughout, and to extend the mandate to be more preventive than it is today. Today it's more reactive, that is, when it's almost too late – yes, it's about getting late as early as possible. Prevention should be possible with both parents and young people and children in a much more systematic and consistent way than what is being done today, and not only with the minority communities, but also with the closed religious environments that exist elsewhere. How do the government councils view this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1201	One of the reasons why we understand that there are large numbers of darkness is, among other things, that the number of young people who have approached minority advisors has increased sharply year by year. It's a sign that there are more people who become aware that they can actually get help, and not necessarily that the situation has gotten worse. As far as minority advisors are concerned, I fully agree with Andersen's representative that it is very important that they also work preventively, and that is why it is also part of their mandate today. In addition to providing advice and guidance to pupils individually, one of their main tasks is to implement prevention measures. This could be done, for example, by: are to have conversational groups, it may be to have presentations or instructional arrangements, for both students, employees and parents. So the aim of this scheme is to be a low-threshold service, but also to be a prevention measure that helps to disseminate knowledge and skills, and to raise awareness of the challenges of negative social control. I know that very many places they are also used by people who are subjected to negative social control from religious communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1214	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1221	An important theme that remains in this case is related to children who are involuntarily placed abroad. The background is, of course, complex, but in terms of immigration, it is often based on a desire for the child to grow up in the culture and values of the country of origin, or perhaps — with their eyes — to be protected against the norms and values of our country. What values you want to communicate to your children is basically a private matter. What is not good, however, is to put someone under undue coercion, against his will to be kept away from parents or the nearest family, to be kept away from it as one's own home environment, with friends and schooling. The knowledge that children get about Norway through friends and school gives important and often necessary premises as to what opportunities the child will later have to participate in our society. It's about acquiring language and culture and getting our society's standards under the skin in a good and natural way. In these contexts, of course, the individual case needs to be assessed on the basis of Norwegian legislation in general. Of course, the provisions of the Child Protection Act, the best interests of the child and the international conventions to which we are affiliated are leading. But the jeez doesn't just solve the challenges we're talking about here. In practice, this is a very difficult field affecting the private sphere, where many considerations and social sanctions are available outside official control. In practice, therefore, auxiliaries around the individual case are crucial to the achievement of the objective, namely to help ensure that each child is not subjected to coercion, while ensuring that family relationships are maintained in the best possible way. The work of the government on this field is then also widespread, where a wide range of public agencies are involved. The Government set up an expert group in 2019 to provide advice on this issue, and in 2020 the report ‘It was not just a holiday’, which presented a number of proposals for actions that are now being considered in the context of the development of the Action Plan against Negative Social Control and Honor-related Violence 2021-2024. The main input to this is the work of municipalities through the schools. This is where the public has close contact with the children, this is where absence is discovered, and this is where it is possible to establish offers at such a low threshold that the help work can actually work. Having an opportunity to tell about the problems of your friends or friends while you can expect the matter to be followed up in a smooth and good way is crucial to success. Good relations and high levels of trust are crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1240	I also forgot to thank the proposers instead. I would like to draw attention to the fact that quite a number of such proposals are also being dealt with in different committees, a little in parallel. It's a lot of good initiatives, and I'm very happy about that. But I think we have to remember, when we discuss these things, that we have to talk about those things, not just pretend they're one of us, because they're one of us. These are our children. That's our people. No one else is going to be taught. We're going to take care of those who are affected by this, and then we can't discuss as if this is just a problem that comes with someone, and that they would rather not be here, because then, like, the problem wouldn't have been there. I have been working on the crisis centre movement since the late 1970s, and honour-related violence has existed and also exists in Norway. Every fourth killing in Norway is a partner drop, and very much of this has some of the same mechanisms behind it, sail if it's very rare that it's culturally related, by having a family that also supports this. I think it's incredibly important that the young people and the kids we're talking about now, they're our young people, and that we need to talk so that they're safe on us, make sure that we see them, make sure that we accept them, make sure that we're not most concerned about speaking negatively about the immigrant population, but that we're most concerned about helping them and promoting the freedoms and rights we have sail. It's a long way to go. As the Council of State said, there are many dark numbers in all of these areas. So this is incredibly important. Psychiatric violence can also crack people. I have experienced that with people in Norway who have been in very strict religious environments, where people are not exactly knocked up and threatened to kill them, but where mental violence is so cruel and exclusion so hard that many actually consider taking their own lives. So there are many that need help and be seen. The group for which I find it most difficult to find a good grip is those who are left abroad for various reasons – how we should put in place measures that can actually help those who are in a helpless situation. There have even been people who have hired others to pick up people with power abroad because they have been in a very critical situation. I want to ask the government to look more at that question, both what we can do while they are left abroad, and not least what we can do to help them when they come home.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1253	Negative social control and social and cultural pressures through psychological and physical honour are commonplace for many children and young people in Norway. It creates inequality and alienation – yes, persistent alienation. Such growth breaks with the Workers' Party's struggle for freedom in Norway, with emphasis on equality and equality. No children in Norway will fear such harmful consequences or violence when they grow up in our country. The reality of these children is confirmed in a series of reports by IMDi's minority advisors, in an expert report last spring on persons sent to and left abroad, and not least in reports by individuals who have experienced abuses under the cover of religion or culture and tradition. In the report from Redd Barna “Small Shoes – Great Faith” from 2019, young people told themselves. The opinions go on: have no free will – not allowed to be a child. The report also states that the children do not know Norwegian society. They have a knowledge vacuum that means they don't know what they're missing. So they can't orient themselves in the community we have. And more people have chosen to take an almost inhumane load by standing up. For us, it's hard to understand what it can actually cost to break up with families, friends and the community. It is therefore important that we have organisations such as: The source of help, which has competent people who can assist in such breaking processes. The Workers' Party's proposal to strengthen the Auxiliary Source in the budget in the autumn was not endorsed by the Government Parties or the Advance Party. But we're not giving in. Everyone shall have the freedom to be himself and to participate in the same line in society. The results of the government's efforts confirm with all possible clarity that we are far away, and that means that too many live under growing-up conditions that are unacceptable in our country. That was also why we chose to promote the 15 concrete proposals against social control. Children and young people don't have a lot of time. If we don't act and do more, and do something that's more obvious, more children over an even longer period of time will bear the consequences that we don't act quickly and clearly enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1266	I would like to thank the proposers and the Committee for their thorough work on the proposals that have been put forward in this matter, and also for their majority support for some important points, and for the Committee's support for something important. It's for me that the reality I'm meeting is the basis for me getting engaged. In some cases, children and young people have come to me and told me that they have experienced being left abroad. For example, I can. take the case of a 17-year-old boy who had been left behind in the country of origin of the family for 3 years. It was not a matter where he had contacted the embassy, and where this was registered somewhere. But he was left there and had lost three years of school here, although there had been some kind of education there as well, and he lost contact with friends etc. He was sorry and thought it was badly done by the family, but he would not break with the family or make it a matter. I've met more people who have experienced such cases, and I think it's important to be aware that this is about more than those where you can point out coercion, and where those who are exposed to it will stand out and say that they are forced to be abroad or in the country of origin of the family. I would like to stress that the cases registered via the embassies, where they have made contact, are the extreme cases. The NRK reported, especially in 2017 in several series of reports then – it was about some tens, 50–60, cases in total, which had been notified to the embassies – were, as several have been here, the top of the iceberg and expression of darkness. Those who have studied these dark figures are the Institute for Social Research. In a report entitled Transnational Growth, from 2014, the survey found that over a few years, 3,285 children were sent from Norway and left in 15 other countries — i.e. 3,285. So it's about many more than the visible cases of serious coercion we see. The Progress Party joins in the proposal for Decision V, from the Center Party, the Workers' Party and SV, that we should examine how to launch an enhanced reporting and clarify the scope of action to help all these children, to find out about many more of these cases, so I am very pleased that that point is being adopted today. I'm also very pleased with the point of empowerment in schools. Too many people tell me they haven't heard about this – students who should have heard a lot about it in their everyday school life. So thank you to the committee for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1282	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1295	The size goes to voting. Case No. 1 and 2 were presentations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1361	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1371	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1383	A total of 16 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's Proposal No 1, by Siri Gåsemyr Staalesen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party the proposals No 2–5, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 6-10, from Siri Gåsemyr Staalesen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 11, by Willfred Nordlund on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 12, from Jon Engen-Helgheim on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 13, by Willfred Nordlund on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 14–16, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14–16, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a low-threshold offer of counsellors in secondary schools, with a preventive mandate aimed at putting in place long-term policy-making measures ahead of youth-parent conflict.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks it to change the concept of a minority adviser into a more neutral job title to capture all aspects of negative social control in different environments’.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of a test system with multiple contact in the field of child protection.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1436	There is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a plan for stepping up the number of minority advisors and a national contact point in the context of the State budget for 2022, so that high school students can seek advice from this service regardless of which school they attend.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1453	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a legislative proposal that health checks for children aged zero to 10 years be compulsory and that checks are carried out by weighing and testing without clothing. Unless the child is regularly followed up by the health care system for other reasons, all children and families must meet the prescribed health checks.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1468	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government to clarify the need for further clarification of the disclosure obligations of this and other laws.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1486	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 10, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a guide on the obligation to provide information and to abolish and the rules on exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy in order to strengthen cooperation across the levels of work against negative social control and violence in close relations. In this context, a wide-ranging information campaign on the obligation to inform, report and suppress children needs to be carried out in order to familiarise all those working with children, and the general public otherwise.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for procedures to be put in place for reporting where relevant establishments such as schools, kindergartens, child protection, municipalities, county councils, Nav and others. together to draw up concrete lists of children left behind in the country of origin of the family, so that the embassies can examine the situation of the Norwegian children in the countries for which they are responsible.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1510	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 8 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals for legislative amendment or, in the form of regulations, to clarify that negative social control can also trigger the obligation to provide information on child protection. Section 6-4 of the Children's Protection Act, and the abolition obligation, cf. Section 196 of the Penal Code.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government requests the extension of the mandate of the follow-up service to monitor and report on suspicion of forced placement abroad.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1534	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal for a new system for the prior approval of primary education abroad in order to ensure the child’s access to adequate education quality.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1549	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–5, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to return to the Stortinget, by 2022 at the latest, with a plan for stepping up the number of minority advisors, so that high school students can seek advice from this service regardless of which school they attend. The government is also asked to assess whether its own minority advisors should be added to individual secondary schools.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for guidelines to ensure that resource teams are quickly connected when children have undocumented absences from school, in order to ensure the child’s right to education.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose amendments to the law to ensure that the authorities can better follow-up and help children who are left abroad, regardless of the country in which the child resides.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in developing a sound methodology and coordination between public authorities in international matters relating to children who are being left abroad, in order to ensure their cross-border work and their integration.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1583	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with proposals for legislative changes to ensure that parents who systematically and deliberately impede their children’s compulsory schooling are penalised financially through daily subsistence allowances and child allowances for the entire period of undocumented school leave for their child’.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1620	Behind the setting is the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The government parties, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1654	It's over V. Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1668	It shall be added to III, IV and VI. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-18.ana.ud24e1758	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
