ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e28	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e35	On behalf of Marit Arnstad, Siv Mossleth, Geir Adelsten Iversen, Sandra Borch, Liv Signe Navarsete, Jenny Klinge, Nils T. Bjørke and myself, I would like to make a proposal to reform the financing of the ferry and fast boat offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e40	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e56	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e65	We are approaching one year after the Korona epidemic really hit Norway and hit us all. We've had closure, we've had measures, we've met with this in all parts of society. Everyone's affected. But we're different, and it's focused: how does a society respond to such a situation? The young have experienced suffocation and closed schools. The students get a completely different working day. The lonely have experienced more solitude. Those who are vulnerable and have experienced care failure have experienced more of it, and those who were vulnerable before the coronary crisis have become more vulnerable during the coronary crisis. There has been a magnifying glass of injustices and vulnerabilities in our society. Those who may be the most affected throughout their lives are those who have lost their jobs. The Labour Party has had as its guide in policy-making that no one should face the crisis alone. We have supported more fairer crisis packages for those who are being permitted, and corrected it, and we have supported that businesses get accurate packages that help them through the crisis. In the preparation of these packages – compensation schemes for enterprises, oil packages, etc. – we have stressed that no dividends, redundancies or high management salaries should be charged to the companies receiving them. It has to do with justice, it has to do with decency when the community sets up in a splinter layer. Those proposals have been rejected. Most companies have followed these rules, because they are in a crisis situation, and because they act in a way that is in line with propriety and justice. It destroys for everyone that someone violates these rules – taking huge dividends, taking out management wages, breaking a propensity principle. Now the Storting will adopt a new package. Will the Prime Minister, this time, facilitate such demands, so that the beneficiaries also contribute to the fissure layer?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e78	Let me start by saying that I fully agree with the representative of the Støre that this is a pandemic that reinforces the challenges we have in society for the rest of the world, and that hits differently. There are many who have had to work a lot and have had intensive and demanding working days, but those who have suffered the most and the worst are those who have lost the job, those who have uncertainty about where they get income from in the future. I think we all have it with us in working on how we contribute to economic security, but also contribute to the prospects for the future. In particular, because many of the sectors that have been hit hardest, are the sectors with the lowest-educated, which have perhaps the most demanding connection to the labour market, it has been important for the government to initiate measures that help them to have better and stronger links with the labour market. One of those things is to raise the level of continuing training. Unfortunately, we see that too few people report to it, even if they needed it. It is reported in the media that approx. three hundred lay-offs have enrolled in continuing training to meet their needs. It's too little. I am therefore pleased that the social partners have said that they will help to underline this even more strongly after we have met in the Contact Committee. With regard to the issue of the strength of regulation for which arrangements can be made by companies receiving support, it is important to bear in mind that for strong regulation in those areas also poses challenges for jobs and businesses. If we were to have a ban on downgrading the activity and because someone who was on leave is going to get laid off, it's going to be a harder basis for moving forward. It's been one of our starting points for this. We want these schemes to benefit as much as possible, but there must also be sufficient flexibility for us to have healthy businesses afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e87	This is the big blind zone of the right-hand side. They don't see what this does with trust. They don't see that ordinary people who are going to pay their electricity bill get a worse economy, they have to do this every month. Permitted people have a lower economy, it took a long time for them to get their daily allowance – the companies have received their money after a short time, in the compensation scheme. Now there's going to be a pension from the first heads – another theme – it's going to be 2025–2026, so it's going to take a long time. This is linked to a trust question, that all parts of the burden. All the companies that act legitimately here show moderation, don't take dividends, don't pay high management wages, are also affected by the fact that some companies take large dividends, companies that didn't need compensation, and receive compensation. The experience after 2010, the financial crisis then, was that the measures lost much of their trust because people felt it was unfair. They weren't the same rules, they were hit differently. Why does the Prime Minister not then want to learn from one year's experience when we are going to adopt a new crisis package this week, and be involved in measures that are going to bring this about so that they do not destroy the many?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e94	Now the crisis package is for treatment in Stortinget. When I stress that there are some challenges to this, it's because I just have the interest of most people in front of me. If a hotel that has been helped to get through this crisis, yet sees that the next two years they will have lower coatings, it will be natural for them now to say that they cannot have fixed employment of all the ones they had before. If they don't, using a permitting scheme where all the redundancies come in retrospect will in a way create greater challenges. There is some flexibility that is needed. We have been very clear in the message that we believe one must be moderate and preferably not take dividends. We've asked you to do that, and we see companies that also pay back. When it comes to the story of Jonas Gahr Støre, I feel that there's more campaign than it really is, because there's something we've done in that story behind us, it's just that we've got to Nav and they're paying off redundancy payments, that they're making arrangements that made that were advance arrangements, that haven't been done before. People got money in their pockets faster now than during the financial crisis, precisely because the government did faster, despite stronger demands from the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e103	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e108	The point is that the Prime Minister is not following up. She hopes for moderation, expects it to be, it won't be, but she doesn't do anything more about it. Four weeks ago, we were standing here and had a dedicated discussion about holiday money for the lay-offs. The Prime Minister was committed to this. Her employment policy figure called it crazy to pay holiday pay to those who have left the job. Then, I think, the Prime Minister and the Progress Party have seen people react to this. It is unfair that those affected remain standing without this right. Then they've come up with a hybrid solution, that there's going to be a cash amount for those who have gone out on the basis of the corona in 2020 and 2021. I don't call it madness, but it's crazy solution. It's not rights, it's a worse solution. We're probably going to see people who are being permitted as a result of the corona, also into 2022 – unfortunately. There may be bankruptcy in the autumn of 2021. But those who are on leave and arrive in the summer of 2022 get nothing because the prime minister's arrangement is just a one-off payment. Is this fair? Does the Prime Minister think it's fair in 2021, but not in 2022?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e117	The working party has been in favour of a holiday pay scheme that gives less money to those who are long-term, long-term unemployed. We made a reform in 2015 that helped to ensure that those who had been on leave, but who had returned to work, had the opportunity and just had the security of their income in the future, got no more vacation money, but we used that proceeds, and we made sure that those who were long-term unemployed actually got a better payment. It was quite well documented in a debate at the NRC that those who were in the most vulnerable situation, namely the long-term-permitted, actually came out better with that scheme. Then we've seen that now there are many who are going to be on leave for a long time, but who hopefully, because the measures are going to work, are going to be able to get back to work in the summer. That's why it's going to be a big group for which it would be right to find some solutions, and we've done that together with the Progress Party, by making a one-time solution this year. But it is still the case that for those long-term and those on daily pay, what the government has been in favour of is better than what the Workers' Party has stood for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e124	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e129	So this debate we had four weeks ago. This applies to those who are long-term unemployed. There are tens of thousands of people who have been deprived of rights under the regime of the Prime Minister. Now there's going to be a one-time payment, and how she's going to answer out the tens of thousands that might be out of business in the summer of 2022, we're now going to look at. I want to follow up this question a little bit about the madness in it, because that's what the Right has argued with regard to the right to get holiday money as a permit. Has this, which we have experienced in 2020 and 2021, changed the Prime Minister's view on this issue, compared to the argument in 2015 when that right was deprived? It has been common for civil governments to withdraw that right – we have returned it again – and the argument was that by not having holiday money on a day-to-day basis, they were given a greater incentive to apply for a job. Has the experience with the coronary apathy, the situation people are in, changed the situation? The Prime Minister has otherwise asked for a permit to cancel the job and look for a job. Is there any more of that by taking away from them this right?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e137	I have not encouraged anyone to cancel the job. I think the representative of the Workers' Party should actually cover that. I have said that if you are on leave, you must also apply for a job, but that is not the same as cancelling the job. I think it's right that you're right to quote other politicians. I believe that the reform we had in 2015 was right. Now we just put forward a perspective message that shows that we're going to have to work more to get the room for action. We made a better arrangement for those who were long-term unemployed, long-term trainees. If you are long-term-permitted in the summer of 2022, i.e. you have been on leave for more than one year, you will get better out of the system we have now, than with the system that the Workers' Party lost to maintain in 2015, and that they, as a red-green government, reintroduced after the Bondevik government also took it away at an earlier date. We sometimes have to choose between what arrangements we're going to have within the public budgets. Then schemes that help the long-term unemployed return to education and provide income protection are a higher priority for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e146	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e151	If you are on leave and are going to take a different job, you will necessarily have to cancel the job you were on leave. We have an example of that right now. A woman named Malin Stavsøien was head of the northeastern restaurant in Trondheim. She did as the Prime Minister said, she was looking for another job. She quit her job, got two part-time jobs, and then she got a permit from there as well. She was then asked to wait until she could receive a daily allowance. Why did she get that decision from Nav? Well, because there was no "reasonable reason" to quit. She did just that, she was looking for other jobs, which everyone on leave does, they're always thinking, is there another job? So she was hit by a waiting time. It's unfair, it's unfair, and it actually has the majority here in the Biggest now seen to be unfair. There is now a proposal in the Storting for which there can be a majority that that waiting time should not apply. Why does the Prime Minister not join that majority and lift the obvious injustice?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e158	This is an example of getting a new job before giving up the job. It's something other than what the representative tried to quote me falsely, in the previous line. Yeah, there'll probably be some challenges to this, and we're willing to look at those kinds of challenges and see if our systems are properly connected, but we have to stimulate people to get into work. We need to stimulate people to move to get to work. We will see changes in the labour market in the years to come. Then we hope that even more people actually get ready for the labour market we see, and use the opportunities we have now given, with a very large tool, to take more education, learn more during the leave, make sure to get better at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e165	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e170	The discussion of increasing differences is going to be important: the differences between those who have a job and those who have lost their job, between those who are at home and those who are on leave, and students who lose important parts of their study. We must all be concerned about that debate in the future. Norwegian municipalities have played an important role in the Korona epidemic, both large and small. They've taken responsibility, they've taken action, they've turned around, and now they're in the process of vaccination. Local democracy in Norway works, and that's good. But the municipalities have also played a role financially. They have helped a lot of those that the state has not reached, those who have fallen through the state support schemes. There can be individual enterprises, small and start-ups, volunteering, culture — a lot. In the period ahead of us, municipalities will also be able to play an important role for many of these. Why, then, will not the government also help to strengthen the local government's economy through local industrial funds and crisis loans?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e179	First, I want to stress that I fully agree that the issue of inequality related to being inside or outside the labour market is incredibly important, and it is going to be reinforced after the pandemic. I guess that's the mantra I've repeated for many years from this pulpit, that the biggest inequality in Norway is between those who have jobs and those who don't have jobs. That's why it's so important that we both work on the line of work and equip people to come back to work. It'll become even more important in the future that we take care of it. I fully agree that municipalities have a more flexible and easier opportunity to help people directly, both because they are closer to people, closer to businesses, and because they can be more flexible in their means of doing this. That's why we've put a billion into the proposal that's been going for the big deal related to money where there's been a lot of shut-down. This is because good business-oriented action can be taken more easily. There's a billion to be treated in the Storting for this, and then the Storing will agree if there's one billion, or if there's more, and the guidelines for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e186	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e191	Yesterday, Stortinget discussed a proposal from the Progress Party and SV related to the regulation of pensions. Fortunately, there was a broad majority who did something about the regulation mechanism, which has been perceived as very unfair for hundreds of thousands of pensioners. But what was disappointing was that the proposal for an obliging escalation plan for the country's minimum pensioners in order to reach the poverty line defined by the EU would not be included in either the Workers' Party, the Centre Party or the government parties. There are 138 000 minimum pensioners in Norway. Many of them are women, and they have become minimum pensioners because they lived at a time when it was very common for women to be at home. Their work was at home, caring for children, taking care of the house, etc., and it was quite common in society at that time. But it has the consequence that they are now living as minimum pensioners, far below what the EU itself defines as a poverty line. I understand that many of them have difficulties financially, but what I don't understand is why the majority in the Grand Duchy, led by the government parties and the Right, won't be on a kind, yet obliging escalation plan. It is not a strong uplift, but it should raise the minimum pensioners from today’s very low level, to around DKK 200 000, and up to what the EU has defined as a poverty line. I would like the Prime Minister to explain to all the minimum pensioners who are now sitting and following this questioning, why she and the government parties would not make such a contribution to the country's minimum pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e202	In recent years, we have raised the minimum pension in addition to the ordinary regulation, which for minimum pensioners is thus a different regulation from the underregulation for other pensioners, with NOK 16 000 or NOK 17 000, I think, through the budgetary comparisons we have had on the Storting – some with the opposition when the Progress Party put in government, i.e. with the Christian People's Party and the Left, and some with the Advance Party when we made the budget in the autumn. Then we've put it into the budgetary situation we're in. We've done it this way, but having an escalation plan is a little bit more related to the question: What do we think the pension scheme should be in the future? It is important to say that we made a major pension reform, which I respect for the fact that the Progress Party was not part of, but is the guarantee of sustainable pensions for the future. It is the guarantee that young people will not meet enormously higher tax requirements in the future, because we have a better balance between income and expenditure in our pension system as well, and it motivates people to stay longer in work. We spent it almost ten years on, from we put down the first sample, until it came into force, because pensions have such big pieces of change by themselves. Providing new guarantees for minimum pensioners, where we are to step up, will mean a flare-up of the entire pension system. I fully agree that there are many who have made an effort in our society, who have challenges in becoming minimum pensioners, but there are several of them with the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the SV. Several of the women who in periods of their lives were at home with young children, and who received supplementary pensions, precisely because we as a society said that being at home with young children has a social value, and therefore we give them extra pension, will be the minimum pensioners if we step up that proposal. One eats up the pension benefits of many groups that have had a professional participation. Then I think we have to see things in a context. We've set up a pension committee, where the largest parties on the Stortinget are represented. We believe that major changes in the pension system should be made in a comprehensive way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e215	These are not major changes to a pension scheme. This is about facilitating the ability of those living far below today’s poverty line to pay their bills. I now get many enquiries from minimum pensioners, very often ladies, who fear the coming power bill, who wonder if they can pay it at all, who turn off the power and sit and freeze because they simply don't get the ends to meet. Then I think it feels like a very thin comfort when the Prime Minister points to a sample that will work for several years before it's possible to do something about the economic situation these pensioners are in now. The current bill is now coming. I understand that the Prime Minister is not interested in establishing an obliging escalation plan to strengthen the economy of the minimum pensioners, but the next question is: Will the government consider a support scheme for vulnerable groups that now experience the electricity bill as being very intertwining in the family economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e223	First, I want to say that increasing the minimum pension means we're out of the pension scheme. That means that people who have the job don't get the value of what they've paid for. I honestly believed that the Progress Party also believed that what was paid into the system was to be reflected in what you got out of the system. It will not do with these proposals. We've made some changes, precisely because we've seen that the minimum pensioners need a boost, but if we're going to do it systematically in the future, we're going to be on a system where the population's interest is flat, and the supplementary pension has to be earned in the rest of the world of work. That's the way we go. We've been there gradually, it was a desire to stop that development with the new pension reform and make sure that what we get was more predictable. An increase in the minimum pension of the type you want to step up here will be, among other things. means that with the new pension scheme, those with guarantee pensions, the new minimum pension, will come out at a much lower level than those with the minimum pensioners in the old system, so it is important to see things in a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e230	There will be follow-up questions – first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e235	Yesterday I met the leader of Young Left, Sondre Hansmark, in debate at the NRK. He clearly believes that there are today's pensioners who are going to help fund the welfare system of the future. From what I now hear the Prime Minister say, she is far on the way to agree with the leader of the Young Left, that if we are to manage to finance our future well-being, it is the pensioners who are the group of people who are to bear the financial burden. Is the Prime Minister also of the opinion, or does she think that there are other more important drivers in our economy who can help close the funding gap pointed out by the government in the perspective communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e240	The biggest financial burden of our pension system is going to be those who are younger than Siv Jensen to pay. It is those who are in the 20s and 30s today, who have to work much longer and get a much less pension out of the pension system, as it is in the pension reform. That the pensioners today, and those of us who are in the old pension system, through the living-age adjustment and the regulatory systems, contribute to that funding because it has been indifferent, I think it is fair and fair. In particular, I think it is important that we keep the labour incentives in the pension system. In fact, the most important part of the pension reform is to stimulate people to work. The proposals that the representative is now addressing are proposals that contribute to less incentives to work and increase the funding gap in the future. We can do a lot of other things to help more people work, but with the suggestions the Progress Party makes, you take away the reward in retirement because you've been working.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e245	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e250	But my question was whether the Prime Minister believes there are other things in the Norwegian economy that can help finance the future's welfare, other than today's pensioners. It obviously doesn't mean the prime minister. Speaking of it, why does the government in the recent perspective report support the cost of the welfare society related to the life-cycle costs of non-Western immigration? We know that the 203 000 non-Western immigrants who have come in the last ten years have a life-cycle cost of 2,300 billion. kr. That's money, too. First amanunensis Espen Henriksen at BI is very critical of the government's argument. He says, at best, the Ministry of Finance uses professionally unsustainable methods. They do not present professional arguments based on recognised methods that would suggest that immigration is favourable from a state-funded point of view. What has happened from the arguments contained in the previous perspective message to this perspective message?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e259	I just want to make it clear that I think there are many more things we're going to do for the future funding gap than just changing the pension. Perhaps the most important thing, and what is the main message, is to make sure that more people are at work. Then all of our arrangements must contribute to more people's jobs. The pension system also needs to stimulate people to work. The Progress Party is going in the wrong direction with the proposals it has. This could have been done if you had a whole idea about it, but piecefully shared for the pension system for people, I really think it's a very wrong recipe to meet new generations with. With regard to the notification of the perspective, it is that labour immigration to Norway has contributed positively, because people come as work immigrants of adult age. That means that the entire investment we have early, we're getting rid of it. In the case of asylum seekers and others, there is another calculation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e266	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e271	In the perspective communication, the government now assumes that increased immigration makes a positive financial contribution to government finances. After all, the government must assume that the immigration to Norway will come mainly from all countries other than the non-Western countries, because we know that non-Western immigration costs society more. We know that employment is low – the employment rate of non-Western immigrants is well below 50 pst. Many of them live on benefits paid by other taxpayers, and we also know that we spend huge amounts in every state budget to improve integration. What's happened? Is it now that the government actually believes that future immigration to Norway is a positive contribution to government finances, or does the Prime Minister recognise the long-term challenges of non-Western immigration actually provide our state finances?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e278	What is in the perspective communication is that labour migration makes a financial contribution. Asylum and quota refugees are spending in the future, because it is much more difficult. Integration policy in Norway is concentrated on the last part. For this reason, the government is concerned that in areas related to asylum and integration policies, we need to have a tight attitude and a tight policy in the future, precisely because there is a need for protection, and we need to work to get everyone to work. If we can get even more of them to work, it's a net piece, but it's the need for protection that's the basis. So labour immigration gives us a net positive contribution. Think about one thing that I think we sometimes forget in the district discussion we now have: it's among other things. so that labour migration has contributed to slowing down population depopulation in a large number of municipalities and to increasing numbers of them in order to be able to work and create values in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e285	Erlend Wiborg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e291	I am pleased that yesterday the Progress Party, together with SV, had a good impact on creating a more decent pension system. At the same time, I am disappointed that the Prime Minister's party and the government contributed to the failure of the government to raise the country's minimum pensioners above the poverty line. Today we know that the median income in Norway is about NOK 550 000. A lone minimum pensioner serves approx. NOK 205000. The Prime Minister, in his argument earlier today, used sustainability as an argument for why minimum pensioners cannot be raised to the poverty line. So it's the least-pension pensioners who are going to contribute to sustainability. Does the Prime Minister think that the generational perspective is being safeguarded when such a large proportion of pensioners have to live well below the poverty line?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e298	One important thing to remember is that with 205000 kroner of income you don't pay taxes. There are many peculiarities that you don't pay in the system. The real value of a minimum pensioner is much higher than that of comparing it with other bases. Many of the comparison statistics in Norway remove the fact that we have quite a lot of redistribution through the way we provide services to, for example: groups of retired persons. I understand that the Progress Party now wants to focus a lot on the minimum pension. They were not followers of a pension reform. What's most interesting about the deal we've made is that SV and the Progress Party are now in favour of underregulation of pensions. It is said that a different underregulation has been agreed – I saw headlines saying: Now Frp has stopped the underregulation. No, it's just another principle. That is actually the principle they opposed when the Bondevik II government presented its proposal for pension reform. So the ones that have moved most in this context are actually the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e305	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e310	In the reply before, the Prime Minister said that she was concerned with people most of her interests and had them in front of her. One of the most unfair parts of our pension system is that most people don't get the service of the first $100,000. Now the government parties have turned around and seen that it makes sense to introduce it, but not until 2023, and then you have to spend three years introducing this, so it's only in 2026 that people will get earned full of their $100,000. The cost of this is NOK 2000 and now the Government also proposes that temporary financial compensation be introduced for those employers who have to pay NOK 2000. Wouldn't it make sense to do this now, in 2021, if you had people most of their interests in front of you?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e317	Let me start with the story behind this. The working party is trying to say that we have been against. No, we have been opposed to a unilateral decision by the Storting to put down without having looked at the consequences. That is why we initially thought that the parties should negotiate on this, because this has a high cost for small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in the areas that are now most affected by the pandemic. It is the tourism industry and the nightlife industry that will receive the greatest burden when you introduce a pension from the first penny. The working party has never talked about how to compensate these, never had an idea, they've only reduced 3 billion. in Norwegian business – in a good tradition related to what they do. On the other hand, we, together with the Progress Party, have said that we need to take compensatory measures, and we need to put it in place at a time when we believe that these industries are up and after a difficult period. One thing is that we're going to have all the laws and all the things in place to do that, but we also have to make sure that the jobs don't go away because we're putting too much burden on an industry that's already struggling.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e324	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e329	For a long time, the Right has been opposed to Norwegian laws guaranteeing Norwegian national ownership. There has been a long historical conflict. The right was contrary to the concession law in its time, which guaranteed ownership of our footfalls, our forest, our soil. The right then chose to call it panic vows when you guaranteed ownership. But there are some things that go in circles, and as soon as the Right came into government again in 2013, there was an attack on the concession laws. Erna Solberg and the Sylvi Listhaug of the Progress Party were so historyless that they proposed to remove the entire concession law, which would guarantee national ownership of land and forest – it would be free. Last week, the police security service came with a new threat assessment, through various threat images for the Norwegian state, for the Norwegian community. One of the things that they clearly lifted up there, and that they warned against, was that Chinese and Russian interests actively want to have purchases of Norwegian properties, natural resources, Norwegian companies. They underlined that they have already begun to learn that foreign actors began to buy up strategically important properties in Norway. It could not be more clearly stated from the Police Security Service where active foreign states and foreign powers are to ensure ownership in Norway and that there was a security policy risk. Then my question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister agree that there is a security policy risk that Russia and other actors, such as China, buy Norwegian landowners, or does the Prime Minister still believe it is wise that it should be free to own Norwegian land, Norwegian forests and Norwegian waters?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e338	Firstly, I would like to stress that this particular issue was an important part of the new safety legislation when we created new safety laws, that we made sure that we had a modern, up-to-date safety law that saw the new challenges. Of course, on the basis of the Security Act, it is possible for us, based on a safety assessment, to make regulations related to the takeover of areas. It's a slightly simple and simplified variant of what Right's history in this area is, related to how we've organized and are concerned with ownership in different areas. For example, we were. for the consolidation model when it came, although we have seen that it has posed challenges for the development of some energy resources. Fortunately, we have been able to make assumptions within that which makes it possible. So it's not a discussion about the sale of e.g. Norwegian waterworks abroad. They're under the control of the public at the moment. So there has to be a clear safety policy justification. The fact that new challenges have arisen, we can deal with them through the legislation we have. That is why we are also going through all strategic areas where it is important to ensure, for example, that: national ownership or secure public ownership of areas, what are security areas. This is a follow-up to the security law we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e347	One of the most radical proposals made by Prime Minister Erna Solberg in the last growing-up period was that one should remove the entire concession plan, it should be clear who would own Norway. Fortunately, Stortinget stopped it. Perhaps the Storting had read a little more history than the government had done, but the Right unfortunately has a bad story on it. What we see now is that Chinese interests are interested in ensuring control of Norwegian ports. It's a railway project in which many of us are lobbied in the main hall now, as there are Chinese interests behind it, they want to have control of it. We know that the government has actively contributed to making Chinese interests build major Norwegian transport projects. In my own hometown, Romedal, a Chinese billionaire has tried to buy large forest properties. He has been stopped thanks to the concession law and has only been purchased very little. The police security service also warns against ownership interests in Norwegian companies. Erna Solberg suggested as Prime Minister that we sell large holdings in the weapons company Kongsberg Gruppen, an important Norwegian technology company. Is the Prime Minister happy that that authority was stopped by Stortinget, or does she still think it is wise to sell herself into the Kongsberg Group?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e356	We have put forward a plan for ownership. We're going to have a minority championship in the Kongsberg Group, which we're still busy with. But it's important for the Kongsberg Group and for other companies that there is also an opportunity to enter into strategic alliances. After all, part of the restructuring related to the Kongsberg Group ended. with that they bought up Rolls-Royce, and so they got a bigger maritime foothold, but you can imagine that at some point companies need to go into strategic alliances. That's why I'm saying that our relationship to ownership is probably a little black-and-white drawn. Among other things, we have justified national need to have head office control, regulatory development and research departments to have a minority position where we can prevent changes in company rules and the location of the company, for example. head office as part of state ownership. It's a motive why the state should have ownership of some big companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e363	There will be follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e369	The reason why the Centre Party addresses this issue is the police security service’s clear warning regarding the relationship with Norwegian natural resources and infrastructure and the risk of buying-in, among others. from the Chinese side. Sometimes those questions come to the fore. Last autumn, 590,000 decires of forest were sold out by Norway, to Germany. It represents a significant share of the property in Namdalen, and nothing prevents the resale of the property from German interests to, for example, Russian or Chinese interests. It can be done because of a loophole in the law. It suggested the Senterpartie to close. The Right Party and the Advance Party went against – yes, they did not even want to take part in the debate on this in Stortinget. The right parliamentary leader said in a previous change of words with me, last autumn, that he does not think it has so much to say if forests in Norway are owned by Norwegian or foreign interests, because the forest is there anyway. In the light of PST's warnings, does the Prime Minister share the position of his parliamentary leader?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e374	I think it's very important to distinguish between what are strategic, safety important installations and places. I mean, for example. ports are an important area of infrastructure, for which it is important that we also have a safety policy assessment. I am thinking about all of our vulnerability areas, the electricity supply, both computer networks and power grids near installations that are safety policy important. I have not heard that the E-service has at any time notified the government – and they do – that the forest in Namdalen is of security policy importance in such a way that it would prevent foreigners from owning it there. We also have to make sure that we use these arguments where they are relevant in terms of strategic and security policy. We get alerts if there are changes, and we do government assessments if there are security-related sensitive areas that we actually have to do something about. The Namdalen has never notified the E service.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e379	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e384	I think this actually clarifies the Right's views quite nicely. Soil and forest are not important natural resources; they are not strategic natural resources for the Right. It is the same as what types of interests it owns, whether it is national interests, whether it is Chinese, Russian or who it might be. I think it was good to get that clarification. The warnings of PST come in the light of the interest of the major powers in the north, and one of these major acts is the EU. They have now made it clear that they do not respect the right of Norwegian sovereigns to set fishing quotas in the Svalbard protection zone. Norway established one quota and the EU decided on a much higher quota and blew in the Norwegian determination. Norway has protested about this, and it should only be lacking; it is, after all, about the right to manage our fishing resources. But can the Prime Minister guarantee that Norway will not make a fall for the EU at this point, and that all catches beyond what Norway has set as a quota will be suspended, fined and sanctioned by the Coast Guard?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e391	I just want to stress that the EU is not listed by the PST or the E service that we fear, or that we have security policy challenges related to their image of what is difficult – just so we have the clarity that it was the starting point. The EU is probably something else. It's allies, it's people we have security cooperation with, it's countries we're working with. Then we have some conflicts, and one of the conflicts is what we've been protesting about, the unilateral fixing of fish quotas. We believe that there is an infringement of Norwegian rights. It is a breach of the EU's obligations to the Convention on the Law of the Sea, and we are taking it seriously. We're going to follow it up. We've followed it up with protests and taken it up at the political level directly. Of course, that's how we don't want to accept it. That means we want to check those fishing boats. If we do not agree with the EU on how to manage this, and they accept it, we must also withdraw and fine boats using those quotas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e398	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e403	The pandemic is also a disparate crisis, because as far as the economic consequences of the crisis are concerned, there is no good. There are workers who pay the highest price, while at the top of the Norwegian society too many are doing well – wealth is created on the stock exchange. Permitted and unemployed and the most vulnerable, on the other hand, struggle to get the ends to meet. According to the most recent figures, there are now 209 000 unemployed in Norway, and more than 23 000 have been outsourced since the beginning of the crisis. For many of those who struggle the most, the economic situation has become a little better because the opposition has intervened several times and taken control of the economic management of the crisis. For many, however, it's now that it's coming to light, especially for those who've been on leave for a long time. The savings are spent – for those who had some of it – the collection issues are increasing, the electricity price goes to heaven. It's hard for more and more people to pay the bills. There's only one thing that can ease that situation right now, and that's to make sure that the unemployed get a little more living off. That's why my question to the Prime Minister today is whether she will agree to allow the perms to retain something more of their income by increasing the daily allowance, now that many have been on the perms for a very long time, and are struggling enormously financially.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e410	With the decisions on daily allowances and other items, the compensation for the lowest income, including the holiday allowance, will amount to approx. 88 pst. It's a very high compensation, much higher than the normally 62.5 pst. which has been previously linked to this. We have, from the government's side, gone in to continue with these arrangements until 1 July, the Stortinge decided on 1 October. It's more of a question of how long we think the pandemic and its effects will last. We are prepared to set up actions all the way. But when you get 88 pst. compensation, it's one of the very best compensation schemes we've ever had for people who are out of work and who are out of work. So I'm not sure what you're thinking about here. With regard to the issue of housing support and energy costs, we in the government have said that we are open to looking at it when we see a little over time how the costs of energy this year will be, in the same way that we have done it before by adding extra elements into, for example. the housing aid scheme for the most vulnerable groups. But they're not among those who're licensed today. Most of them are not in the housing support position, and they get a pretty high compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e417	I'm going to be very concrete. Most of those who are out of work and now unemployed come from low-paid workers. It's hotel and restaurant workers, it's shop workers, it's people who've been employed in aviation and travel. That's not how they get to keep 80 pst. of all their income, they may retain 80 pst. up to 3G, i.e. a little over 300000 kroner. The SV's proposal is to increase that scheme, so you can keep 80 pst. up to 4G, a little over 400000 kroner, which will ensure that the people who are on leave and the unemployed get about $1,500 more to go with this month. There would be an important helping hand in the very narrow economic situation many are in right now. My question to the Prime Minister is: Will she be involved in increasing the proportion of the income that the unemployed can receive 80 pst. by, now that so many are struggling to get the ends to meet?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e426	I believe that we have a very good arrangement for the lay-off. We have one of the best arrangements. It has some negative sides, among other things. in some companies, e.g. in Nordic groups, there are such good permitting arrangements in Norway that it is easier to permit here than in other countries. It also creates some challenges when the activity comes up. I believe that the arrangements we have now are favourable, and we have not encouraged Stortingen to propose any other and better arrangements related to this. It's in Stortinget now, and then the big parties have to discuss it. So basically, we now have a very favourable system for those with the lowest income, and when the holiday money is now put on top of it, we're up in compensation for those who are at the lowest level, at 88 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e435	There will be follow-up questions – first the Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e441	It doesn't help so much if you don't have the money to pay the bills, that the Prime Minister says the system is favourable, for many of those who are unemployed now, have so low wages initially that it's very difficult to get the ends to meet. It's just to look at the statistics on debt collection alerts, it's just to look at the rising electricity price – then you can see that the challenge is real. I feel that the Prime Minister says no to that proposal and plays the ball over to Stortinget, and then it's important for the Biggest parties to listen to it, because then the Biggest should once again agree to do something for the unemployed, which the government won't do. The Prime Minister mentioned housing support, and I was also going to ask about that. For many who have financial problems right now, the bout poisons are a very heavy burden. Under Erna Solberg, fewer people have been given housing support. Less is granted in nominal kroner of housing aid now than it did in 2013. Last year the Stortinget got a crisis package with more housing support, which meant that 13,000 more people got. Will the Prime Minister be involved again?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e452	The question of housing aid is primarily a question of energy prices if we are to make changes to it. We've said that we're open to, but we'll see progress a little bit in the future, to see if it's natural to compensate. We are in a slightly different situation than what we were the last time we increased the housing allowance, which I think was in 2019. Then, because of the drought, we had very low water levels in the warehouses. We had assumed that it was going to be high energy prices for a long time. Now we have magazines that are almost running over. As I have said before, the eastern countries were far sighing over the rainy weather last autumn. It's stacked up, so we have a lot of power, but we've had a cold period where the power prices have been very high. But if this is an annual situation that persists, we simply need to look at it a little bit, to see if there is a need to compensate for housing support.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e459	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e464	It's true that we mountainers tolerate more rain, but it's not quite right that it's just the energy prices that are the challenge for those who get housing support. What's happened on Erna Solberg's guard is that there's far fewer living quarters than before, and it's in a period when the marshals have increased. Therefore, in a crisis period, it would now be very appropriate to do what several opposition parties have entered into, with SV at the head: temporarily increasing the income limit. I want to ask the Prime Minister also about what is happening at the top of the Norwegian society, because while there are now tough demands on the unemployed or on those who have the highest budget charges, we see that in the case of large companies that receive state crisis support, but are taking dividends or going to resign, the tolerance of the government is very great. It's a form of socialism for the rich Erna Solberg is involved. Will she now consider tougher demands for the largest companies, which receive a lot of state support?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e473	Those companies that receive a lot of state support receive state support because there is a crisis in their sector. That large groups, as part of the hotel groups, get paid money is because they are large employment sets, but they don't have customers, we've almost blocked tourism to Norway. It's to keep these companies running. So I think all companies need to be aware that it is important to make sure that this money contributes to one thing, namely getting through the crisis and being strengthened to take back their perms and get people to work. That's why they get a lot of money. With regard to the question of housing support, I would just like to say that it is true that there is a little less to housing support, but those who receive housing support get more. We've increased the housing support for the individual, and then we've taken away the group that had an income development that made them no longer deserve housing support, they were outside the framework, with a faster system. That means that those who have the most needs get more today than they got before.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e482	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e487	I'm not completely done with socialism for the rich. If a titter on the compensation scheme, it is – and it becomes clearer and clearer – richer for the few at the expense of the many. When you look at the figures for the first compensation scheme last year, the eleven largest companies got as much as 25 000 small and medium-sized enterprises. For the new scheme, preliminary figures seem to show that the five largest have received almost half. At the same time, we see that a company can get e.g. hundreds of millions in support and at the same time provide notices to hundreds of employees. It is in a situation where it is possible for large companies with rich owners to also raise money in the capital market. That is why many economists and SV ask if it is not time to put a roof on how much the biggest can get, so that we may also spend some of that money on social measures and on small and medium-sized enterprises. Will the Prime Minister assess it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e494	It is important to remember that the government proposed a lower ceiling than that resulting from the budgetary procedure on the Storting – so the government had a lower ceiling than what exists today. It was part of the negotiations on Stortinget that increased that roof. The government has asked for an authority earlier to be able to assess these things. We still want to have a power to put it down. We agree that there may be a point in being able to define more, but we have had respect for a system that we actually negotiated at Stortinget, with the roof that is today. We're not strangers because there's a good discussion about the roof and the boundaries can be different in the system. We'd like to have discussions, I think, with the government parties on the Storting on these questions, also because the roof is really higher than the government suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e499	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e504	We're looking forward to that discussion. SV will propose a cap of 10 million. kr, so you get a clear, fairer order that is more focused on the many rather than the few on top. But another thing that would be very natural to do now, with the issues that have emerged in the media related to both dividends and redundancies in companies that have received significant crisis support, is to make a clear claim to the crisis beneficiaries about zero redundancies and zero dividends. It's like when ordinary people get the support of the state, they meet tough demands, but it seems that the government's attitude to state support for them at the top of the Norwegian community is that there should be great trust and not so much demands. Will the Prime Minister now change his mind in the light of the revelations that have taken place, in the case of zero dividends and zero redundancies?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e511	In many of these companies, there will be a situation in which more companies have less than one company, and to save jobs in other parts of the company, it would be natural to take dividends to reinvest elsewhere. This is the flexibility with the company structures that are. That's why we've been skeptical about saying that we're going to have a ban on dividends, based on the belief that it can help us lose more businesses and more jobs. So I believe that we should encourage the moderation of all of these groups in this regard, and that they realize that they also expose themselves to quite a lot of negative publicity if they can't explain why they're taking dividends, because they need other parts of the company. As far as redundancies are concerned, it is that even companies in this type of crisis must have the opportunity to make changes that make them sustainable in the future, and the assessment will be: can we have the high activity in the future that we had before the pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e519	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e524	You should never let a crisis go to play, said Churchill once. During the Corona epidemic, this government has spent 4 billion dollars. on measures to stimulate green migration. That's the same thing as 2 pst. of any emergency aid granted to undertakings to assist them during this period of crisis. A report from the UK Finance for Biodiversity draws exactly the same picture – Denmark and Sweden are among the countries that score the highest in using the crisis package for green conversion, while Norway is far below the list, in companies with Russia and Saudi Arabia. This is due in particular to the fact that large appropriations have been made for airlines and the fossil industry without attaching the money to green conversion requirements. The EU, for its part, has had a clear strategy to ensure that state incentive packages contribute to a move towards a sustainable economy and require that 30 pst. the aid shall contribute to climate change. But unlike the EU, the government chooses fossil energy as a solution to the coronary crisis. For example: the fourth quarter of 2020 was seven times higher in the oil and gas industry than in all land-based industries combined. Investment in the mainland industry fell 16 p.m. compared to 2019. The government could have chosen to pursue a policy that stimulates jobs in the energy and supply industries by providing new demand for carbon storage, coastal electrification, the construction of zero-emission hydrogen ships and, in particular, sea-window construction. My question to the Prime Minister will then be as follows: Why will the government not use the crisis packages for green conversion, at least equivalent to what Denmark, Sweden and the rest of Europe are doing now?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e533	It is important to distinguish between short-term measures in crisis packages to maintain important parts of Norwegian society through a crisis, where demand for those services disappears, and the long-term transition. In these operations, for example: are presented here, are not included in the large amount of carbon capture and storage money we have deposited, because it is ordinary budgetary money. There is, of course, a high level of carbon capture in the state budget for the current year, but it is not a short-term crisis response; it is a long-term industrial development measure. Then such comparisons also get a little weird. Some have chosen to put all the long-term developments for their business into the crisis package. We have chosen to define the crisis packages based on where we need to maintain activity in the short term, where we will continue to work. Then I have to say that it is not so strange when you take the air traffic, that Denmark is cutting better than Norway, if the starting point is that air traffic is negative for the environment. It's just looking at the geography. In Denmark, you can travel domestically — they have also blocked their borders gradually, so there are not so many other places to travel — without having to fly. In Norway, it is part of our collective offer. It's part of our society. We have therefore maintained it and contributed a lot of money so that Avinor works, contributed to the purchase of air services between cities and places in Norway. We'll make sure Nord-Norway's local services with air traffic work. Therefore, it is important to include geography in the discussion on such issues. I think the Green Party should not use such reports, without thinking that Norway is different. We do a lot for the green shift, but we do a lot in the ordinary state budget as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e540	Unlike the government, the Green Party is committed to a real shift towards rapid green growth in the sectors that are forward-looking. We now see the market moving money quickly from businesses with high climate risk to companies that have positioned themselves for the next big green innovation wave and the next big green jobs. Does the Prime Minister think that it is wise to wait and postpone these great early incentives to a green energy sector? Or the Prime Minister believes that the time for conversion is now, in the light of that, for example. WindEurope says we're going to have 450 GW of sea wind by 2050? What we're dealing with at Tampen is 0.1. So there's an opportunity here for 300 to 4,000 times higher than what we've now signaled that we want to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e547	First of all, since we entered the government, we have increased Enova's budgets so that they can contribute to great support for technology and development. In addition, we have the Green Platform. They have now distributed money in the first round, money going to innovative new projects that contribute to more support for the link between research and industry. We have also changed Enova's main focus from energy savings to a climate instrument in the future. So that's why we've realized a lot of big projects. In addition, we have carbon capture and storage, which is in the state budget. There's a lot of these things that are involved in this. As far as wind power is concerned, we are concerned with new liquid wind power. We are now working on the framework conditions related to the announcement of two areas, and we should be able to have new areas for liquid wind power. At the same time, it's important to say that there's going to be a technology development, so we don't play on just one horse in technology development, because then we're not sure that we'll necessarily get the wind industry we hope for in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e554	There will be follow-up questions – Per Espen Stoknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e559	We have just heard, at the hearing that was, how the government and the ministry filter important information on oil risk and climate risk. I wonder, since the Prime Minister is so close: does the Norwegian central government have some kind of oil virus on the brain, which, in the light of long-term oil fever, has now weakened our cognitive ability to convert, similar to the long-covid syndrome, so that we no longer take the exciting, creative, clean and profitable grips that are needed to be ready for the 2030s?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e564	Since the question of the information of the Stortinget concerned under the previous government, I do not have knowledge of that piece. This was responded by the Minister of Oil and Energy at the time on the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. I have no experience that we have some ‘oil virus’ in the office, but we have good discussions about Norwegian competitiveness in the future – links between what we do to further develop the supplier industry against new industry. We're working on the hydrogen road map, the big, new staging message that's going to be about Norwegian energy resources, the management of the sea areas and the entire part – which we're looking at. The only virus I've ever seen that central government has on our brains right now is what we all have on our brains, covid-19 and how we're going to get out of the corona situation. And the way out of it is we're going to be greener, smarter and more innovative in Norwegian society. We've also done that with the measures we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e573	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e578	The last Wednesday was the Minister for Transport in the Oral Question Time. Then there was a discussion about ferries and ferry prices. In the past week, there have been so many suggestions on ferries that now it is only suggestions on free coffee and onboard howling that are missing. But it is understandable that ferry guests – ferry offers and ferry prices. To the previous questioner, the Prime Minister said that it was just looking at the geography. I think we can say that when it comes to ferries too, because Norway's long coast and many fjords make very many totally dependent on a good ferry offer at acceptable prices. Yes, ferry is the very lifeblood. But the ferns have become very expensive. Holiday prices have increased dramatically in recent years. Let me give you an example for the Prime Minister: the ferry link over Tysfjorden, i.e. E6 over Tysfjorden. There's one ferry connection on E6, or there's one left, we might say, so it's a very important ferry connection, Bognes-Scarberg. There was the ferry price for the car and the driver in 2013 NOK 95, today it is NOK 190. So from 2013 to today, under this government, the ferry price of that connection has doubled. I expect the Prime Minister now to come up with speech points that she has with her, that she should be guilty of red-green state politicians. But the Prime Minister may not, because this is a national road ferry service. This is E6, and here the state and the government have all the responsibility – both for the route offer and for the price. The question is quite simply: why does this government increase ferry prices so much?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e589	Firstly, ferries are an incredibly important part of the transport routes in Norway, and there is an exciting discussion about the role of ferries – whether it should be like a road or whether we should still pay to take the ferry. There are many batches that have proposed free ferry in opposition and that have not been delivered when they have been in position over time. I'm from Hordaland, and we have a lot of ferry connections. I'm very much in favour of the ferry prices being low, but I also know that any priority we have to do will go beyond anything else. Therefore, I think that this discussion is primarily related to discussions we do in the State budget, and what we prioritise – whether we prioritise more departures, for example, or whether we prioritise other changes. One of the major changes made at higher costs is the AutoPASS introduction. It has made it easier and cheaper, yes, actually free of charge for passengers to take the ferry, while the car has become the tax item. So basically, there's a neutral system in which the car pays more, while all the passengers you're carrying don't pay. I met some pensioners on the ferry section Horten-Moss a few years ago who told me that they had now introduced that they had parked the car in Horten, so they took a free ferry and had a pensioner meeting in the canteen on the boat to Moss. It was a nice experience for them to be out. I understand that this is expensive for commuters, but I am concerned that these solutions should be found when we deal with the state budget. Also on national roads there will be some areas where there has been a higher frequency, for example: several night trips, and in some places where it has become more expensive because it has been chosen to give priority to better offers rather than to lower prices. In general, we have increased the support for state travel on the highways by 1.6 billion. kr in the 2021 budget, and we have increased support for county municipalities through allocations in the county economy, based on keys related to ferry services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e603	I don't think either the Minister of Transport last Wednesday or the Prime Minister now shows a very strong willingness to do anything about ferry prices. The Workers' Party's proposal is that we halve the ferry prices, that we start with it and do it now the next time – both a national ferry service and a county ferry service. It's completely possible to do it. The Prime Minister talks about an increase in route provision. On this link – E6 over Tysfjorden, Bognes–Skarberget – the route offer has not been increased, it is the same route offer. It's not new ferries, it's the same dieselfies that have always gone. But the price has doubled under this government for the car and the driver, and it is still the case that most people are driving the car alone, even though there has been a price change for passengers. That's good, but where there's a car and a driver, the prices are doubled. Is there no will of the government to do anything about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e612	Yes, and we have – we have done it in the state budget, on the state roads, where we have invested more money. We have done so in connection with previous changes, where we have invested more money to the county councils related to this. We have justified the increase in free income with just these challenges. We've spent a huge sum. We've spent over 1.5 billion. kr only to subsidise the replacement of low-emission ferries on the ferry connections that have now been allocated, so that the country has taken a large part of the bill associated with it. So it's a lot of good purpose, and ferries are one of them. The working party has a proposal for the next period. That's okay, but then they have to show it in budgets and alternative budgets the whole next period, how they put it in, because there was no money in the alternative state budget. The Workers' Party did not indicate whether this would take place instead of other roads, rather than hospital places or instead of money for the municipal economy. We all have to be in these priorities – all things are fine, the sum we know can be burdensome.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e619	There will be follow-up questions – first Sverre Myrli.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e624	Yes, of course, the money has to be put into the state budget – it should be lacking, there is no other way to solve it. National road ferries must be given priority over the State Road Administration budget, and county municipalities must be able to participate in halving the tariffs. But it is the state that has to contribute financially. The problem is that this government has changed the income system of our counties, which means that the ferries are losing a lot. Only the county councils of Northern Ireland have lost hundreds of millions of dollars in the conversion that the government has done. Then I have to say that I find it strange that the government argues that because we use new technology and new ferries – and it is very good that it does – prices should be increased. We're using new technology on the railway, but we're not increasing the train tickets for that reason. Here in the city and in many other places, buses with new technologies and new fuel worms are going, but we're not increasing the bus ticket for that reason. But the government thinks it's reasonable that those who depend on a ferry should get higher ferry prices when we use new technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e631	No, but we've redistributed, and that's what's important. When children and passengers in the car go free of charge, they have put it on the car as a whole. So you've done a conversion. That means someone pays more, others don't pay at all. That's where the Travel Pass bit comes in. Then we in the state have helped to keep ferry prices low by adding more money to the highways, and we have contributed more money to the county municipalities. I have to be allowed to say, even if you say that you should not point to the county municipalities, that when the county councils have a lot of money on book, when they have operating profit that has been good, as part of the county councils have had – not all of them have had it, but some of them have had quite good results – it is a bit strange that they then choose to increase prices and rather save money, instead of lowering prices. This has happened in Northern Ireland, and in Northern Ireland, the Workers' Party has voted against proposals from, among others. Right to lower the fare.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e636	Severe Myrli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e641	There was the Prime Minister at his speech points anyway. I think it's an unworthy game, which the government is now running, to blame on red-green state politicians. This is probably true of seminars in the Young Right, but it is not true in the main hall and in a serious political debate. The working party will halve the holiday prices. Obviously, the right does not want to do anything about it. Our county councils are striving to achieve the demands for results that the government and the local government are asking for, and this is what the prime minister, who has even been a municipal minister, knows. If I am not mistaken, the Ministry of State asks the municipalities to have 4 pst. results. Very well-known, all of our ferries are struggling to achieve the recommendations the government has made to the county councils. Everyone sees that it is impossible to halve the holiday prices even on the county road ferries if the county municipalities are to take this on their own. The state must contribute. Will the government extend a hand to the county councils and to those who depend on the ferry, to find a solution so that the ferry prices can go down?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e650	If we had agreed that the workers' party politicians took responsibility for their own actions and were not responsible for the state, it might be unnatural to have a debate, because we pointed out that they might have done something else, and that there have been other proposals in their own county municipality. I'm in many debates, and I experience that the Workers' Party's state politicians or local politicians like to correct the index finger elsewhere than on themselves when they have challenges that there have been alternative solutions to internal. So if Myrli can say that there is a worthy form of debate also for local politicians in his own party, I say thank you so much, I'd like to contribute to it, if I see the same attitude from the Workers' Party around. There will be an exciting debate until the elections in that case. We've increased the framework grant by 100 million. kr to low and zero emission ferries to the counties. This year we've increased by another 100 million. kr. These are permanent increases in income entered in the budgets of the counties, which means every year. We have given more money to highways. One of the main challenges for county councils is that with the transfer they inherited a violent aftermath on their county roads, and we have prioritised giving more money to the county councils to do something with the aftermath of county roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e657	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e662	We in the Central Party have, for several rounds, made proposals to bring down holiday prices, and have also put money into the alternative budget and voted against it. Some time ago, a new Norwegian public sample, led by Victor Norman, came with several suggestions in the ferry policy. One of the suggestions was that free ferries should be assessed on all connections with less than 100000 passengers. In other words, islands that have no roads, small communities that depend entirely on the local ferry, where transport costs are particularly high, and they depend on making it work. When you want to change things and do things better, you have to start at an end, and then my question to the Prime Minister is: does the Prime Minister think that Victor Norman's proposal to make ferries free when there are less than 100,000 passengers is a good proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e669	We haven't taken a stand on all the proposals, but we've reduced these samples, both what Brandtzæg has led, and what Norman has led, to see how we can get distortions in district policy that help us hit what's most important, what makes us get more employment, more activity and more people who want to live there in the future. That means we don't reject proposals of that kind either, but we have them for processing in the future to see if that's the right thing, whether setting the limit at 100,000 and giving more support to that type of transport is the right thing, and then it has to be weighed against all the other things. Then I want to say that the Senterpartiet has a story that they've been too low on ferries, but they also have a story that they didn't get that much when they were in government. I'll give them credit because they were about the only party that had the money for this in the alternative state budget. But it was 200 million. NOK – and then they spent 29 billion. kr more than the rest of us used for this. It was a relatively small priority for a very large budget for oversupply.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e677	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e682	One of the things we in the Center Party have been concerned about is that when we are going to implement a climate change, the state should take the bill. After all, we have spent money – year after year – on the fact that when you are going to have ferries that have almost zero emissions, you should not leave the costs to those who depend on taking a holiday in their everyday lives. We see what happens when you leave the cost to them: then there will be rebellion, unrest and a lot of trouble. Now the government has come up with a climate report that will follow the same recipe, by just increasing the CO 2 tax to NOK 2000 flat, and it will affect many of the same people who depend on the ferry and who have high transport costs. We have now seen the recipe, when the state is not willing to take the bill and just push it over to the individuals. Does the Prime Minister think that there has been a good recipe, when one sees all the unrest that has been surrounding the ferry policy, that only a flat increase in the CO 2 tax of NOK 2000 should be implemented, regardless of how local communities and individuals are affected?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e697	The advantage of having zero-emission ferries is that they do not have CO 2 emissions and therefore do not get an increase in the fee, which in practice means that the operation of these ferries is cheaper than the option would be if we had continued to have it. We've given a lot of support, as I said, I think the number is almost 1.7 billion. kr, for the transition to low-emission ferries in the counties. We have said that all new tenders should be at that level. This means in practice that they are not going to pay the CO 2 tax on the holiday ticket. Then it's important that we also work on charging infrastructure development in the future and make sure that we have enough people to buy electric cars, and that we work on the hydrogen strategy to make sure that heavy transport can get on other modes of transport. This means in practice that the CO 2 tax will not be noticed, because the CO 2 emissions are managed. Then I have registered that the Central Party also has an internal debate on whether to abandon the 'polluter pays' principle, which has been fundamental. I am pleased to see the outcome of the debate in the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e718	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e723	There is no concern in the Centre Party about a sensible charging policy, but there is great concern in the Centre Party about the charging policy put forward by the Right and Prime Minister Erna Solberg, where charges should be increased as much for the oil and gas industry, which is one of the world's most profitable industries, as for the coastal fisherman, who has a completely different profitability. It is completely wrong, and it undermines the entire climate policy. There is also great concern about the kind of policy that will prohibit people who have an older car from driving in certain parts of the country, because they may not have been able to afford to buy a new car. It also makes it more difficult for craftsmen. The Prime Minister is trying to get away from the main question here, because the point of my question is that the climate change we have had in terms of speedboats and ferries has caused the prices of ferry tickets to rise. There will be unrest and trouble when you leave the climate bill to individuals who initially don't have such good advice. If we're going to be able to convert Norway, it can't be that those who are the poorest, and those who live out of town, are the ones who get the biggest bill. Or does the Prime Minister think it's quite okay, as she adds in the climate communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e730	We have a good review of the costs of climate investment in the counties, given the costs of ferry and boat transport. The preliminary calculations we had showed that it was actually covered with the money that was given. It was much lower. It's actually the Travel Pass conversion that is the big conversion factor here, but of course you also want more departures in many places. Several departures with fewer passengers offer a better offer, but they also cost more money. It's been among the things that make you get higher prices. We are very aware of that, that we are going to contribute money to the county councils for the costs of climate change. We do that for almost all of the other sectors as well. We're compensating in other ways. But taking away the incentive, a higher CO 2 tax, will mean that you don't get to the technology shift. There is so much exciting happening in Norwegian business related to the technology change that I think we can achieve the goal, but then we don't have to back out in view of the future horizon of those who are going to make the investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e740	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e754	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e759	The changes were as follows: Question 5, from the representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen of the Minister for Health and Welfare, will be taken up by the representative Kari Kjønaas Kjos. Question 8, from the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete to the Minister for District and Digitalisation, has been withdrawn. Question 10, by Mr Olsen, representative of the Minister for Transport, has been withdrawn. Question 12, by Kari Henriksen, representative of the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality, has been withdrawn. Question 13, from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e775	‘Lensmann Egil Netland, at the Sirdal Lensmannskontoret, stated in the Dalane Official Journal on 26 January: ‘For Sirdal and the small offices we must realise that it has not improved. There has been a strong reduction and readiness for those living in the countryside has been significantly weakened [...] In recent years, I have been largely alone as a police officer. [...] People, and especially the elderly, are not safe when it gets like it is now.’ Is the Council satisfied with the readiness and presence of the police in Sirdal and other neighbourhoods outside the major cities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e782	All twelve police districts have different geographical and population density patterns. Police must constantly dispose of resources in the most appropriate way and according to local needs. It is the police officers who are to distribute resources internally. They have the best competence to do so, and I do not believe that politicians, departments or police Directorates should be given any advantage. What we're going to do is we're going to set goals and demand results. Since 2015, national demands have been made for police response time. Demanding has been important to ensure increased attention to police response times from both the national and police authorities. The police response time results in the second tertiary 2020 showed that the police meet national requirements for all three agglomeration categories for the first time over a period of four months. The police directorate sets response time requirements for the police districts. So I'm familiar with South West police districts meeting the requirement set to the smallest agglomeration category, but not for the other two categories. Police are systematically working to improve, for response time requirements are to be met in all three areas. The requirements and results of the South-West Police District are followed up in the governance dialogue between the Police Directorate and the District. The South-West police district has also achieved a real growth of 4.7 pst in the year's budget. I trust that the police district assesses and prioritises missions, so that events are resolved in the most appropriate and resource-efficient way possible. I am also pleased to note that the police survey shows that the public's sense of security and confidence in the police have increased in recent years. As a result of the police reform, all police districts have established more robust operational centres that can better control resources based on knowledge of where crime is taking place. This means that the police can do their work better. Then there are shared opinions about the police reform, as the representatives have explained. Another representative, Arne Johannessen, former director of the Joint Police Association, who is now working as head of the West Police District, says in a reading that 2020 was the best ever for local police. Among other things, he points. in new police posts, new cars, better preparedness and larger operational centres, which in total mean better services to the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e797	The winter holiday stands at the door, and Easter comes in about a month. This year, there are many Northmen who are likely to go to cabins all over the country. Sirdal is one of these cottage municipalities where the number of people who live in the municipality goes up by several thousand. It's like about all of Rogaland travels to Sirdal in the Feriane, with the exception of the Minister of Health, which we've been given through the media likes best on Stavtjørn, and that's quite fine. But we see that the man in Sirdal is reporting a record low crew at the local Länsmannskontoret. The same is true of many of the other cabin municipalities throughout the country. The question then is: is the Council of State certain that we have that readiness, that we have that crew during the winter holidays and the Easter holidays in these municipalities, which means that one is able to deal with an undesirable situation, if he should arise?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e802	Some of the questions I get in Stortinget's Question Time tell me that there can be a lot to learn by going out to the police and hearing how they work. It's e.g. Someone who thinks the office address tells me something about the preparedness, that it's the office that pulls out when something happens. It doesn't happen very often. It's the operating center that gets a message, you report to the nearest patrol, and then you pull out the nearest patrol. That was a general answer. The special answer is that I would recommend the representative to take a trip to Sirdal, at Easter, for example, because what I am absolutely sure of is that the police chief in the police district is manning up when there are extra people in that part of his district. That's what's the whole point, that you have robust, good units, operating centres, but you can move the crews, depending on where there are people, and when something special happens. That's why we have a different type of standby at night this weekend than we have, for example. a Tuesday morning. That's the whole point, and I have full confidence that the chief of police is making assessments based on the challenges in the district.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e815	I have to say, I think there's something unsympathetic and a sign that the government may have been sitting for a little while, when you find out that government councils are coming to the Storting and teaching that it's not the office, but cars and people moving out. Of course we know it at Stortinget. It is also a thinking individual who manns this house. But the police response time is important to people, and a little bit of the point is that when you call the police, when you need the police, they come. And that's how the response time has increased, especially in small and medium-sized cities, since 2016. In fact, response time has increased in nine out of twelve police districts. Is this a development that the Council of State is pleased with?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e822	First of all, I just have to apologize, it was not in any way meant to be a teacher, and I have not been in the Ministry of Justice long enough to be in any way either, but when I have received up to several questions today that are related to the office address as regards response time and preparedness, I have to ask myself if you think it is from the office address you move out. That was the basis for my reflection earlier. I have great respect for the knowledge and ability of big business representatives. What I am very satisfied with is that this government introduced demands for response time. You didn't know before. Knowledge is very important, it is important to set goals, and we expect the targets to be met by the police. Now, in the second tertiary, for the first time you reach the national requirement for the three agglomeration categories. That's very good. Then you're not done, we have to meet these requirements locally for all three categories. It is followed up by the police, and it is followed up in the governance dialogue with the police, by the police directorate, whom I understand the representative will otherwise drop.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e832	‘In the police survey, national figures show that confidence in small municipalities has declined from 78 to 76 per cent from 2015 to 2020, while confidence in large municipalities has increased from 80 to 83 per cent over the same period. Meanwhile, 120 loner offices and police stations have disappeared. What does the Council of State think that confidence is getting lower the longer people live in police stations and county offices?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e839	The 2020 survey by the police shows that people's confidence in the police is increasing throughout the country. 82 pst. responds that they have quite high or very high confidence in the police. It is the best measure of confidence since the start of the police reform, and progress is three percentage points from 2019. At the same time, 94 pst. that they feel quite safe or very safe. It's also a very happy feedback. The figures showing that the confidence of the population in the police is higher in 2020 than at the beginning of the police reform in 2015 may indicate that the public sees positive effects of the police reform. A new capacity survey on police operations from the Police Directorate shows that it is moving in the right direction. The investigation shows that the police have the capacity to give priority to minor incidents. It shows that even though there has been a reduction in the number of loner offices, the police are moving out on a mission even where there are few people living. It is not the case that the police give priority to cities over the towns. The capacity survey shows that the police spend the same amount of time on urban and urban missions. The survey also shows that police patrols spend a lot of time on prevention. That patrols work with prevention is important. The more time the police have for this, the more crime can be prevented. The development of the police is positive in view of the difficult situation we are facing, especially now under a pandemic. Although the experience may vary from district to district, the population survey and capacity survey show that the police are increasingly present for the public. I have registered that the inhabitants of a few smaller municipalities have slightly lower confidence in the police than the inhabitants of the largest municipalities. But I am pleased that the police in all categories of municipalities, both small, medium and large, are more confident in 2020 than in 2019. It is true that at the end of the police reform we have some improvement points. We are constantly working on further development of the police. But what's really worrying is that some people are working to reverse the work that's now done on the police reform, in the belief that more LEN's offices and office addresses are going to do the job. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e858	Yesterday, the position of the Judicial Committee on the police report was issued. The Central Party is behind a proposal calling on the government to stop all ongoing or proposed centralisation in the police districts, including the reduction of the number of geographical holdings, the merger of county and police offices, the centralisation of civil justice, civil servant and service offices, pending the evaluation of the police reform. But it does not seem that the government parties with the Prom Party will agree to this proposal, and it is not possible to interpret it in any other way than that the government is very close to completing its centralisation of the police. Why does the Council of State not want to give rest to the extensive and highly fragmented police reform that has already been introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e865	Well, there's just a little bit of peace in implementing what we've given, and we're going to evaluate it. The problem now is that if there is a red-green majority for the autumn, the police will use the next few years to reverse a process that has given better quality and that has provided better services. There are no processes of centralisation in the police force. But I think that the representative of the Central Party must also decide whether to be a police chief and a police director in the next few years, or whether to be a big-time politician. Because with the proposals of the Central Party, police issues are being politicized; there are budgets; there are arrangements of geographical units; there are office addresses; there are even arrangements on common units. I don't know if the representative thinks that analysis departments, investigation departments, technical laboratories and that kind of thing, police orders should be politicized. I totally disagree with that choice. I believe that police officers and police officers should make the police professional assessments, not we here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e872	But readiness is one of the most important political responsibility we politicians have, and it should only be right that we engage in that debate. I was standing here last week asking the Council of State many of the same questions. At all events, the Council of State does not respond to what I am asking for. So the government won't answer if it adds to new centralization processes in the Troms police. The police officer has already announced that he should centralise Tromsø's pedagogue, that he should also centralise the civil justice section to Tromsø, and that the service office function should be brought together in a single unit in Tromsø. This is not calm about the police reform, this is the beginning of a massive centralisation of the police. So my question is, will the Minister of Justice make sure that the chief of police in Troms is now stopping all the ongoing reorganisation processes?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e881	I replied, and I replied as I do now: I want police officers to be allowed to be leaders and do their job – as opposed to the representative. I also replied that the GDEs, the geographical holdings, are not moving a single person. It's not centralization, even though the Center Party says it's in and out. It doesn't move a person, it doesn't change an office address. But I realize that the police officers, whom I will meet tomorrow, now have to prepare for the Central Party in this room to decide the arrangements in each district. The GDE facilities are different in each and every district, regardless of population. It's about getting involved and having knowledge of what you're actually asking about. It is not centralisation to change the GDEs, but it is a leadership task to do so if you think that it provides better police services to the citizens – also in Troms. So I answer, but you also have to be willing to listen. Then we'll see what's going to be the end of the police master's tasks ahead. I'm very worried. An area review shows that we have too little trust and too much detail control.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e891	‘In newspaper Fjell-Ljom we could read about a boy of 11 years who has a great commitment to the police. He says, "In my opinion, we should have a County Lender's Office in Holtålen, because I fear the time of the raid will be far too long if the police are to move out to the Holtålen from Oppdal or Trondheim, for example." Do the Council of State agree with the 11-year-old's description that police officers serving locally in the municipality in which they serve have a better overview and contribute to better on-site preparedness than the visiting police?'
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e898	The security of the population is the overall goal of everything the police do. We're going to have a local police force all over the country, and we do. But security isn't just about a building with a loner's sign on it and policemen added to a loner's office. It's about the police actually coming when the citizens need it. The pithole was open 10 hours a week. Crime occurs 168 hours a week. And so it's not like the police are moving out of an office first; it's a patrol that's called when something happens. The recent capacity survey shows that, although there has been a decrease in the number of loner offices, the police are moving out on missions where people live. The study points out that the police spend as much time on urban and urban missions and that the police have the capacity to give priority to minor incidents. Since 2015, we have made demands for police response time based on three agglomeration categories. The results for the second tertiary 2020 show police compliance. By making demands on response time, we also ensure increased attention in police management nationally and in police districts on police response times. It's given results. Then there will also be tasks and services that require presence in ways other than physical presence. Police contacts in each municipality are such an important measure. Another measure is the use of online patrols. Children and young people are active users of digital platforms and communication channels. Crime against children and young people online is a serious crime to be prevented, detected and prosecuted. Police must therefore be present and communicate with children and young people where they are, online and in social media. I don't think everything's perfect. We are constantly going to assess whether the resources are allocated correctly, but I want to stress that there is a police officer who knows the needs of his district best and who has to make that assessment. The Ministry has asked the Police Directorate to ensure that the geographical holdings in the police districts are now strengthened in 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e913	Jens Olav Magnussen, named 11-year-old, said in the interview: «Although I am only 11 years old, I hope to be taken seriously». I don't feel like the Council of State is now taking this 11-year-old seriously. He's a socially engaged boy who's been interested in the police for a long time, who goes into the media and says he's considering taking police training when he grows up. He points out that the time of evacuation has now been up to two hours for people in the Holtålen. He says it's embarrassing that the fire department has to take the task while they're waiting for the police. In addition, he points out that people living in the countryside should receive as good services as the city people. And now people in this area have lost a pass, lost it by getting a weapon permit – no matter what you're going to get done, it's then two hours to drive one way to Trondheim. It's gonna be a whole day. People in the countryside should be given the same good services as the city people. Do the councils agree with Jens Olav on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e925	Yes, it's completely unproblematic, and I think I'm taking it seriously. I'm giving the 11-year-old an answer. It's an answer that the representative doesn't like, but it's an answer. I don't know if the 11-year-old knows that the loner's office he's referring to was open 10 hours a week, and I don't know if he knows that crime happens 168 hours a week. I know that, and that's why I'm answering as true. The police should be in the city and the city, should be for everyone, and the fact that we have implemented response time, is very important. Now, of course, is the time for the police to respond, but it is the chief of police who is responsible for allocating resources as is best done, both in order to prevent, detect and prosecute crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e932	Yes, I think Jens Olav knows that he's genuinely interested in the police. But what the council may not know, is that even if the intention was to strengthen the rest of the Länsmannskontor – we don’t have a Länsmannskontoret that was up 10 hours a week, and we had a Länsmannskontoret at Røros with full opening time. What we've experienced is that we now have a loner's office that's closed, and we have a loner's office that's open every other day, with a markedly reduced opening time. And that county office now doesn't provide the services that people in the area need, because it's centralized to Trondheim. That is the reality of this. Overall, several positions have been reduced in the Holtålen and Røros Länsmannskontoret. I'm not going to say that restoring the Holtål is the only answer, but the answer is at least that the preparedness and positions in that area need to be strengthened. We know that there have been no more posts in Tøndelag. Does the Council agree that the intention is not fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e939	I think it must be a misunderstanding. There have also been several posts in Tøndelag. From 2013, the police have been strengthened with over 3,000 posts throughout the country, so it must be a misunderstanding at best. Then I will not comment on the opening hours of the individual office in Trøndelag, but I was asked for a specific office, which an 11-year-old misses, and then I replied to it. But it's good, then, given the miserable situation described here, that trust in the police is increasing, that people's security is increasing. That's very good. This means that people have security that the police will come when there is a need, when events occur, that the police will prevent, detect and prosecute. It's very important. And that's why these studies are very important -- they show a solid feedback, in the city and the city -- and especially in a situation where we've been in a pandemic. There is a brilliant effort by the police throughout the country. People see it, people respond to it, and it's very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e951	‘In connection with the Coronapandemy, Stortinget granted 13 million. the costs of the police prosecutors in order to reduce the costs. This would result in 30 additional posts, which we could read at the Court 24 on 28 August. The police lawyers have reported on several occasions that these posts have not been created. In the Inland police district, for example, there would be two additional prosecutors, but the police lawyers in the Inland have not seen anything about these positions. What happened to these millions?"
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e958	It is right that the government of the revised national budget for 2020 proposed to increase the appropriations allocated to the courts, the higher prosecution authority and the police prosecution by a total of 62 million. kr. We did that to build down the remains that would occur when the shut-downs occurred in March, and that actually stopped the regular plain. The $13 million. kr to lawyers in the police to which the representative refers should contribute to the prosecution lawyers being able to bring cases before the court in the autumn of 2020 while avoiding the build-up of a new stockpiling with the remainder of the prosecution authority in the police. These funds were temporary and were not earmarked for new posts. This means that the police could also use them for e.g. overtime, in cooperation with the trustees. The appropriations continued in 2021 by 39 million. kr to increase the capacity of the police prosecution authority. That's approximately equal to that. 30 posts. Following dialogue with the Police Directorate, few new posts were created in 2020. I'm not happy with that. That's why the Department has commissioned the Police Directorate to follow up closely now in 2021, so that new posts are created as expected. The Police Directorate has asked the police districts to deliver a concrete and cost-effective plan by 1 March to strengthen the capacity of the police prosecution, and we have asked the Department to see this plan. With regard to the specific case in the Inland Police District to which the representative has referred, the Police Directorate has informed that the funds have been used as foreseen. Two temporary positions of law-prosecution were created, which were staffed from October 2020. The Directorate of Police has stated that the other three law enforcement posts have not been published because of a dispute related to the main agreement. This has resulted in a total lack of increase in the number of prosecutors in the Inland police districts by 2020. Let me add that I am pleased that over the years, we have done a significant strengthening of the police and officers' seat. That was about. 30 pst. more prosecutors recruited on 31 October 2020 than in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e969	There is no doubt that there is a huge need in the prosecution authority, not only in the Inland they have a strenuous everyday life. Last year, police officers in East police district sent a warning about their employment, which was in November. The State Attorney had an inspection in the East Police District at the end of November, and a report dated 15 December 2020 states, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘In the meeting with the prosecution lawyers, it was informed that they experienced the existence of such a large portfolio that they do not have an overview of the cases and that there is only an exceptional possibility to conduct active prosecution of the investigation. Furthermore, it was informed that most lawyers have about 500 cases in the portfolio. However, we notice in particular that the lawyers point out that the portfolio is so large that they do not have an overview of the issues. [[...]] In other words, they describe a situation in which they experience lack of control.’ So this inspection was several months after the government recently strengthened the prosecution lawyers, so what does the Council of State think about what is described in the report? How is legal certainty ensured when a lawyer may have 500 cases in the portfolio, and they themselves say that they do not have control?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e979	It is not right for me to comment on the alert in the East, because it is still being treated, and it is treated according to the procedures for alerts. In general, there are record numbers of prosecutors employed. It's also the case that the remainders have fallen, and that the measure is reached. It's generally very good, but that doesn't mean it's not a demanding situation, because we know it is. Therefore, it was important to strengthen the prosecution unit, but that money was one-off money, they were temporary, and then it is difficult to go to regular employment. Then temporary employment or overtime has been made available, and I know that several districts have done so. It has been done in cooperation with the elected representatives, who have wanted such a solution. Now the money is permanent, it's very good, and we're going to follow up from the department that it actually leads to more jobs, because that's what the whole purpose is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e986	It's a shame we're still in such a difficult situation after six years with the so-called near-police reform. The percentage of crime reported fell under the previous government, and it continued until 2015 when the reform was introduced. After that, the percentage of clearance has gone evenly and steadily downwards. By 2020 it was at 49.6 p.m., which is the lowest of over ten years. It is despite fewer cases, despite the fact that the Council of State and the government boast of recruitment, and despite a close police reform that had the following content: ‘The quality of criminal proceedings conducted by the police should be improved. The proportion of criminal cases resolved shall be increased and the time taken to deal with them shall be reduced. The number of non-prosecuted criminal cases shall be significantly reduced and the period of time between notification and judicial decision shall be reduced.» Why has the length of the procedure increased and the percentage of clarification decreased, despite the fact that the objective of the so-called near-police reform was the opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e996	I am very aware that the Central Party is opposed to police reform, against reorganizing, against making changes, against strengthening police districts, against joint units, against increasing quality. I have met the prosecution units in all the police districts, and I have not met any representatives who want to reverse the clock. That's what the Central Party recipe is now – to roll back the clock until 2010. I want a police officer to move forward. We've strengthened the prosecution page, we've strengthened the state attorney's office, and we've strengthened the courts. We're going to see the results of this, but it's going to take some time. We are now in a situation where the queues, because we have a pandemic, have actually increased, and therefore we have contributed through both the revised national budget and the state budget to a historic commitment to the police, a historic commitment to the courts. And I'm not the one saying, it's the courts and the police themselves saying. The results are going to come, unless someone is going to decide to turn the clock back and apply all their forces to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1006	This question, from the representative of Mr Åshild Bruun-Gundersen to the Minister for Health and Welfare, will be raised by the representative of Mr Kari Kjønaas Kjos.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1011	‘Many pregnant women express frustration and anxiety that their partners are not allowed to share the valuable experiences of pregnancy and childbirth. Fathers also have a strong need to bond with their children. What will the Council of State do to ensure that partners are allowed to participate in the pregnancy studies, throughout birth and in childbirth?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1018	The birth of a new child is one of life's greatest experiences. At the same time, it is born in a vulnerable situation. Having support during the birth of partners or other close relatives is of great importance to the sense of security. For father or co-mother, it means much too close to the new child to be present during pregnancy control, during childbirth and the first days afterwards. Infection at maternity wards can have major consequences when employees become ill or have to be quarantined. In some situations, outbursts in maternity wards could lead to the closure of the ward, so that women have to be born elsewhere. This can also be a great burden for the natives. Although the woman and her partner are in the same family, everyone entering a maternity ward represents an additional risk of infection. The number that comes in, and how many are there at the same time and present at any time, is unfortunately also a factor. The guidelines of the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute are clear that, as far as possible, a provision shall facilitate the presence of a partner or other close relatives at birth and at the maternity ward. However, it is the individual hospital that has to decide how much restrictions there should be for visits. This applies to the presence in maternity wards, but also to whether or not partners can participate in maternity checks. Local guidelines will differ between food departments depending on the local situation of infection. The guidelines will also vary according to the facilities of the maternity services, for example. whether there are possibilities for exclusive or other protection. It is important that the measures for the protection of food and babysitting services are not too rigorously practised. The intention of a partner to be present must weigh very heavily. Access testing with antigen rapid testing may reduce the risk of infection and should therefore be considered instead of a visit ban or to facilitate the visitation rules. The Health Directorate has now been commissioned to examine whether systematic rapid testing can facilitate the participation of partners during childbirth and to advise on the measures to be taken to prevent the presence of partners throughout the course of their life. This will also strengthen the local assessments that need to be made in these situations. Fortunately, we are moving towards a time when a greater proportion of health professionals have been vaccinated, and the risk of reduced operation and shutdown is reduced. This will also make it possible to be open to the more normal presence of partners and other relatives in the maternity wards. This is also part of the mission of the Health Directorate to assess the consequences of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1037	A survey has been carried out among health care professionals, midwives and doctors, with 80 pst. indicates that they have the impression that the maternity period of new families has deteriorated after the woman did not have the partner with her during birth or maternity. Because of the corona you are more isolated both in front and after birth, so having with the partner is extra important. If a partner is infected by covid-19, it is also most likely the pregnant infected, or vice versa, because it is the two who live together closely all the time. Then it's hard for me to understand what the risk is of having two infected inside the same room, rather than that there's only one infected during the very birth.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1044	That risk increases quite significantly. When many are present at the same time, the risk is also increased. That's one of the challenges. Therefore, the physical design of the premises also has a bearing on the local rules. That's how we also think about all of the other areas of society, with the rules that have number constraints. Its more people present over a longer period of time indoors, its higher risk of spread of infection. This is also about the risk of spreading infection to others. If there are two persons who are infected moving in an area, the risk of spreading infection increases more than if there is only one person present.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1049	I understand that this is demanding. Some people think because the restrictions are too tight, others in the community are falling because it should have been more stringent. I am also fully aware that it is the sum of reliefs or the sum of measures that matter. But there are two things that happen through a life that I think stand in a special position, and that is at the final stage of life and at the beginning of life. In these two areas, I believe that we, as politicians, must not only listen to the professional environment, but also have a great responsibility to facilitate in a very, very strong way. What's going on out there now is that there's a lot of concern because you don't know exactly what's going on with their hospitals, that there's ambiguities, so I'm very happy that you're now focusing more on rapid tests and on making a little more like rules and driving rules for hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1054	Yes, we mean – and this is also in line with FHI’s recommendation – that the antigen rapid test can be used as access control. Antigen rapid tests are something we have good access to in Norway. If some hospitals think they lack this, they have to ask their health region for more. This can be included as a total package of measures that can provide better opportunities for the presence of partners both during and after birth. I also hope that it will give that result. I fully agree with the representative that the two life events she brings forward are extremely important. That's why we've given so very clear leadership to healthcare in just the two areas, that there needs to be a long way to facilitate the presence. Using the antigenic rapid test could be one instrument for achieving what is the national leadership, facilitating the best possible presence.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1064	‘In the past, the questioner has asked whether the Council of State agrees that the prohibition of rebates on infant formulae is discriminatory for women who cannot breast-feed. The Council’s response is an example of discharge and has led to strong reactions from women affected by this discriminatory ban. The breast-fed in Norway is unhealthy. When shall the Council of State clarify how to ensure that a discount can be granted on infant formulae, which will benefit families dependent on this?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1071	I want to start by stressing that both those who are breast-feeding, and those who are not, should be respected for that. It has not been intended to build up under what many people experience as a breast-feeding press, or to hurt those who use infant formula. I don't think anyone chooses infant formula as a simple solution. Many people would have liked to breastfeed, but for various reasons they don't make it work. It is not that those who choose infant formulae are inadequate or careless to do the best for their child. For some, infant formula will be the best option for both mother and child, and the Health Directorate advises on how best to do so. At the same time, it is important to promote, support and protect breast-feeding. It is therefore also important to strike a fair balance between the measures promoting breast-feeding and those using infant formulae. Current legislation limits the placing on the market of infant formulae. Preventing the placing on the market of infant formulae is a measure recommended by the World Health Organisation and is part of the International Code for the Marketing of Infant formulae and follow-on formulae, the so-called WHO Code. In Norway, the proportion is breast-feeding high, and we probably have clean water. It may therefore seem strange that we should support the recommendations of the World Health Organisation, but it is important to also see this in an international context. There are also several of the measures in the code that are relevant to us, especially in maintaining the high breast-feeding rate we have in Norway. The fact that the EU has incorporated these provisions into its legislation shows that the measures contained in the WHO Code are also considered relevant for Europe. The regulation is not intended to be a burden, neither for those who are breast-feeding, nor for those who are not breast-feeding, on the contrary. The purpose of this legislation is to ensure that all mothers receive correct, complete and independent information, both on breast-feeding and on the use of infant formulae. It is a wish that guidance and information on the use of infant formulae should come from independent health professionals and not from those who have an economic interest in selling as much of their products as possible. However, as I have said before, I would like to make a further assessment of the scope of action we have to ensure that the legislation and our policies do not get an unfair outcome for those who rely on infant formula. The Food Authority and the Health Directorate will take a closer look at this and have been given a deadline of 1 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1084	Thanks for the answer. There are many different ways to move forward after having a child, and what I think is unhealthy in Norway is breast-feeding. Whatever the Minister of Health may say, it is quite clear that very many mothers who are unable to do so feel inadequate because they are told that this is the most rewarding thing. I think most people want it, and if there had been anyone in Norway who didn't want it, I don't think they would have dared to say it. So strong is the breast-fed. When you go to the store and buy food for the children, when you start with it – someone starts at the age of four months, someone at the age of six months, and someone may even start before that – it is quite possible to get three for two on baby food on ice cream and on porridge, and a lot of the other equipment is also on offer. Indeed, the Council of State believes that Norwegian women will choose a bottle in front of breast-feeding if the infant formula is 20 pst. cheaper?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1093	No, I don't think this is a very big problem in Norway. What is at the heart of my answer is that Norway, both through its association with the World Health Organisation and through the rules we have in the EU, is obliged to have some international rules related to this. It has made it clear that one has interpreted the legislation to the effect that such discounts are not possible and contrary to the legislation. So I have just said in this case that I think there is a reason to look at what kind of room of action we have within that legislation, so that we do not get this kind of response in Norway. Some of these are less relevant in Norway than in other countries, where this could have quite a negative impact on women’s ability to breast-feed, when they have the ability to breast-feed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1098	I think it's long before May 1st, and I think it should have been possible to clean this up a long time ago. I see absolutely the international context, but when this is not a problem in Norway, I think it has to be cleaned up, you have to actually use common sense, and that it should be done the better. Then I have to add that I think the Food Safety Authority should spend its time on much more important matters than going looking for exactly these matters, at least what concerns infant formula. Finally, I would like to say to the Minister of Health that I think there is reason to take a discussion in Norway about the massive breast-feeding that is. The very most people who can breast-feed, do it. Those who don't, feel simply failed in many cases, because it is so strongly marketed how important it is with breast-feeding. So I think it's a balance there that might be a little bit crooked in Norway, and that puts women on an unnecessary sense of defeat.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1105	I believe that the deadline of 1 May is a rather strict deadline. There are two departments that now, in this situation, have an extremely large number of tasks, but I think it is important to clarify this, and that is why I have set that deadline. With regard to the debate on breast-feeding, I fully agree that this is an important debate. I think that the representative has better conditions to raise that debate than I do, and I also think that the representative has much more credibility in the kind of questions I would have. It is a debate I would like to welcome, but in which I do not think I should be the most central participant.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1115	This question, from the representative Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, will be raised by the representative Arild Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1120	‘I refer to the Health Directorate’s document to the Ministry of Health and Welfare, ‘Newly corrected revised response to the covid-19 mission from HOD 264’. FHI writes: ‘The National Health Institute wishes to point out the need for a review of the legislation relating to the financial compensation of diseases and quarantine’. Persons who lose all or a large part of their income are brought forward if they have to stay at home due to disease or quarantine/insulation. Has the government carried out a review of the legislation relating to financial compensation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1127	First of all, let me say that in the fight to reduce infection and reduce the pandemic, we have to constantly assess both in the departments and in other central government departments ongoing measures that can help to reduce the infection and keep the infection down. So I'm going to say a little bit about the legislation today and also what the issues I think the FHI points to are. Today, sickness benefits are granted in the case of sickness and quarantine and isolation for those who have earned entitlement to sickness benefits in accordance with the usual rules. It's simply because we've said that even if you're not sick, the quarantine, for example, should be treated as if you were ill, and thus triggers sickness pay. The loss of all or a large part of the income from illness or quarantine must therefore mean that you have not earned entitlement to sickness benefits. The vast majority of those legally employed in Norway have earned such a right. The main requirement for entitlement to sickness benefits is that you have been working for at least four weeks. It is a relatively low requirement compared to a number of other schemes. Working time in other EEA countries is also included. Self-employed persons are entitled to sickness benefits for corona-related sick leave from day 4, against usually day 16. Persons without a regular employer are also included, whether they are callers, persons on hourly contracts or freelancers. Sickness benefits are provided on the basis of previous income, so it is not decisive here how many hours you have agreed in advance. Sick pay rights apply regardless of whether the employee and the employer are organised or not, only in order to determine them. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare therefore estimates that the group that loses pensionable income to stay at home in these situations is very small. That doesn't mean that it can't be a problem that's worth looking at in any limited areas, but in sum, the changes we've made have covered up all, most of them. Then I just want to state – just so I'm told – that I think it's completely wrong to consider giving entitlement to sickness benefits or income insurance to people who work in black. I am absolutely sure that the representative of the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will also agree. We cannot have a situation where we provide social security benefits based on illegal activities, including: because it will be impossible to control. Finally, I would like to mention that we are also following up on the follow-up of occupational infectious diseases advice, for example. through the Labour Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1144	I thank you for your answer. One of the groups, although hardly as many, as the state council correctly points to, but as FHI emerges may pose a risk of infection, are call providers in the care and care services that – as FHI writes – continue to take guards while they have symptoms and that it has led to the spread of infection. There could be groups who have not earned the necessary rights to sickness benefits but who also sorely need income, and who therefore say yes to work and do not tell about their symptoms, and who may thus pose a significant risk of infection. Although there are not many in the number of workers, it can represent a major challenge and risk of infection for very many users of services, for example: care. Does the Council realize that this can be a challenge, and what has the government done about this group?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1153	First of all, we have used and extended the legislation we have. The most important thing here is that the quarantine, regardless of whether you're sick or not, gives you a right to sick pay. And then I said a little bit in my answer also about who is covered by the medical right: You must have been working for at least four weeks, that is the entry requirement, but also people without a fixed employer are included, whether they are conscripts or people on hourly contracts or freelancers. It's past income that's the starting point for sick pay; it's not how many hours you've agreed to. If you're a caller, and then you've agreed to 30 hours of work, it's not the 30 hours, if you're in quarantine, that lays the basis for your sick pay. It is past receipts that are the basis of sickness benefits, quite simply. I believe that the health money as such and the system that we have now should cover all of them, most of them. But it's... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1162	I'm recording that the Council of State believes that the system should address these challenges, but I'm probably not as sure about it. We have to assume that callers are neither particularly strong nor safe in the workplace nor have had particularly high incomes the year before, which means that they come within safe limits in the case of sickness benefits. That's what FHI points out, it could be that there's economic disincentives for saying no to guards if you're sick. However, as the report points out, unconnected employment as such, poor protection in the work environment law, and poor rights in the event of a disease, is a risk in a pandemic situation. Does the Council of State see that a safer working life, with full, permanent jobs, can also be good in a preparedness perspective for Norway in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1167	The answer to the main question is yes, quite clearly. After all, we see from the spread of infection in Norwegian workplaces to the debate on import infection that poor quarantine facilities often also follow employers who are unprofessional and have poor conditions in other areas. But it is important to say that there is no guarantee here that, although you are a bottom-up employer, everything is in place in terms of infectious diseases. That's why we also have to check it. So to the problem and what I was going to say before my minute went out: I'm not going to reject – also because we're constantly having dialogue with FHI about this – that there are some issues that can be challenging, and then we have dialogue and talk to FHI about it. But my point is that even callers are covered in sick pay, and you're not then covered based on what you've agreed, but on what you've earned in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1183	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1192	«Although the plans are clear and the need has been evident over a long period of time, there was no provision for dredging in the fairway to Borg Hafen in Fredrikstad on this year's budget. This now poses major challenges for ports and industry. Does the Council recognise the challenges of the lack of budgetary appropriations created for Borg port and industry using it, and how will the Council of State ensure the responsibility of the State under the Port and Water Law § 6?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1199	I would like to thank the representative of Myhrvold for his question, which points to the importance of this port for industry in the region. The transport needs of the economy are important to the government, and I can also say that when we come up with a new transport plan, the business needs for transport will be important. The Farleis project for the entrance to the port of Borg is an important project, with great significance for parts of the port-traffic. The depths of the fairway have been reduced over time, as a result of sediment being brought down with the Glomma, lying in the seal. I am aware that this poses challenges for the largest vessels entering the port. While this is an important fairway project, we must also take into account the fact that the fairway into Borg port is linked to important maritime protection areas. We have Øra nature reserve, located just east of Glomma's estuary, and we have the Outer Whaler National Park, which is located just south of the entrance to the port of Borg. The combination of protection areas and large amounts of contaminating masses makes this project challenging and costly. The state is responsible for port and maritime law § 6, which the representative also points to in his question. This applies to the improvement of the appearance and safety of the general movement. I would like to stress that this does not imply an obligation to implement measures, but naturally there are indications that we have to follow up here. Concrete projects must be prioritised within the framework of the national transport plan and the annual commitments. Within the framework of a tight budget, unfortunately, there has been no room to initiate the project of sealing port to Borg in 2021. The government will shortly submit its national transport plan for 2022–2033. The Farleis project for the seal of the port of Borg will be assessed in conjunction with the overall priorities of this plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1212	I thank the Council of State for the answer and, of course, fully understand that such a large project as the fairway project at Borg Hafen is must be anchored in the national transport plan. Nevertheless, the challenge today is an immediate need for dredging at the end of Glomma, to ensure that the ports of Fredrikstad and Sarpsborg can be optimally used. It could have been separated as a separate smaller project, and should really have had an annual maintenance budget. Every year, about 15 ships arrive at Denofa in Fredrikstad. When the authorities tightened the rules for the sailing manager earlier this year, the maximum depth was changed from 9.9 m to 9.2 m. It'll be very expensive for business, and in this case for Denofa in particular. Last week there was a call when a ship first had to be unloaded south in the port, and then moved on, and the cost was NOK 600,000. How will the Council of State contribute to resolving this acute situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1219	As the representative Myhrvold points out here, there's kind of a slightly more acute situation, and what I can say is that I've asked for a slightly different alternative here. We know that when we talk about – call it – the whole project Borg harbour, then we can talk about 1.3 billion. kr. However, there are also some options that are a little more maintenance options, which ensure that we get a better situation, and that could be short-term measures. Then I would like to say that when we went in, we were told that the fairway project for sealing up at Borg Harbour would not be ready for full start-up in 2021. That was the information I received, and it was also a basis for not being included in the budget for 2021. But we're also familiar with the more short-term, demanding parts, and it's demanding not least for business, and there's an important need for us to stay.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1226	I thank you once again for your answer and for a constructive dialogue. According to Borg Hafen, it is ready to launch the fairway project, and the Environment Directorate has also authorised the major project. It will contribute to the entrance to the Borg port in total, all the way from the Whaler Islands, and is a comprehensive project. However, Glomma carries sediments 365 days – all year round – and in the road sector there is a need for continuous maintenance. Will the Council of State contribute to keeping Glomma and the fairway in the inner harbour open with the Coast Guard from the next budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1233	I want to say that I am aware that the project is now ready, as the representative also says here. It's also so that when we did the work on the budget for 2021, one wasn't quite in that situation, but now it's up to date, as the representative Myhrvold here points out. Actually, I think it's a constructive thought, to think that the Coast must also have a continuous maintenance, and then Borg Harbour is a good example of that. Some of the other fairground projects we have are in a different situation; there can be more than one investment. But here, even after the big project is done, it will be a maintenance requirement. I see that, for example, the State Road Service is very good at it. They have this as part of their work, the same way that Bane NOR does it. But we don't have the same part in the Coastal Works, and that's something we should definitely look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1243	From Mr Ingarill Olsen to the Minister for Transport: ‘The coast is now engaged in sailing from Bergen to Kirkenes with five ships, which means that all 34 points of call are visited every other day. This has been well received along the coast, as it means predictability for both passengers and freight. Havila Kystruten AS, who was to start with four ships from 1 January 2021, has been exposed to their start-up due to the pandemic. Can the council inform when the government is planning for the Kystruten to return to normal operation, and when Havila Kystruten AS will be part of our route offer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1250	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1258	‘In Soknedal a toll station was located at Fossum Bru. The residents of the forest branch were supposed to drive local traffic on the old road. The old road has now been seized by Nye Weier for three years. During this period, residents have to pass the boom to get to kindergarten, shop or leisure activities. The municipality has been informed that the exemption based on the address is not possible. The fair thing for this branch is whether a received exemption or discount scheme during the period of local road closure. What does the Council of State think the municipality can do to correct the injustice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1265	The project E6 Vindåsliene – Korporalsbrua has been completed and, therefore, the toll company Vegamot has started a legitimate toll collection to cover the loans they have raised in order to provide funds for the expansion. The bombing of this project at Fossum Bru is in line with local decisions and the major handling of the case, which was carried out in 2016-2017. A fundamental principle for the use of tolls as a source of funding is that all those who benefit from a toll project will pay tolls and all those who pay tolls will benefit from the toll project. The state road service initially proposed to the municipalities a bombing site at Corporalsbrua. Such a placement would have been more in line with the principle of utility. This could not be accepted by local political authorities and a decision on the bombing position on the Fossum bridge. I Prop. 1 S Appendix 2 for 2016-2017, on a new tariff and discount system within the toll sector, is the framework for exemption and discount schemes intensified in view of local specific arrangements. There are no rules in these guidelines that require individuals to have toll-free movement within the municipality. However, this does not prevent local authorities from initiating their own measures to ensure such a principle. There are examples of municipalities that have started their own subsidy schemes in order to cope with this. When it comes to the issue of bomb-free local traffic for local residents in the forest on the local road, I have been informed by New Vegar AS that there is a re-regulation on the route past Soknedal. It is therefore premature to say something about the possible consequences and measures for toll collection in connection with the project E6 Vindåsliene-Korporalsbrua.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1276	I thank the Council of State for the answer, although I find it difficult to see what the municipality can actually do to correct this injustice. There's also a fundamental question about what's going on to get it fixed, and what's now damaging the community in Soknedal. When the municipality made the decision they made about the installation of a bomb, the condition was that the forest branch would have remedial measures. If the old road had passed, as it was really supposed, this problem would not have arisen. This will last for three years, before Nye Veier is done with his project, so then one comes to another problem issue. But it could be good to know how to get the municipality to a fairer order.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1283	I understand that the representative Kirsti Leirtrø raises this matter, because we who have been there know that this is a problematic matter. And then there's more conditions. First, the State Road Administration thought that the bombing position would be different than what it actually was. So we chose, as we do in those kinds of things, to listen to the local authorities, and then we've also changed the roads after that. What I would like to point out is that the municipality has the possibility to take action here. They also have the opportunity to take remedial action. In view of the reasons we have for doing so, it seems difficult to get involved in this matter and to do so. But the municipality has actually also seen the possibility to set up, if they think it's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1290	When we're done with the three years before New Roads are done with their projects, we've dealt with a toll proposition on the Stortinget, where we say that there should not be a side-by-side bomb on the route to be arranged, where they can run outside of this bomb that is still going to pass. That is, they actually get this extra cost for three years. The question to the Council of State is, can the Council of State reassure the residents that old E6 will be sorted out when New Roads start up, and that there will be no bomb on that side road?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1295	Yes, there's something we're going to see, because we see that the side-way bombs, and the thinking behind it, are something we're going to avoid. The only reason for having side-path bombs is if the option is that the road is not actually being built, but we want to limit it. Now we are in Trøndelag, but we see that this is a problem that is really in the whole country. We have received some measures, and it reduces, I would say, the level of conflict associated with bombing. I think that's what I'm looking for. I'm not an opponent of tolls, but naturally we want to have that legitimacy to secure the funding of roads, and what we see is that side-by-side bombs are involved in bringing down that legitimacy. There's something we're going to see, it's a problem we're aware of. In this case, we have unfortunately not seen the possibility of an exemption, but the municipality has the possibility to see what solutions they can find.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1309	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1317	This question, from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1322	‘According to the UN on 9 February 2021, a proposal from the European Commission shows that they will not consider investments in the forestry industry sustainable. Do the Council of State share the assessment of the European Commission, and what do the Norwegian authorities do to ensure that Norway can have full national freedom of action in future to invest in forestry and woodworking?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1329	Norwegian forestry shall be sustainable. It is defined both in legislation and in industry’s own sustainable forestry standards. The EU classification system for sustainable economic activity shall facilitate the turning of private capital towards sustainable investment. By establishing pan-European criteria on which economic activities can be considered sustainable, investors will be able to compare green investment opportunities across countries and sectors. This is a goal supported by the government. We are also concerned that the criteria should be based on science and that they should not impose disproportionate burdens on users. In November last year the European Commission sent a draft of a first set of criteria on which activities can be considered sustainable under the classification system. Following the draft, different forms of forestry may be defined as sustainable activities given that certain requirements have been met. In the government’s response to the Commission’s draft, we expressed support for the objectives of the work, but pointed out the need to adjust some of the proposed criteria. For example, there are already common European standards for sustainable forestry. Following the government’s assessment, the criteria for forestry in the classification system should be designed as far as possible in accordance with existing standards, as should several other countries, including the United Kingdom. Sweden and Finland have pointed out. The Commission is now considering the recordings made at the hearing and the first set of criteria has not yet been adopted. The classification system will be further developed over time and the government will follow the process in the EU closely. We attach great importance to providing professional input to the Commission's work. There are important contributions in order to safeguard Norwegian interests. The classification system may affect access to capital in different parts of business, but there is no list of activities in which private investors can invest. It will still be up to the individual investor or lender to assess which activities they will enter into.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1342	I thank you for your answer. Unfortunately, this is once again an illustration of a far-off proposal from the EU, where it has first emerged that environmentally friendly upgrading of hydroelectric power stations in Norway could be defined as unsustainable, and now that investments in the forestry industry can also be defined in the same way. As the Minister of Finance refers to: No, it is not forbidden in the future to invest in those industries, but the whole point of the system is to turn the investments away from that type of investment. What we have to do in Norway in the future is, on the contrary, a shift in Norwegian society, where we are based to a greater extent on the exploitation and further processing of rich Norwegian natural resources, where forest resources are an incredibly important part of it. How will the government actually work on this against the EU to ensure that we have full national freedom of action to make the investments that have been made, even in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1351	The representative is so concerned about being against the EU that he does not see what is the point of this. The point of having such a classification system is that capital should contribute to the green shift. Of course, the government is committed to taking care of Norwegian interests and highlighting what is specific to our natural resources. We have argued strongly, including: on hydropower, on hydrogen and also on forestry. As far as forestry is concerned, as I have already mentioned, several countries, among them Sweden and Finland, who believe that the system that the EU has sent out at the hearing is not adapted to Nordic forestry. Well, then we systematically work towards the EU system to try to influence this. We have a common interest in having a system that is scientific and that contributes to making capital go to green projects. We have full national freedom in this area. It is fully possible to invest in both the one project and the other regardless of what the EU achieves.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1358	The point is that there is too little investment in forestry and wood processing in Norway today. We have to get a promise based on a government plan, where, for example, one provides a green investment company, as the Central Party has proposed, in order to enter heavily into, among other things. the wood processing industry, but it can also be an industrial bank, it can be about better business-internal training schemes, better delivery of timber to the wood processing industry – point by point with an incredibly large number of important proposals. However, the problem is precisely that the whole idea behind the proposal is that one should turn investment away from the areas referred to, and in this case important parts of the forestry industry. Doesn't the Council of State see that if we're going to be able to meet the challenges for the future, we have to do the opposite? We need to invest more in Norwegian forestry and wood processing, listen less to the EU, listen more to sensible, practical policies in Norway and ensure a strong commitment. What kind of plan is the government really got for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1365	I don't think the representative sees the forest for just trees. This is not yes or no to the EU. This is a sensible system to ensure that capital is shifted in an environmentally friendly direction. Capital, both nationally and internationally, can contribute to the green shift. I'm not sure if the Center Party is so very concerned about getting it done. It's the government, and I am. Then we disagree with some of the arrangements in the EU system, and that is why we have contributed to the consultation process. The consultation has ended, the EU is now assessing the systems, and we are going to continue to work against the European Commission in order to safeguard Norwegian interests and to help turn the capital against what we think makes sense. We have put forward a plan for the bioeconomy and green shifts, and forestry plays a very important role in this. We also work with other countries to safeguard our interests. But the big picture is that this classification system is good for the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1374	Then the ordinary question mark is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-17.ana.ud174e1388	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? – Nobody does, and the meeting has been cancelled.
