ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e99	For the sake of infection prevention, the President proposes that the public gallery be closed during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1 to 4 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e154	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e168	The President will distribute the speaking time as follows: 10 minutes to each of the parties Labour Party, Right, Advance Party and Center Party, 5 minutes to each of the parties Socialist Left Party, Left, Christian People's Party, Environmental Party Green and Red and 15 minutes to the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to 10 lines will be given with replies from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up for the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e175	The Korona crisis has great consequences for human life and health in our country, and we owe it to learn from what we have learned, learn from what has worked, and learn from the serious shortcomings and weaknesses that the Corona Commission has revealed. The weaknesses and deficiencies cannot be pushed aside, and they are not beauty flaws. It is true, as the Commission writes, and as pointed out by the government's spokespersons, that all in all the handling has been good. Not least because the Norwegian model, with high confidence, a strong public health service and an organised working life, has worked. The lesson here must be to take care of this model of society. However, the deficiencies and weaknesses identified by the Commission are serious. This is where the need for learning and change lies. There was a lack of good contingency plans, lack of infectious disease protection equipment, lack of extensive and long-term pandemics, among other things. It's not the pandemic itself that was a paradigm shift, as some governments say. The paradigm shift is about the extensive use of disease protection measures. A pandemic has been a probable event. We should be better prepared for that. When we ask what we can learn, it is particularly serious and discouraging that one of the key learning points that the Commission draws out sounds like an echo of the Gjørv Commission in 2012. The crises are different, but the core of the criticism is the same. Preparedness and crisis management suffer from a lack of coordination, coordination and overall management. The Corona Commission states that ‘no responsibility has been given to assess the sum of the consequences’. [[...]] The Yard Commission concluded that critical resources did not match each other. The NRK summarised the comparison as follows: ‘A key point for the 22nd of July Commission was that the resources did not find each other when terror struck. [[...]] The Commission considered that there was a need for better and more coordinated cross-sectoral leadership. A similar point is made nine years later.» We could add an impression from another current case, the sale of Bergen Engines to Russian interests, where, for weeks, conflicting opinions came from four different departments. The coordination of security and preparedness work appears to be insufficient. This criticism and these shortcomings are affecting the management of the government. In 2013, Erna Solberg improved the overall management of the preparedness and security work as one of its main electoral commitments. The coordination of preparedness work was to be strengthened, and Erna Solberg said to the VG in 2013: ‘You need a Prime Minister who is in charge of these matters’. A security element was notified at the Prime Minister's office, and the Ministry of Justice was to have a general responsibility for preparedness. But the so-called security element at the Prime Minister's office did not work, and seven different Justice Ministers have come and gone for eight years in a department that really needed continuity in order to be able to work well with a better preparedness culture and ensure that the entire emergency response system functions separately and as a whole. Now, where we are in 2021, the Storting must ask ourselves how far we have really come since 2013 to provide an emergency response device that is better connected, that works together, that interacts better, and where one part of our fragmented state knows what the other one is doing. This is important, because the next crisis is not going to be like the second. The next crisis may challenge us in new areas, but the standby we have is going to be able to meet them all. It is doubtful – let us be clear – that much has been invested in better preparedness since the terror on Utøya and in the Government Quartet in 2011. preparedness in Norway has improved in many individual areas, including health. It has cross-political support. But before the coronary crisis, there was a general lack of preparedness that could make us better equipped to meet a pandemic. According to the Commission, during the Korona crisis, there have been significant shortcomings in the coordination and management of the handling, and in the Bergen Engines case we see departments that are moving in the legs of each other – again a clear lack of management and coordination. It worries me how far we have really come to ensure better management of security and preparedness work in Norway. Erna Solberg promised to coordinate the preparedness work, take control, as she herself said. Eight years later, this indicates that it has not happened. The treatment of the Corona Commission reports must lead to learning, and learning must lead to a change in key areas: improving preparedness capacity, stronger preparedness culture and more robust preparedness management.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e206	I am pleased that the interim report of the Corona Commission is being the subject of a wide-ranging debate here in the United Kingdom today. We also had a round last week. It's important to learn from what the Commission points to. I have not understood that the government has not said that they want to learn. On the contrary – I think the Prime Minister and the government have been humiliated in relation to the points made by the Commission. But the Prime Minister has also stated that the Commission's work will continue. I see that there are some suggestions on the table today that are looking for themes to be addressed by the Corona Commission. It's okay, it's an independent Commission work, but I expect the Commission to listen to signals from the Storting. The important thing is that while the Corona Commission continues its work, the government continues its work to combat the pandemic. It must be allowed when you stand on the platform in the national assembly of the country, to congratulate someone who has worked a lot over the past year, on the 50th anniversary, Bent Höie, who is 50 years old today. Congratulations to the Minister of Health, who has really been in the storm. The size has been involved in the corona handling, but the government has of course had the primary responsibility because of the infectious diseases law we have. Therefore, it is natural that the Commission points to points where, in their opinion, the government has not done a good enough job. And I am absolutely sure that the government will follow up the remarks when the Commission also delivers its final report. The Prime Minister has also made it clear that when the Commission is done with its work, a big message will be drawn up, and that we will have a full and broad opportunity to discuss it here in Stortinget. We still have major challenges related to the pandemic. Dealing with the crisis is, of course, a priority. The Commission's interim contribution will also be useful in this respect. The Commission points to several points that were too poorly prepared. It says that one was prepared for a pandemic, but not a pandemic that gave us measures that we two years ago would just shake our heads off and see as completely unrealistic. Of course, there's a lot of learning points in there. It will be difficult to be prepared for the unimaginable, but what we have to have in place, and I feel that we have also shown over the year that has passed, is a society that can deal with the unimaginable – a society that responds quickly and interacts. We have that in Norway. There have been preparations for pandemics, and we in Stortinget have participated in several of the preparations. In 2019 we revised the IPD Act, as a follow-up to the 2013 pandemic report, for which well-known Minister of Health Gahr Støre was responsible. A national emergency plan was established for outbreaks of serious communicable diseases. A new version of the national health emergency plan was submitted in 2018. The Commission points to many points, including: the lack of infective equipment, that it should have been in place. It was obviously a weakness in readiness that we have to learn from, and as the government has said they will learn from. Fortunately, the stocks are filled up now, so that we are well supplied for very many years to come. On 12 March Norway closed down. The Commission states that they agree to the use of intervention. These were measures that are the most intrusive we have had in peacetime, and place strong restrictions on the freedom of individuals. It was from being a health crisis to becoming a social crisis, affecting many sectors other than the health sector — yes, all sectors. The Commission points out that this decision should have been taken by the Government and not by the Health Directorate. It is important to comply with the Constitution when such crises occur, and the government has recognised that it was a mistake that it was not the government in the Council of State that made the decision. But the next day, from 13 March, all legal measures have been taken by the government with professional recommendations from the FHI and the Health Directorate. Several articles from the Right will be kept about different parts of the pandemic management, and I would like to say that of course you can view the CORONA interim report as a character book, it is quite legitimate, but you should also consider it as a textbook – a book that shows what action needs to be taken to get out of the pandemic better.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e227	The Corona Commission has submitted an interim report which concludes that overall good management by the authorities has been achieved. We're gonna be happy for that. Norway has had few deaths and relatively few sick people compared with many other countries. Unfortunately, the pandemic is not over yet. We're in the middle of the crisis. An important reason for this is import infection. It is good and necessary that the Prime Minister acknowledges that the government has not done enough to stop the import infection. In the eyes of the Progress Party, the government has been on its heels since last autumn. The report also says that the government lacked a plan to deal with import infection when a new wave of infection arrived in the autumn of 2020. The Progress Party called for mandatory testing at borders as early as August 2020, and the debate continued throughout the autumn. Only from the New Year was this introduced, at least on paper. The lack of control helped us to get several variants of mutated viruses to the country. It helped people to be severely restricted after New Year's. We didn't get to visit each other, and the country was almost shut down, especially in the Oslo area. Shops, restaurants and other establishments were practically closed by the authorities. The government sent, at the hearing, proposals on port bans, in practice putting the population in prison in their own homes, while people were streaming across borders, without control. It's not strange that many were powerfully provoked. We who live in the country followed mostly obediently, with the costs it has, while there were tens of thousands of people across the borders, and with control only on paper. It was the Stortinget who pressured the government to tighten up, so they got more control of the borders. Norway is not a member of the EU. The Norwegian people have voted no twice. We're going to be an independent country. Of course, it makes sense in many contexts to cooperate with the EU and other countries, but the Progress Party is critical of the negressive admiring of the EU's vaccine efforts that the government has shown. In EU countries, the EU Commission is being critical of the work done to obtain vaccines. In Norway, the government distributes tributes. The EU and Norway are far behind the best countries. Unfortunately, the vaccination is small, and thus the reopening is small. The price pays children, young people, students, the elderly and sole proprietors, who are hit hard by the pandemic. Like Israel and other countries, we have had the opportunity to take initiatives against vaccine manufacturers in order to reach their own agreements, but it seems that the government chose to rely on the EU blindly and leave the job to the EU and the European Commission. The Corona Commission report shows that there has been a meeting with AstraZeneca. At the NRK we could read that there was also a meeting with Pfizer, which was then kept secret by the Commission. Why? Has there been a meeting with others? What has been signalled by the Norwegian authorities in the meetings? It is widely claimed from the Minister of Health that it was not possible for Norway to have its own agreements. Why, then, did Israel and other countries do it? They got their own agreements and have vaccinated the population record fast. Is this about money? We've spent over 300 crises. Some billions of vaccines would probably save us money by getting us vaccinated faster, and thus reopening the community. The Progress Party will address this issue and therefore proposes to launch an examination of the government’s vaccine strategy for both procurement and distribution. The experience with EU cooperation on vaccines is that Norway has to take greater responsibility for itself. We are an independent country responsible for its own population in terms of vaccines, medicine and medical devices. We have a Norwegian industry that is ready to contribute with its own production. It is therefore a disappointment that the Prime Minister’s statement again sounds as if she is going to borrow from the EU. The Progress Party disagrees that we should rely blindly on the EU, and we believe that we should ensure production and preparedness in Norway and stop acting as if we were members of the EU. European countries and the European Commission can buy medicines from us. The Progress Party promotes proposals for Norwegian production and preparedness and hopes for a majority to do so. A lot of people indicate that many immigrants have not found out that we are in the middle of a pandemic. Despite massive efforts at information in all languages, the infection among immigrants has increased steadily throughout the pandemic. What the Prime Minister did not mention in his statement was other possible reasons why immigrants were overrepresented. When the Progress Party pointed out that immigrants had to start taking responsibility and complying with the rules on the protection of infection, the government accused us of stigmatizing. The Health Minister said that there was a profession, a lack of living and social conditions that caused a high level of infection among immigrants. Later, several research reports have pointed out that such things are to a small extent the explanation. When the government explains that high infection among immigrants is caused by factors that they cannot deal with, it should not be surprising that it cuts and goes. When it turns out that the government's explanation was completely wrong, it would have been in place with a slightly more humble attitude and less anxiety for the future. The Prime Minister explained that it was not possible to reach the immigrant population. What does this say about Norwegian integration policy? That it's gone down. We spend billions of dollars every year on integration. The crisis has shown us that parts of the population don't get what happens around them, and if they do, they don't care about it, which is even worse. The Prime Minister's message is that it has now been learned that a separate communication system is needed to reach parts of the immigrant population in new crisis situations. The party believes that the lesson must be that we expect those who stay in Norway to learn Norwegian, and that they understand the society in which they live. Administrations shall focus on managing the crisis and not providing adult training in all possible languages through different communication channels. You have a responsibility yourself to get involved in legislation and to follow up on what's going on. Many have been hit hard by the pandemic. Psychiatric disorders have exploded. The same is true of eating disorders. The health queues have increased. Students have great knowledge gaps. Students are having a very difficult time. Self-employed people are afraid of losing their life's work. 200000 is out of work or is out of work. The Prime Minister has stated that no one should be left alone with their challenges after the pandemic. I'm excited about how this is going to be followed up in practice. There are many entrepreneurs who have barely received one penny even though it has been over a year since the pandemic. Many have postponed the payment of taxes and taxes and are afraid to repay them. It could be the load that overturns the barrel. 8 pst. interest does not make it easier. Thousands of people are wondering if it is a job to go back to. The Minister of Finance is concerned with the budgetary balance and use of money. The progress party will not spend more money than necessary, but we will send less money out of the country. We want to spend less money on deer integration by accepting fewer refugees, but strengthening aid in the neighbourhoods. We want to spend less money on symbolic climate action and secure our own population and business. Now, it's about setting up after nutrition and giving priority to repatriating hard-hit business, ensuring that as much as possible comes back to work, helping students close knowledge gaps and reducing health queues again after the corona. It is good that the Commission should continue to work, because the crisis is not over. I will address the loose proposals of the Progress Party and will also take the opportunity to congratulate the Minister for Health on the 50th anniversary. Then we get to hope the pandemic is over soon, so he can celebrate really!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e263	The representative Sylvi Listhaug has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e268	As several speakers have already pointed out, it is important to have this debate in order to learn and also to assess the corona management in the process. But this is just an en route stage, because it is clear that the work of the Corona Commission will continue, and we are going to have more debates on this in the years to come. The clearest conclusion of the Korona Commission was that it was a serious failure that the government was not prepared when the pandemic came. It is also a basis for the Corona Commission that our solid model of society, our broad welfare systems, our working life cooperation and our strong communities have been crucial in the way we have handled the pandemic, and that it is a strength that we are a society in which we trust each other and have confidence in each other and in the governments. I can kind of understand that the government has chosen a strategy where they first want to talk about what they call the paradigm shift, what happened after March 12th last year. That's understandable. I'd say it's human to do that, because the government showed great action in the days around March 12. That one wants to talk about it, I understand, but one also has to take the whole picture that the Corona Commission is presenting to us. The picture is that the government was active on 12 March last year, that we have a society that is able to deal with these kinds of challenges, and that we were too poorly prepared, that preparedness work has not received the attention and seriousness it deserves. It's a paradox because the Right went to government just on an election campaign pledge to make Norway better equipped for this type of crisis. The Commission demonstrates that the commitments on which one went to government have not been fulfilled after seven years and the same number of emergency ministers. It's serious, and you also have to take it with you. I would also like to say that in the course of handling it is the government that has been responsible. It's not right, as the representative of Greece says, that Stortinget has been so very involved in it. In fact, the government has not consulted the Stortinget en route. The government has informed along the way, but it is the government that has the overall responsibility. Then I want to point out a few points from the Corona Commission that I think we need to learn from in the years to come. One is lack of coordination – that the different sectors do not see each other, that one is unable to cooperate quickly enough, efficiently enough. The second is that one did not take sufficient account of the municipalities, which turned out to be one of the most important actors in the entire work. How important the municipalities have been along the way in pandemic management, we were really very little prepared for. They got too little help at first, too little information, too little help, and they also got too little infection protection equipment. But the role of municipalities can almost not be overestimated in the work that is behind us. It shows, also for a centre party heart, how important Norwegian municipalities are, small and large, in taking responsibility for the situation in which they are. As far as preparedness is concerned, there are several proposals for treatment in the Stortinget right now. There is a proposal to be discussed on Thursday. The government parties oppose all the proposals in that setting. There is a proposal for total preparedness that the Central Party has been promoting again in our time. I have no hope that the government parties will go for it. The Minister of Justice claimed that the government was positive about it, but didn't have time for it right now. But the government parties have voted against a total emergency commission since 2017 – because it was someone else who came up with that idea than they did, I think. But I believe that the Corona Commission also shows us that we need a complete review of the whole community's preparedness, and that there has been too much time when we haven't had such a review since 2000, when the Willoch Committee presented its position – A vulnerable society. The Corona Commission must lead us to learn some things. It is important that one will continue to work, and that there will be new treatments, but the centre party has a requirement that we are promoting as a proposal here today, namely that the vaccine strategy cannot be left to the Corona Commission. There, the Storting should contribute to the creation of a separate independent Commission through the strategy adopted by the government in this matter. With that, I will address the proposals behind the Central Party and the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e287	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e292	It was the lack of self-criticism from the government parties last week that made the reaction from the opposition quite harsh. I think I guessed a slightly different tone in the post of the representative of Helleland now, and I'm pleased about that. I think the description of the Commission's report as a textbook is good. It is in order to ensure that we learn, that we also believe that this cannot be a point for the consideration of the Storting, but that the matter should be sent to the Monitoring Committee for further discussion, precisely so that both the Storing and the Government are guided by what is to be learned and what is to be done. The government that is now sitting was elected in 2013 with readiness as a taboo. Therefore, even though the Commission is clear in its commendation for dealing with the pandemic in many areas, the criticism that is there also hits the Prime Minister hard because just better preparedness was such a central promise in 2013. What are the important points to include in the Commission's criticism? One is simply that Norway was too poorly prepared for a pandemic. One had not practiced, one had not a plan, the shelves were empty. The second thing we think is very important for Stortinget to discuss further is the lack of – let's say – a democratic anchoring along the way in the pandemic. It is a question that SV has raised many times along the way. We have a law on infectious diseases that is well adapted to a short-term crisis, but that has proved not to be adapted to a long-term crisis. The lack of involvement of the Stortinget in the process, we believe, has meant that we have had too little transparency, but perhaps it will also show that we have had too little discussion along the way – about those who have lost their efforts, about how different measures and considerations need to be balanced against each other. Cocaine treatment of the most interventional measures related to both closure and reopening would give us another debate. I am absolutely sure that we would be able to agree – as they have done through wide-ranging negotiations in Denmark – but I think it would give the management of the crisis some things that we have lacked. Therefore, one of the conclusions should be that the Code of Disease Protection is amended in such a way that the most intractable measures against the population have to be addressed in the Stortinget. But the most important criticism of the government is the management of the difference that the pandemic has become. It has been consistently the opposition that has had to press ahead with the measures needed for the unemployed and for businesses, while the government has come after, and has not at any time managed to present a firm plan for, for example, what kind of social measures should follow the various closures. SV is promoting a number of proposals today, and that is among other things. because we want to ensure that we also start looking at some aspects of the management of the pandemic and the preparedness that the Commission has not given much attention to. This applies, inter alia, to: the system problems in our healthcare system. Why has Norway so low intensities compared to many other countries? Yeah, it's close to believing that a reason for that is the market-inspired funding system, the corporate model we have in health, which makes it unprofitable to think in the long term. We also have to look at these system issues in this context. How do we create a funding model and an organisation of our hospitals that makes emergency support pay or at least is not unprofitable? Then we have to look at price financing, then we have to look at the business model, then we have to look at how we are to design the management of our hospitals. That is why we are promoting proposals today to ask the Commission to look at them. This also took SV up last year, but the Commission has seen little about it, and I also feel that the government has been quite uninterested in the problem. We also want to ask for further work to be done on social measures. We need to evaluate not only how we've managed the infection, but also how we've dealt with unemployment, the social crisis and the great differences that have proved to be in our country during the pandemic. With that, I will address the suggestions SV has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e313	There is respect for the fact that the government has launched an external independent evaluation and debate on its crisis management in the middle of the pandemic, and that the Prime Minister agrees with the Corona Commission at a key critical point. It merges into a systematic pattern for which the government boasts – that they have been so open and available from day one about what they have seen in the work of action, but also about the doubts and assessments in the process, the desire they have had to listen to the whole time and the interaction with the Storting. That all of us, including the Storting, have such an humble approach when we are so small to evaluate and learn, and – most importantly – to facilitate that we, as the government and the responsible, are better foreordained if there should be a new, similar crisis in the future, I believe is wise, not least in order to take care of and further develop the unique trust we have between the governmental powers, citizens and civil society in Norway – a trust relationship the Commission briefly sums up as follows: ‘However, the authorities could not succeed without population disintegration.’ In this sense, the authorities, the powers of government, are as large as the government. People out there don't necessarily make a difference to government and greatness. They're making up their minds about how we've run the country through the crisis, and about the powers of government together, this is so that the decisive trust not only stands, but comes out of the coronary crisis. For me not to be misunderstood: I am of course said that the Storting has an important role to play in being constructively critical of how a government is acting all the time, even in a crisis situation. In view of this particular crisis, I still believe that the Storting should also use time and resources to ask questions about the Storting could handle such a pandemic differently and better, before we might fall for the temptation to make short-term political coins on one side to criticize the government. We, the Stortinget, have given the government and the health authorities extensive powers in infectious diseases laws to deal with such a pandemic. And without going to take on the role of benefactor, I strongly doubt whether the Stortinget had at the time planned to set up the law so that it is optimally adapted to deal with such a crisis situation. That debate is not time to take place today, in the midst of the crisis. But when the Storting is going to have the big evaluation debate in the wake of the Coronapandemic, it is still one of the biggest and most important issues that should be considered: has the Storting properly addressed through the law and framework that Norway as a society is well enough to deal with similar crises in the future? Can the interaction be made even better, even from the Storting side? Finally, on behalf of the Left, I would like once again to say that we at Stortinget are impressed by the work of the government and the two leading trade unions we have, the Institute of Public Health and the Directorate of Health, have closed down. No country in the world was well-forbidden to tackle such a pandemic. No one had the will to have plans, strategies and preparedness that were predicated on a totally unknown virus, which was so contagious, and which has such fatal disease images for vulnerable groups. Nevertheless, Norway is one of the countries with the lowest rates of infection, the lowest rate of death and the lowest rate of economic loss. So we all know that far from being rosy, and that a lot of work is still left, not least for those who wear out healthily, either because of the aftereffects of infection or because of the stress of the shut-down they have caused. As you can see, it is very easy to stand behind the target government is so clear: no one should stand alone with challenges that are the cause of the pandemic. Together, we're going to get out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e331	Let me start by stressing that it is important to remember that this report is an interim report and not an overall assessment of the entire handling process. The pandemic is still going on, it's not over. We need to be clear that conditions can be revealed even in the months ahead, conditions that have not been addressed and highlighted in this report, simply because the pandemic is still going on. Of course, in a report like the one we have now received on the table, the main focus will be retrospective. But as I said, now we're taking with us what's come out, we're learning from it, and we're looking forward to it. This report needs to be a tool for detecting new important knowledge towards the final phase of the pandemic. Overall, the management of the pandemic by the authorities has been good. Here's the report. Then we're going to learn from the points in the report that document weaknesses. In society’s crisis depression, the last crisis that arose is likely to be the starting point. We often plan as if the next crisis is going to be the same as the previous one. It is naturally human nature to think like that, but this crisis can teach us that we also need to prepare for new scenarios, new types of crises, and that the unmistakable can happen – that has happened in this. Being prepared for the full closure of Norway has not been able to have a full picture of the consequences. It's an extreme situation that, as a society, we haven't been able to see the consequences of completely, regardless of who's been running. Then we are very happy that we have put life and health first in this crisis. It is an important choice of values, and it has been a fundamental approach to the whole crisis management process. We have given priority to children and young people. It's also an important choice of value. Norway is in a particular class internationally in terms of the number of deaths. There may be several reasons for this, but there is no doubt that, among other things. is the result of clear priorities, where we put life and health first. The discussion about organisation is often a repetition of the evaluation of crises. This is also the case in this report. But at the same time we have to remember everything that has worked very well, which we have to take with us as positive experiences. It's also an important lesson. So we know that we will notice the consequences of this pandemic for a long time to come. Human costs are high. Let's not underestimate those challenges. The psychological pressures can have a major impact on those involved. Therefore, it is important that we further strengthen the commitment to mental health, and we need to strengthen our efforts to prevent it, so that we can catch up with children and young people who are struggling and who are at risk of falling outside. The pandemic has reinforced the need for a closer and clearer follow-up of children and young people, and not least of those exposed to violence and those struggling with mental health. This is important for one to be equipped to take life back to normal again when the crisis is over. Health, school and child protection are important tasks here, and it is important to pursue policies that provide families with the best possible starting point. I believe afterwards will show that this government led the country safely through the crisis, and that the measures taken helped to do the most important thing: save lives. Now we are facing a big and important test when we gradually return to a more normal state. Do we remember all those who struggle with mental distress? Do we then remember the children who had their childhood waiting, and all those who experienced loneliness and isolation? It's when it opens up that we're really going to show what trust society we are. It's about individuals, the small communities that are going to be back in place and function normally again, the families, children and young people, those who have been out of work and unemployed, for whom we, as a large community, are now to stand up and help to create a new future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e355	In the last week’s presentation, Erna Solberg acknowledged that the pandemic is falling crooked, but she continues to suspect that the government’s crisis policy is increasing the disparities, which go most out of proportion to workers, children and young people, those who live alone, those who are sick and vulnerable. Not least, the government has taken care to keep the crisis packages out of the Commission's mandate, even though it is in the crisis packages that the government is just giving rich business owners and property lords everything they point to, while the bill is being passed on to employees. That's why we in Red say that although the virus itself does not make a difference to people, the government's pandemic management has definitely increased the differences. Our demand is clear: we have been through an unfair closure, now we must ensure a fair reopening of our society. The pandemic has also shown how the right-wing government has balded and chosen with our well-being in a way that has made us more vulnerable. There are too few intensities, staff have too small job breaks, it is involuntary part-time and also outsourcing services. All of this in total has increased the risk of infection in our society. The report has also shown that the government gave too much pressure to open up labour imports from highly infected countries, despite warnings from health authorities — that is, the opposite of what the Minister of Health told Stortinget. Red's demands remain that the control committee address this and get all the facts on the table. The Korona Commission's report is a real slaughter of the emergency policy of the right-wing government, which opted to improve Norway's preparedness. This also hits the Progress Party with its seven – well – Justice Ministers in a row and row of the Solberg government, including the party leader Sylvi Listhaug. As it said in a newspaper comment last week: ‘Since 2013, Frp has had so many emergency ministers that they would break the Corona regulations if they met at home for a mimre festival.’ It's going to be interesting to see if the parties that sit or have been in government will block the role of the Storting in controlling their own work. The problem – and it should be said – goes far beyond the current government. Over the last decades, changing governments have given priority to self-sufficiency and preparedness. Contamination equipment stand-bys have been sold and closed. The same has happened to emergency stores for food and medicine. Red expects the other parties to soon put away the naive belief in free trade. It has to end with putting down and selling out the country's preparedness and relying blindly on long international supply chains and the pharmaceutical industry's giant companies. The report also shows that the Constitution was likely broken. Everyone knows that it is precisely in a crisis that the risk of undermining democratic principles and rights is greatest. But instead of ensuring that the crisis response to the pandemic was within the framework of the Constitution and human rights, the government raised itself above such considerations and violated both the Constitution and human rights. The requirement of red is clear: the report of the Corona Commission must be thoroughly addressed by the Stortinget before the elections. We have therefore proposed that the Prime Minister's statement be sent to the Control Committee for consideration, and I maintain that proposal today. Red takes very seriously all the transfer of power to the European Union, especially when it may be contrary to the Constitution, as the report points out that it could probably have happened when we joined the EU agreement JPA without treatment in the Storting, despite the fact that the Minister’s lawyer wrote in a letter to the government that it ‘appears reasonably clear that the consent of the Storting is necessary’. Solberg says that she «informed the sample that the case was at the limit of what should be dealt with in the Storting. [[...]] I did not take note of the comments made by the parliamentary leaders.' [[...]] Nobody at Stortinget has been able to confirm so far that Solberg informed Stortinget about this. So I ask again: Did Solberg inform the Council of Government attorney's conclusion that the agreement requires the consent of Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e382	The Corona Commission has 63 learning points and recommendations, and the government is working on the follow-up of all of these in different ways in the future. It points, inter alia, to: that Norway was not well prepared, that the authorities had not created scenarios and carried out exercises that took into account the closure of large sections of society. I agree that in the preparedness work, we have too little challenged agreed truths about how pandemics should be handled. We've been prepared for a flu pandemic, and there were both systems and national plans for this, but we weren't prepared for a pandemic that required extensive social closure. On the contrary, it was warning against just that kind of action. One important lesson is that we can't just draw out the scenarios we think are most likely. We also have to plan for what seems less likely. A pandemic exercise could have revealed some of the deficiencies in the plan that the Commission is addressing. The Commission points out that Norway should have had larger stocks of vector equipment. I agree with that. The Commission also points out that the decision to impose measures on 12 March should be taken by the Council of State. Although the decision was taken by the Health Directorate, the decision was taken in consultation with the government. However, I agree that the decision should have been taken by the Council of State. The Commission also considers that the government lacked a plan to deal with import infection when a new wave of infection occurred in Europe in the autumn of 2020. We had a system in place, but we have to admit in retrospect that the quarantine obligation was too long based on trust. The government will use the Commission's report for further management of the pandemic and to prepare us for future crises. What we've been doing for over a year now represents a paradigm shift. We have used infectious measures to an extent and over as long as few had imagined possible. We have learned along the way, and we have adjusted the course when necessary. Also from what's worked, we're going to take the necessary lessons, because there's a lot that worked. Basic preparedness in Norway has been good. The assessment of the Corona Commission is that overall good management of the pandemic has been achieved. Measured per capita, mortality rates in Norway are about one tenth of the average for other European countries. Norway is also one of the least economically affected countries in Europe. Much has worked, but the crisis is not over. Managing the crisis remains the top priority of the government. We are also in the process of dealing with the impact of some of the measures that have been implemented. I have previously, in the context of the presentation of the reopening, pointed to the four important areas that we regard as follow-up. Some of those who have experienced covid-19 experience long-term symptoms. The Health Directorate is now working on completing a national plan for rehabilitation after covid-19 disease. Few patients experience particularly complex and persistent symptoms. The government wants to make better provision for these patients to receive a better investigation and a more personalised rehabilitation service. The government will therefore entrust regional health enterprises with the task of setting up interdisciplinary follow-up clinics for those most severely affected. We will also ask the Health Directorate to consider establishing a web-based training and rehabilitation programme to focus on symptomatic follow-up, training, mental health and nutrition. Such a programme has been developed in the United Kingdom and is a new and innovative way of running training. The government has looked at four important follow-up themes, as I have also mentioned to the Stortinget earlier, and we are coming back to the Stortinget in the context of the revised national budget to strengthen all these areas and to limit the long-term impact. At the same time, it is an overall objective that we should lift Norway out of this crisis, also by raising the number of jobs, and ensure that when we leave this crisis, no one is left alone with their challenges caused by the pandemic. We're going to get out of the crisis together, as we've been in this crisis together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e412	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e417	I would first like to say that I think the Prime Minister's tone now gave the impression of the will to learn and listen to many of the conclusions. It's positive. I would also agree with what she says at the end, about the importance of following up the consequences for those who have had covid-19. It's an international phenomenon that we have to contribute to, and I think we have medical environments that can contribute. I want to go back to the learning points that are important to what's ahead of us. I will ask the Prime Minister a question of coordination, because it has been revealed in the Commission's report that: ‘... no one has taken responsibility for assessing the sum of the impacts on society as a whole.’;» My first question is: does the Prime Minister agree with the Commission on this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e429	I agree with the Commission that there is a consequential error that we have not made assessments of the alternative course of using the rules of the IPD to shut down activity. When it's not in the scenarios, we haven't followed up and seen the consequences of those scenarios. There will be a consequential error due to a lack of challenges in view of it. What we've been looking at is coordination and challenges in the context of an influenza pandemic, based on the news from former Minister of Health Gahr Støre, who had a flu pandemic as a background. We've looked at the consequences of the most likely scenario, which is also what DSB has created, with short-term, three-month, great activity – how we're going to keep up activity, how we're going to ensure continuity and the consequences of it. However, because scenarios have not been drawn with shut-down, the consequences of shut-down have not been assessed either. That is what in sum lies in the criticism of the Corona Commission. Since I agree that we should see those scenarios, I also agree that there are some accompanying errors.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e438	This is described as an accompanying error. So now we're after March 12th, a year after, we're living in the handling of corona. Does the Prime Minister, who was so concerned about better governance and coordination in 2013, see that there should be changes in the way we ensure that coordination? This is where she relates to the possibility of an influenza epidemic, and there is a consequential error that there was something other than a possible influenza epidemic. The Commission notes that there were no plans for each sector to deal with intervention and that the plan was not dimensioned for a long-term crisis. The question is: we have had proposals on preparedness elements in the Prime Minister's office, we have had the point of better coordination, and the report states that the sectors were in the middle of each other. Is this just an accompanying error, or is it also evidence that there is a lack of management and management in emergency work in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e445	I have not seen that the Commission says that you were walking in the legs of each other. It's said that you haven't done that analysis in terms of the opening of the infectious disease law to shut down activity. The reason for that is that it was warning against. In fact, you had to maintain activity. In the World Health Organization's plans, it was important to maintain activity, not to shut down. In our plans and in the European Plan, all of this was based. So it's a mistake we see in retrospect that it shouldn't have been considered that we should have challenged these scenarios in a better way. I have to say that I have not heard that you say that you have gone into the legs of each other, but you have not seen the accompanying errors for others, i.e. not seen what is the challenge in other sectors, in addition to the fact that if many get sick, you have to make sure to keep running – the continuity work. There have been plans in the government for how to maintain activity if many get sick.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e452	So it must be understood that the Prime Minister believes that preparedness management, preparedness work in Norway and in the government are patents, it has all the qualities needed? What hit us here was the following error, that we had planned for the flu, and then there was a coronary apathy? There were warnings of a possible coronary apathy from international health authorities over the past few years. So my question is, for the next crisis, does the Prime Minister see her satisfied and satisfied with the way emergency work is managed in Norway? Is that the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e459	I believe that it is not possible to draw the conclusions from the answers I have given, from the post I made, or from the statement in 45 minutes. We've pointed out a lot of things we're going to get better at -- also challenging the scenarios in a completely different way in the future, simply planning more for the unmistakable rather than planning very well for the imaginable, what we think, because we're taking on other events. Of course, there's something we have to learn to challenge more in this work. We have systematically gone through all the departments during my prime minister period — in the government's preparedness committee, through the 'internal' at the Prime Minister's office, which has made internal evaluations and looked at the challenges in many areas. We have identified weaknesses in the work we have, related to the power grid, related to water supply. One of the reasons why former Councillor Listhaug was very clear to the Municipality of Oslo that they could not postpone the construction of alternative water supply in Oslo is that Oslo was very vulnerable to water supply. All of this is work we've done because we've coordinated and looked at weaknesses, but we always have to learn, and we can always get better.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e466	I am very pleased that the Prime Minister said that she wants to contribute to a review, an evaluation of the vaccine strategy, that was mentioned the last time. It is clear that the whole key for us not to get reopened now is that the vaccination has been delayed. We've seen what's happening in Israel, where you've gotten more of your everyday life back in many ways, and I think many in the Norwegian community are greatly envying them. Now, luckily, something faster is going on here, too, but we're unfortunately still far away. It has been mentioned in the report that there has been a meeting with AstraZeneca. Later it became known in the media that there had also been a meeting with Pfizer. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if Norway had been in contact with more than these two, possibly what was the subject of this, and whether the Prime Minister believes Norway has done enough to reach its own agreements, as we see the best countries have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e473	I have to refer to the Minister of Health to answer in detail about what measures and who were talked about. What we have received feedback about is that it was not possible to get that kind of agreement. You didn't want to go to an individual country, you had to be in alliances. The alliance that gave us the widest possible opportunity gave us six different agreements we could enter into as part buyers, at a time when we didn't know which vaccines would be successful. Some countries have received a lot of vaccines, e.g. received AstraZeneca vaccines, they have bought many of them and concluded agreements. It would be very critical for Norway today when we have now suspended the use of AstraZeneca, if we had entered into one agreement with one company. Therefore, this protection, where we had six different agreements through the EU, was quite important, because we had options in several areas. It's given us a greater degree of security. When you go through those countries that have better vaccination, there are two things: Israel is a special case, and the others have either their own production or have been vaccinated by the Chinese. That's essentially what the answer is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e481	It underlines the importance of own medicine production in Norway, for which I hope the Progress Party will have a majority. The Progress Party is pleased that the Prime Minister has said that no one should stand alone with their challenges after the pandemic. It's going to cost a lot of money if we're going to follow up on this in practice, whether it's mental health, health cows, knowledge gaps for students, children and young people who are struggling, the elderly, the business world or fighting unemployment. It's going to cost a lot of money. The progress party is definitely ready to set the run by industry, prioritizing this forward. But I would like to ask the Prime Minister: what will be most important for the government in the future? Is it the budgetary balance the Minister for Finance is concerned with, or is it actually ensuring that no one is left alone with their challenges after the pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e488	Although we should be concerned that no one is left alone after the pandemic, we must also be concerned about ensuring an economic development that does not exacerbate the long-term balance in Norway. This means that children and young people who have been through a pandemic should not experience that they will be stuck with significantly higher taxes or pension challenges that they will have to pay for the generation before, our Pay-as-You-Go system. That's why it's important that we manage to do both. The most important thing in the future, while taking care of those who have had challenges related to this, either educational or health or in other ways, is to have a very clear focus on one thing: creating more jobs in the private sector and making sure that we get more who are involved in financing the public expenditure in the future. It creates jobs for people, and it creates tax revenues in the future that will help us to have the opportunity to finance well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e495	The report of the Corona Commission must, of course, lead to, and may have already in part led to, a whole new thinking on preparedness and, in particular, the storage of important equipment: infectious disease protection equipment, medicines and other things. Perhaps it will also lead us into a debate on whether we should establish vaccine production. Globally, Norway is a major producer of veterinary vaccines. Perhaps we also need to think in that direction about vaccine production in the years to come. The centre batch has been concerned that one must have a good dialogue with the national producers who have now thrown around and started to produce infectious agents, and also restore some of the important measures that have been taken, including: contingency agreements with enterprises some years ago, but which were concluded. On Thursday, a case in which there will be a majority for several of the proposals will be dealt with by means of a Central Party Document 8. But the government parties are against it. Why do the government parties do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e504	Firstly, I would like to stress that we fully agree that we need to have more storage equipment for infectious diseases, and that we need to cooperate with the Norwegian industry and take care of that development. We have also commissioned the Health Directorate to follow up when they are now going to work on how infectious diseases equipment should be. At the same time, it's hard to imagine that we can maintain an equal amount of production, because we've had extreme consumption in relation to what's normal consumption. That's why it's important that we have readiness to do things, maybe more than just produce them all the time. In some areas, there are new businesses. I opened a company in Stord last week that manufactures medical infectious diseases equipment and has good contracts with the health service for its development, and that has a high quality of it. So the Korona Commission actually says that we've already begun to establish stocks of medicines, and that it was well started before the pandemic came. One of the things they're actually saying we were doing is this work. I think it's important that we have stocks for both, but it's important that we make sure that we have an organization of this, that helps us always get circulation of the things we have, so that things don't go out to date.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e513	I understand that the Prime Minister believes that much of this is going on, and I hope that the government parties will think about and vote for the proposals to be dealt with in the Stortinget on Thursday. It would make sense for us to have a consensus on that kind of good proposal, both on the dialogue with national manufacturers of emergency equipment and on emergency arrangements. I have a question that more concerns the municipalities, because here I have to say that some of the things that have been impressed by this pandemic are the role of the municipalities and how they have taken the responsibility and tasks they have been assigned – whether small or large, whether it is small Frosta in Trøndelag or large city municipalities, they have taken that responsibility. It is clear that those who have been at the forefront there have been the municipal superiors and municipal infectious agents. I think one of the things you have to look at in the years to come is how to ensure recruitment and stabilisation in that part of the service, because they're going to be a critical moment in any treatment of pandemics, large or small pandemics. How will the government follow that up?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e522	It's absolutely right that the municipalities have done a great job. The TISK strategy is one of the things that makes Norway more successful in many areas than some of our neighbouring countries that have chosen the same macro-measures, namely that we have tracked and quarantined more, in particular the detection of infection. Therefore, it has been so important for us to make sure that we do not get so much pressure and pressure in Norway that we do not manage the infection detection, because it could scratch with the first. So there's a lot of good reason to give municipalities credit for that work. There has also been a good support device from the Institute of Public Health, and we have had groups to help with the follow-up. I agree that having infectious physicians who are good, competent and good, who are well placed and who give good advice to the politicians in the municipalities is absolutely crucial. I have not heard that this is a recruitment challenge. If it's a recruitment challenge, we have to talk to the municipalities about how we can recruit to that scheme. But it's also important to say that the IPD gives the local authorities extremely much more power. Basically, it's those who have the power to make decisions in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e529	Norway has significantly fewer intensities than the OECD average, and it is a challenge that has made us vulnerable and will continue to make us vulnerable if we cannot solve it. This is a problem that the Commission has addressed to a small extent, and which is largely about how we organise our hospitals, how we finance our hospitals, what we should stimulate in the way that money is managed. One of the lessons we need to learn is that preparedness and higher intensive capacity need to be given priority in the future, and that we need to have a funding system that will enable us to do so, away from today's unit price financing. Does the Prime Minister recognise that we have too few intensities and, as SV has proposed today, will he allow the Commission to look at these systemic challenges in the healthcare sector as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e534	The government has absolutely recognised this, both by following up what was in the plan to treat the pandemic with short-term educated people to help when we need it. That's the pandemic preparedness we need. We're never going to have intensive sites to deal with a large-scale pandemic in ways other than having powerful measures to reduce infection. But we've seen that we need it, and that's why we've told the Health Minister's letter that they're building up capacity. And here's capacity not primarily beds, here's capacity primarily for people with competence. This is why it has been said that there should be at least a hundred new training positions for intensive nurses during this year. So this is what we're doing. I have nothing against the Commission looking at those questions, we do not disagree with this, but to say that this means that we are not going to have price financing, is just an excuse to implement a policy that makes us get poorer and less efficient in health businesses. I don't think that's a good idea. However, preparedness needs to be taken into account – a little independent of price financing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e539	Let me repeat a key point in the report: the authorities should be sure that pandemic management took place under the Basic Law and human rights. It obviously didn't happen at the beginning of the pandemic. Does Solberg take self-criticism for this? Possible unconstitutional transfer of powers to the EU, with the JPA agreement, without the consent of the Storting, we consider serious. So it is said from Solberg that she informed the Corona Committee that the agreement was at the limit of what the government could adopt, but did not ‘note critical comments from the parliamentary leaders’. [[...]] I ask, and it is now for the third time, with hope for an answer: Did the Prime Minister inform the Minister of Government's assessment that Norwegian participation in this EU agreement requires Storting's consent?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e546	If I'm allowed to start with the first question, we have admitted that we initially made too few assessments of the Constitution and human rights. Now we used an infectious disease law that was passed by the Stortinget, and I assume that when a case has been decided by the Stortinget with warrants given, it is actually assessed according to the Constitution. So even though we didn't make explicit assessments in the hurry we had in the first piece, we've changed it. That's why, since then, we've made assessments of all the other decisions we're making, and have a completely systematic approach to it. Because we saw early, and long before the Commission came, that there was a weakness, and we had to make a better assessment of it. But I have to admit that we had a certain urgency, and we used a law that was passed by the Storting, with the division of labour that was in that law. I really assume that once we've passed laws, they're within. With regard to the JPA agreement, we have noted from the meeting that we were briefing – and we were aware that we were going to inform – on this, because it was urgent, it was a difficult matter that we did not have time to wait for if we were to participate in the buy-in. Then we have noted exactly what has been said, or written, to the Commission. We have not started there what different assessments were, but we have said to the parliamentary leaders of the Corona Committee that there are doubts about the question of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e553	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e559	The Korona Commission has delivered its first report, and the Prime Minister has presented his statement to the Stortinget. The Commission concludes that we were too poorly prepared. Norway lacked infective equipment, medicinal products and other necessary equipment. Vulnerability due to low intensive capacity in hospitals was also well-informed. Coordination between sectors is missing. In his statement, the Prime Minister said to the Stortinget: ‘I agree that in the emergency response work we have too little challenged agreed truths about how pandemics should be handled in Norway.’ According to the Prime Minister, the government had planned for a pandemic, just not this pandemic. There are in particular two questions the Storting must be answered: Were we prepared for a pandemic in line with the Prime Minister's claim they had planned for? Should we have plans for a more serious pandemic? Question 1 is answered by the Corona Commission. The government was informed, but not prepared. It has not been practised at national preparedness level for pandemic influenza in line with the Infectious Disease Protection Act, nor have scenarios, plans or exercises taken into account for the use of the instruments contained in the Infectious Disease Protection Act. It is not practiced on extensive containment even if the IPD allows it. In addition, recent national civil or health exercises have not been carried out where pandemic crisis management, epidemic or infectious diseases, outbreaks of infection have been a major theme. The government has taken a far too little position on what a serious incident that pandemic means for society as a whole, and it is therefore difficult for each sector to discharge its responsibilities. The government sent out messages to municipalities and health businesses: prepare you for high sick leave, up to 40 p.m., but no analysis of what impact on society was about 40 p.m. was ill-reported. So to question 2: Should we have plans for a more serious pandemic? Although covid-19 is a new virus, corona is not a new type of virus. SARS, severe acute respiratory disease, has a high level of infectiveness, morbidity and mortality of about 10 pst. It was registered in China in November 2002, and the majority of patients were aged 25–70 years and had been healthy in advance. In July 2003, the WHO declared the SARS epidemic to be above, and there was never a vaccine. In the autumn of 2012, a new type of coronavirus was detected in persons who had been in the Middle East, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome, MERS. Mortality is high and is about 35 pst. based on the reported cases. In the Pandemic Influenza Storing Message in 2012, SARS/Koronavirus was reported and used as an example of much more severe pandemics. ‘The next serious natural pandemic need not be malignant influenza A. A SARS or Corona pandemic is not impossible to imagine.’ The government’s pandemic plan was not updated after SARS, MERS, nor after the ebola crisis in Congo in 2014, when also a health worker from Norway was infected. Various emergency policy-makers have come and gone to Solberg's government without ensuring overall and social security for the sectors. The Prime Minister has stated that the covid-19 pandemic is a paradigm shift. The working party believes it is important that the Storting looks closely at the Commission’s use of the term ‘paradigm shift’. The Commission uses that word to describe that no pandemic has been previously managed to kill the virus. It is the premise for the Commission’s use of the word ‘paradigm shift’.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e591	The best thing about the Corona Commission's report is that it takes on board that this is something society has managed together – not 'us' and 'them', but 'we'. But, of course, the government is responsible. We still have major challenges related to the pandemic. The Korona epidemic is not over, and it will take time for us to fully know what this epidemic has brought. We know that some of those who got sick will suffer consequential damage and need follow-up for a longer time. Our job is to make sure that they get help. At an early stage, decisions were made under great uncertainty and without a certain knowledge of the effect, but we should be happy that they were acted quickly and resolutely. Had one demanded a full overview before a trade, we had more sickness and suffering. Countries that waited longer came out worse. Those who did not take this seriously and had an idea that the virus was not so dangerous were severely punished for exactly that. Norway was not well prepared when the covid-19 pandemic came. We were prepared for a pandemic, and had both systems and plans for it, but the course of disease, the pathways of infection and the treatment of covid-19 are different than for many other viruses. We got a new virus to handle. This pandemic involves the use of infectious disease control measures to such an extent and over time that no one could imagine or plan for it, as the Corona Commission is also concerned. But just dealing with the unknown and communicating clearly characterizes good crisis management, and the Commission points out that the government has succeeded in doing just that. The follow-up to government strategy has been good. Of course, there has been a debate, and that is still the case. It characterizes a democracy that one has a debate in both good and more demanding days. The press, opposition, professionals and others have asked critical questions. The fact that we have this debate today, based on a report ordered by the government, shows that everyone is taking this seriously, and we are busy learning and getting better. The Commission considers that the risk in one sector depends on the risk in another sector is not adequately taken into account. It has to be followed up. That's the total readiness that's interesting. A chain is never stronger than its weakest link. At the same time, one sees that some of the things that have been good is how different social sectors have cooperated, and the flexibility we see in the system. Not least we see it in the responsibility taken by the municipality. It is a responsibility they have for the rest under the Infectious Disease Protection Act, but in extending it, the municipalities have received a number of additional tasks they did not believe they would get a little over a year ago. At all, there's a lot we're doing here in the country now that we didn't know about winter 2020. But that is exactly what is ready – how well one is equipped to meet new and unexpected tasks. The Commission emphasises the strong responsibility of the municipalities for the work on infectious diseases in Norway. The amount of action has sometimes been large and particularly affected where the infection has been greatest. This has hit some more than others. Individual industries have come out extra badly, and many are rightly concerned about young and elderly people who experience solitude. There shall be proportionality between the infection situation and the measures and compensatory measures where possible, but such measures can never fully compensate for what we might call a normal situation. Our country has been and is in an extraordinary situation, and it is demanding too many. Visitary restrictions were introduced in hospitals and hospitals to stop the infection. These restrictions were often practiced a little too rigorously both during and after the first wave of infection. For many, the biggest thing is missing is getting a hug or getting a trip. We're all different, and the contractions are different. Had a full overview of the consequences of any tightening up, one might have been more concerned with compensatory measures, but job number one has been and is still stopping the infection, and there we have collectively seen better than many countries it is natural to compare with. One of the conclusions of the Commission is that overall the management of the pandemic is good. We have to take with us that the report only covers the beginning of the pandemic. That is why it is good that the Commission continues its work. We're not done with this pandemic. We don't know when and how it ends. We do not fully know the consequences either economically or healthfully. What we know is that we have a strong nation with a high degree of trust. Norway is a very good country. We have very good people, and we trust each other. That's the main reason why this has gone well. That's also the main reason why everything's going to be fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e616	The Korona Commission has provided a thorough report with several letters of credit, points of learning and recommendations. They conclude that the authorities have managed the pandemic well, but that there are critical conditions, especially when it comes to preparedness. The government knew that a pandemic was the national crisis that was most likely and would have the most negative consequences. It is a serious failure that they were still not banned when the covid-19 pandemic came. There was no scenario, plans or exercises. The government knew that it was likely that it would be difficult to obtain infection protection equipment under a pandemic. Still, the warehouse was empty. The evaluation of both the SARS epidemic in 2003 and the Ebola outbreak in 2015 concluded that there could be a global lack of infectious equipment. Nevertheless, the government has its only plan to buy equipment in the global market in the usual way. If the infection in China had been in a phase with the rest of the world, the situation would have been particularly critical. The Prime Minister takes self-criticism at this point. That's good, and it's necessary. The Prime Minister also pointed out that the missing plans were due to the fact that one had plans for an influenza pandemic, not a pandemic that required extensive social suppression. The Prime Minister said in the statement that it would never be possible to plan for all events in advance, and that there is a discussion about how detailed the crisis scenario should be. I think this is a bit provocative, because the DSB's 2019 crisis scenario report deals with pandemics. That's the case of an influenza virus, but it's an influenza virus that has a huge impact on society. The scenario is 35 000 seriously ill, 6 000 – 8 000 dead. It was stated in the report that today’s intensive capacity is not enough to meet the need for this scenario, so one should have also learned from the scenario that was. Standby is about being bid to handle unexpected events of different sizes. Preparedness is essential to our social security, and it is a political responsibility to address different scenarios. This responsibility has not been taken by the government, even though in 2013 they opted for better preparedness in society. The next pandemic will be different, if and when he comes. He may be less contagious and less serious, or vice versa. The Prime Minister also said in the statement: ‘I would also like to stress that the government placed great emphasis on protecting emergency services, the provision of cancer patients, children and drugs/psychiatry, which is also a good thing.’ I ask you, does the government know this? The Korona Commission notes that Norway has not had an excess mortality during the pandemic, but the Commission also notes that this may change in a longer perspective, for hospital activity related to acute supply, cancer, intoxication and psychiatry was framed. During the shutdown, prompt help went down by 24 pst. Russ and mental disorders suffered a decrease in daily treatment of 22 p.m., for children 14 p.m. The most worrying thing is that cancer diagnosis has fallen so sharply. The screen saver was disabled, but the screen saver is still running. There are many fewer new cancer cases detected last year, a decline of 17 pst. with breast cancer diagnostics, intestinal cancer 16 pst. This is serious, and we must address this in the future, because such a reduced activity in the specialist services may result in fewer patients being diagnosed and treated for their disease. There may be consequences for health status and disease in the population in the future, and this may increase the number of health services in the years to come. It is a political responsibility to ensure that that capacity exists, so that the result of this pandemic is not that there is a greater mortality than is necessary. We have to learn from this. Both hospital capacity and intensive capacity are important both before, during and after a pandemic. We have to learn that the patient's health care, which is the government's vision, did not tolerate this pandemic, because the patient's health care is not about the country's health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e635	The Covid l9 pandemic has shown us how far-reaching the consequences of major cross-sectoral crises can be and how demanding they can be to deal with. The Corona Commission points to several improvement points, but the overall assessment is therefore that the management of the covid l9 pandemic by the authorities overall has been good. One important reason for this is that we have built a good basic readiness. The government has been systematically following the recommendations of the 22nd July Commission since we joined. A lot has improved. Therefore, the Norwegian emergency response system is well prepared for major and cross-sectoral events to occur. We are prepared by having knowledge of a wide range of events that can meet us. We are prepared through extensive practice activities and through systematic follow-up and learning from exercises and past events. And even though we haven't practiced the covid-19 pandemic course, other exercises contribute to strengthening basic preparedness and to having a well-developed central crisis management system. The Korona Commission also states that the Ministry of Justice and Defence has good training in being a leading department. Then we are prepared by having concrete arrangements to organise crisis management, and tools that can be used quickly. Examples of this are instructions for the ministry’s work on social security, the Council of Crisis, the role of the leading ministry and the framework for the 14 critical social functions. The framework for the 14 critical societal functions is set out each year by the Ministry of Justice and Defence. 1 S and is well known in the administration. During the NATO exercise Trident Juncture in 2018, the departments with primary responsibility for the 14 functions reported regularly on the ability to maintain continuity during the scenario followed by the exercise. A traffic lighting system with red, yellow and green was put into service. This reporting system was therefore practiced and ready to be used when the pandemic hit us. The list of the 14 functions also made it possible for the government, within two days of 12 March last year, to draw up a list of the officers who would have children in kindergarten and high school even if these were mainly closed. The same list has provided an important basis for priorities for entry regulations to Norway. The Corona Commission notes that during the pandemic there have been no significant challenges related to ensuring the continuity of the 14 functions. I share this assessment. Twelve of the functions have always been green. The control and crisis management function was yellow for a period in March and April last year, including: because of concerns about how the handling load could affect the handling capability. The health and care function has been yellow throughout the pandemic. It has different causes, but among other things concern for vulnerable children and young people. Reporting on health and care has therefore contributed to a sustained focus on this particular group under the pandemic. All 14 critical societal functions are cross-sectoral and reports have provided the government with a good understanding of cross-sectoral challenges under the pandemic. In addition, the Ministry of Justice and Security regularly obtained reports from all departments on the impact of measures and presented an overall assessment to the government for follow-up. However, the ability of cross-sectoral impact assessments during an incident is something that needs to be further developed. The Corona Commission says that the government lacked a plan to deal with imports in the autumn of 2020. I agree that we were not well enough prepared at this point, although we have always had among Europe's strictest entry and quarantine rules. But we still have to review and learn from this point. The report of the Corona Commission has now been sent to the hearing. In addition, the Ministry of Justice and Defence sent letters to all departments asking for the status of follow-up to the learning points of the Corona Commission. Through this follow-up, we will use the report and feedback we receive to learn and strengthen preparedness further.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e662	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e667	In 2013, Erna Solberg called for a Prime Minister in charge of preparedness. In 2017, Erna Solberg said that the Right was the only party that took it seriously. What happens now after the serious report of the Corona Commission is that the Right must be responsible for the promises made to the voters. The Korona Commission found that the government had not taken care to update the contingency plan against pandemic since 2014. The country lacked intensive capacity and equipment. At the same time, the Government Parties have voted in favour of proposals for a new national plan for infectious diseases and pandemics, voted against proposals for a clearer division of responsibilities between the FHI and the Health Directorate and against proposals for a total preparedness Commission. Does the Council of State today, following the serious conclusions of the Commission, consider that it was right not to update the pandemic plan, and that it was right to vote against a total emergency Commission and proposals for a new pandemic infectious disease plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e676	Since the Minister of Health is in the Chamber and is also going to keep posts and answer lines, I think he is the right man to answer health-related questions. What I would like to answer is how we have secured preparedness in Norway since 2013. The fact that we've had it every year as one of our top priority tasks, makes us better equipped than ever to meet the events we know we can meet, but also the events that we don't know are coming. That's why basic preparedness is so very important, that we now have a basic preparedness that we've also been practicing. We've had many great exercises these years that have taught us how to practice systems, how to maintain critical societal functions, how to deal with unexpected crises. That's why the Corona Commission report is clear that when the incident occurred, we turned around and handled the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e683	The Corona Commission now points out that there have been no national civil or national health exercises where pandemic crisis management has been a major theme. The Minister of Justice is the chief in charge of preparedness, also the coordinating department of the pandemic. When Erna Solberg said we had a plan for pandemic, but not this, it was alarming. For several years, trade union directorates have had pandemics as one of the most likely events with major consequences. DSB's scenario showed that a pandemic could provide far more infected and more hospital facilities than we luckily had with covid-19, but that was not the pandemic the government had a plan for. Does this mean that the government had not prepared Norway for a pandemic as serious as it was actually warned against?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e690	No one has disputed that we have not practiced a large and comprehensive pandemic, a covid-19 pandemic, a pandemic with the measures that we had to implement. No one has disputed that. But what we've been clear about is that there have been great, important exercises. We had a big ICT exercise in 2016, we had Trident Javelin in 2017, we had Trident Juncture in 2018, and we had Digital 2020 – big exercises that are cross-sectoral, and that's the whole point. It is true that even though we have been practicing on other themes, the whole point is to put in place exercises that require the whole state apparatus to cooperate, to coordinate and to deal with critical situations. I think that some of the force has just been that when we got a situation that neither we nor any other country was prepared for, when we put in action actions that none of us or any other country was prepared for, we had systems that enabled us to press the big red button and deal with the consequences of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e695	I thank you for the answer, although that is not what I asked for. I want to move on to another possible learning point, which the Corona Commission does not point out to any extent, and that is that today's Prime Minister in 2013 said that a Prime Minister in charge of preparedness is needed. I have a question for follow-up. I agree with the words of opposition leader Erna Solberg. However, the main feature of Prime Minister Erna Solberg’s leadership of the Ministry of Justice, responsible for preparedness, is not stability and overall responsibility, but substitutions and ambiguity – eight ministers of justice, a so-called security element that came and went, the introduction and subsequent phasing-out of their own Minister of Emergency and Public Health. What has the government learned about the overall responsibility and enforcement of these eight Ministers of Justice and various Ministers of Preparedness and Public Health? Will the Council of State recommend any new government to govern in the same way as the Erna Solberg government has done?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e703	I think you should be careful to count the number of ministers to form a basis for comparison of how well the preparedness is. It unfortunately showed the red-green government to the full in 2013. That's not the number that matters, that's the job you do. And the job we've done every year since 2013 is to strengthen preparedness. We now have 3,500 more police officers than we had. We have the equipment to carry out exercises. We have new rescue helicopters, and we've reorganized the rescue services. We've opened up the National Emergency Response Centre. We've strengthened the PST, and we've strengthened the NSM. We're now introducing 16 new rescue helicopters, we've reorganized the service. We've started building a new fire and rescue school in Teldensund. Emergency grids are extended and put into service. Civil defence is strengthened. I could go on and on and on and on. There can be no doubt that every year we have strengthened preparedness in this country, precisely in the light of the experience we have had in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e712	Wednesday, last week during the Questionnaire, we were in these places. At the same time as we did, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs released new travel councils and stricter quarantine rules to vulnerable countries as it turns out that the Nordics travel a lot. So it went well over a year into the pandemic. I have a great deal of understanding that this has been difficult to deal with and that not all of the measures can be taken immediately, but we have had a big problem throughout the pandemic with the gross overrepresentation of the immigrant population. Factors have been explained that have proved to be wrong, but it may be shown that high levels of travel to the home countries of some immigrant groups may explain this. Then I wonder, what has the Minister of Justice done to identify how much of the over-representation of immigrants due to travel activities to the country of origin of immigrants?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e721	If the representative asks if we're leading statistics on the country of birth to travellers, we don't. But we're running statistics on most of the other things about travelers now, and what we've seen, and what all the graphs show is that we've had a much higher travel activity related to Easter holidays, Christmas holidays and winter holidays. That is why we tried to prevent it from being linked to the Passover. There is no doubt that residents of Norway, whether born in Norway or not, travel a lot. Nordics travel to holiday apartments in Spain; Polish-born people travel home to Poland. That is why we have now regularly introduced more stringent quarantine and testing rules. There is no aim in itself to prevent travel, but it is an objective to ensure that we prevent the spread of disease. I didn't fully understand the connection to last Wednesday. What we did was to introduce much more stringent quarantine rules related to travelers from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal. It was linked to the situation now, not last year, in the autumn, in those countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e730	My point is that maybe one should have seen at an earlier time that this travel business I mentioned may have been a major cause of high infection among parts of the immigrant population in Norway. Unfortunately, the immigrant population has been hit very hard, and it goes beyond society in several areas. Worst is it for the immigrant population, which is becoming much more seriously ill. We have to take this seriously, and then knowledge is very important. In today's evening post, a representative of the Somali environment says that information has to come from someone who trusts Somalis. It's going to be repeated a number of times by several. I think it's strange that we've got a society where parts of the population don't trust the authorities and need information in their own channels and languages. The question is whether the Minister of Emergency Notice sees society becoming more vulnerable if a larger part of the population does not follow advice and recommendations in the event of a crisis and will the government follow up the emergency problem that this entails?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e741	Of course, if the representative invites us to a debate on whether we should have a single set of travel rules for the immigrant population and one for other parts of the population, it is not a current issue. All people are treated equally, based on whether they live in Norway or not. That's the basis of our restrictions. We have separated the necessary from unnecessary travels simply to sweep out all unnecessary travels. There has been too much travel, especially associated with festivals. That's whether it's the North or the immigrant population, and we've had to tighten it up. The measures that worked last spring did not work in the autumn. This meant that we tightened up when it came to rules for quarantine hotels, testing and after that very strict restrictions for who has to come. Then DSB and IMDI have been commissioned – precisely because we see problems reaching parts of the population – to develop better practices that can be used in any crisis, in order to reach all parts of the population in a better way than we have now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e750	After a slightly more open start to this debate, the Minister of Justice and Defence falls back on track where everything was good, and nothing was wrong, and this government has done everything right. However, one of the main conclusions of the Corona Commission is that one was not well prepared, that there was too little coordination between the different sectors. In a way, the Minister of Justice and Security must also be willing to take over. Then I just have to ask: does the Minister for Defence think coordination is good enough, or does she agree with the Corona Commission that it has failed at that point? Does the Minister of Preparedness think that the intensive capacity was good enough for these types of pandemics, or should it have been better, as the opposition in Stortinget has also pointed out a number of times?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e757	I am using the opportunity to congratulate the representative today. There's more birthday celebrations today. If the representative has not heard that I repeatedly – both when we were here last Wednesday, and today – have said that we should learn, we should get better, and we can always get better, I think you just didn't want to listen. I started by saying that, and I ended my post by saying that. There are parts of the handling that we very quickly and very clearly said could have been better. Infectious protection equipment is a very good example of that. When it comes to coordination, I think I have a slightly more balanced view of it than the representative asks. I believe there was a great deal of coordination work. We already obtained reports a few days after the closure. We laid the groundwork for the government and the corona committee in the government to be able to discuss cross-sectoral issues. I also mean on that point that very much has improved, but it's not perfect, and we can get better.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e766	Thank you for your congratulations. I think both I and the Minister of Health can confirm that 4 May is a good day to have a birthday on. I'm going back to something I've mentioned with the Minister of Emergency Response in the past, namely the Total Emergency Commission. It says the Council of State to me in several cases is a good idea, but there's no time for that right now. Then there is reason to mention that the government parties have voted against that proposal up to several times, all since 2017. So it's very important that we soon get a comprehensive review of society's preparedness. It's been 20 years. The Willoch Committee was important. They pointed to major and important points related to the vulnerability of Norwegian society. However, I believe that the Corona Commission also points to the need for such a total emergency commission – not as an urgent task in the middle of a pandemic, but as a consequence and as a result of the report of the Corona Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e775	I was quoted as saying that it was a good idea. I guess that's not what I said; I said it could be. I am not against thinking that, and I can answer for the debate I was in at some point after I became Minister of Justice and Defence, where this was lifted by the Senter Party. What I've said is that right now we have to deal with a pandemic, and the same people who handle the pandemic, also serve the Corona Commission, and we have the Corona Commission, which is doing a lot of work. We've had different samples. They're set down to discuss the different consequences of the pandemic. We got a report last Friday, we've got several financial assessments, so we're getting new reports related to corona management. These don't work in a vacuum. They have to be served by someone, and those "some" are the same people who deal with the crisis, and who drive the social wheel in the departments and in our society as best they can at the normal pace. I have said that right now I believe the time for that debate is not right, but that we can come back to it after the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e784	We have had problems with democracy in this matter. For example, point 7 of the sample report states that the government did not ensure that they complied with the Basic Law and human rights, and the government would not send the quarantine hotel case to Stortinget, which was also a major problem. But I have another question, and there is one issue that is now more difficult to get into Norway. An example was a woman who traveled to Poland to her mother's tomb. Nav and the tax office say she lives in Norway — and she was rejected from Norway. Is the Minister of Justice absolutely sure that all these rules follow the human rights and the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e791	It is the goal of any crisis to follow as normal procedures as possible when drafting laws and regulations, and we see very well that at the beginning – because we had so little time, because we had to prevent infection, disease and death – we did not do a good enough job. And in my responsibility it was the Korona Act that was not sent to the hearing. That's where I think a whole bunch of people agreed that this was the way to do it. It was unanimously adopted. That's not the way we want to have it, and we've tried in time afterwards – it also says the Corona Commission – to follow as normal procedures as possible related to hearing, not as long hearings as we tend to have under normal conditions, but that everything should be heard, and that we should always make assessments relating to human rights and the Constitution. Of course, and it's a good idea to look at systems around this related to other crises that may arise. Those not registered in Norway are not allowed to come to Norway right now. I know it's hard for many. It's a debate we have, and we're looking at that basis, but this is to have a system that prevents import infection.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e799	Another thing: we have had problems with infection from other countries, for example. by opening up private companies to pick up people from other countries to work in Norway. It has increased infection. We in SV have been a little worried about this opening in 2020, that there was little control of the quarantine. Is the Minister of Justice absolutely sure that we are now controlling all the karan services, not only hotels at the Gardermoen, but also that private companies have good quarantine rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e804	I'm very pleased with the question, because it's stuck to the idea that it's the Norwegian industry that has brought mutant infection to the country, but it's not like that. That's how we shut down for the very most 12 March last year. Then we opened up to agriculture, and there was contact with Norwegian Industry at the beginning of June. So the infection was at its lowest. We opened up to the Norwegian industry on 1 July, and we opened up to everyone on 15 July. So it was a few weeks last year when the infection was at its lowest that we opened up to the Norwegian industry, which has now been blamed for a great deal. The image is much more complex. It is very much linked to the travel activities of people living in Norway, and related to holidays, holidays and leisure time. With regard to the situation now linked to employers, we have a system in place where, if you are not in a hotel, you should have accommodation approved in advance by the Labour Inspectorate. I think we've now hit this in a very good, very thorough way. But it's like now that the few come in, so right now there's no big problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e811	There are several similarities between the conclusions of the Korona Commission and the Gjørv Commission, although representatives from the Right have previously said that all points from Gjørv have been followed up. Steel Ulriksen, a researcher at the Defence College, said to the NRK: "I think there are a lot of similarities, especially this with a lack of preparation in relation to what has been announced." Øyunn Syrstad Højdal, an evaluation researcher at OsloMet, said to the NRK: ‘22. The July Commission highlighted both the challenges of planning and the lack of crisis exercises [[...]] The Korona Commission highlights a lack of overall responsibility, as an echo of the Gjørv Commission, and concludes that a sector-based emergency response system fails when no one takes responsibility for the whole. An honest debate requires that you admit that you are wrong to learn. Will the Minister of Justice now acknowledge that there are points from the Gjørv Commission that have not been corrected by the current government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e822	I am very surprised that the Workers' Party, by the representative Gahr Støre and now Henriksen, is so keen to compare the Gjørv Commission and the Korona Commission. And if the representative wants an honest debate, I want to quote two points from the Gjørv Commission: Point one: ‘The attack on the government quarter 22/7 could have been prevented by the effective implementation of the already adopted security measures.’ – Already adopted. Point two: ‘The ability of the authorities to protect people on the Outlying Islands has failed’. So preventing a pandemic, failing sick people, is not the headline of the Corona Commission. I believe that the two events have in common that they are very, very serious, but there are two completely different events, they are managed quite differently, and their emergency management is completely different. So the differences are larger than the equations. I believe that there are things to learn from the Corona Commission's report, but I also believe that we have followed up the Gjørv Commission. It has been notified to Stortinget, it was notified in the previous social security message, in 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e835	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e840	The Corona Commission notes that no Western country or the WHO had planned for as extensive and invasive measures as Norway was willing to take during this pandemic. We have learned that we were not well enough prepared for this. However, the national health preparedness plan and plan against serious diseases were important basic documents for our management. The government has also based its management on learning from other countries and professional advice from health authorities. We have to admit that not all decisions, many taken under great uncertainty and time pressure, have proved to be equally good. I therefore very much appreciate the Commission's recognition that flexibility, adaptability and action were important components of the government's management of this crisis. The Norwegian model, characterised by a high level of trust between the population and the authorities and among the majority of people, has provided high compliance with national and municipal measures. The national effort we invited to March 12 is an important success factor. But our social model would probably not only give the same result regardless of how we had handled the situation. We see countries around us that are similar to us and are based on the same social model, which are harder hit than we are by the pandemic in terms of life and health. Treatment activity in hospitals fell significantly during periods for planned activities, but also for immediate help and some other types of treatment. I note that the Commission points out that the reduction in planned activity and re-establishment of more normal activity levels was not well enough coordinated and that a national planning basis may be appropriate to avoid unnecessary reduction in treatment capacity. At the same time, I would like to stress that the government paid great attention to protecting emergency services, the offer to cancer patients, to children and to drug/psychiatric health, which I believe specialist health services under the conditions that were, were also successful. Many municipalities have had to reorganise businesses and redeploy staff for infection tracking and testing. Reduced daily activities and reduced provision of rehabilitation and training may have led to solitude and to a loss of physical and cognitive function. At the outset, we implemented largely national measures to avoid the flooding of hospitals. Some may therefore have felt that government authorities have concentrated on specialist health services. When we had the infection shut down, local municipal measures became more central where there was increased infection. Testing, isolation, tracking and quarantine, the TISK strategy, has been important to address local outbreaks. The municipalities have done a very good job here. The Commission recommends that the plans should include scaling up capacity and the need to describe closer cooperation and coordination between laboratories, hospitals and municipalities. The Commission also recommends that the IPD should further regulate this and point to the need for digital tools in the municipalities. The Government will follow up these recommendations. We didn't have enough infection protection equipment in stock as the pandemic led to the collapse of global supply lines while enormous growth in demand. We quickly established a purchasing system that was able to obtain infectious disease protection equipment from abroad and from Norwegian producers. The government has now built up a national stockpiles of infectious diseases equipment corresponding to six months of pandemic consumption, in addition to local and health establishments’ own stocks. We will propose a permanent arrangement in the state budget for 2022. During this round, the Commission does not make a complete assessment of the vaccine issues. Access to vaccines and the vaccination programme is essential for reopening society. As of today, approx. 30 pst. at least one dose was given by the adult population. And the availability of vaccines through the acquisition of the EU is increasing. Last Friday, the government decided, on the recommendation of the FHI, to extend the period between the first and second doses. If everything goes according to plan, that means that everyone over the age of 18 will have been offered the first dose in July. I would like to stress that it is not accidental that Norway appears to be getting better out of the pandemic than many other countries. Many skilled people in health care and in administration have worked extremely hard to treat sick people, trace infections, vaccinees and, not least, to draw up a basis for difficult decisions. I want to thank each and every one of them for their efforts so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e859	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e864	Now I have had the opportunity to congratulate the Council of State on the day, but with as many hours on watch as the Council of State has had in the last year, it is a pleasure to see that he still looks like a boy. It's a compliment I come from. [[Laughter]] In his statement to the Stortinget, the Prime Minister said that the government in the field of emergency work has too little challenged agreed truths about how pandemics should be handled in Norway. According to the Prime Minister, the government had planned for a pandemic, just not for the one we got. Then it is natural for me to ask the Minister of Health: Does the Council of State think that we were prepared for a pandemic in line with the government actually planned for?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e871	In line with the plans that were, we had done a lot with updating plans. Among other things, I have heard from the pulpit here that our plans were not up-to-date, as among others. after the experience of the ebola outbreak in 2015 and other experience. That's not right. We didn't have at least a contingency plan for infectious diseases that was very much updated based on those experiences. The coordination mechanism established by the government to coordinate the health sector with other sectors related to infectious diseases, the preparedness committee for infectious and biological events, was among others. based on experience. But what the Commission confirms, and I fully agree with, is that this plan, our exercises, etc. not considered that we were willing to use such extensive measures over such a long period of time to control a pandemic. It's a situation that I also point to in my article, and that we share with most other Western countries, and so far also the World Health Organization's own plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e876	It's good to hear that you've updated. The experience with ebola is also more special given that it is not as contagious as the situation we now have with covid-19. But it's natural to ask whether we should have had plans for a more serious pandemic. In the spillage notification of pandemic influenza, Meld. St. 16 for 2012–2013, SARS Coronavirus was described and used as an example of a much more severe pandemic. It said that the next serious pandemic does not need to be malignant influenza, but that a SARS coronary pandemic is not impossible to imagine. The answer that the Council of State gave to my previous question about not wanting to take action over so long – is it not more obvious to see if you had strong enough response to a more contagious pandemic, with the experience of SARS and Korona in other countries? It's that this disease is so contagious, which is the biggest difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e881	The contingency plans we have also take into account more serious diseases than a flu pandemic. What you don't take into account is what the Commission also describes as a paradigm shift. The representative is quite right, at the end of his post, that what describes as a paradigm shift on the part of the Commission is what we are willing to use to keep control of a pandemic. This is partly an instrument against which the established plan is warned. I myself have participated in international exercises on pandemic management together with colleagues. One of the things we're doing is not implementing, for example. travel restrictions, trade restrictions, etc., precisely because the international thinking in this area sees some of those measures as damaging more than they do. In the pandemic we've been through, we've learned that we need to think differently about these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e887	It's tempting to follow it up by thinking differently, for point number. 13 in the Commission summary is about import infection. The government lacked a plan to deal with the import infection, nor did it spend time with little infection to prepare for more cross-border traffic. Recently we saw in the evening post that one traveller had led to 700 infected with mutated virus. Today I want to ask the Council of State: we have had many discussions in this room about introducing mandatory testing in combination with quarantine. We know the harvest. That's the story. The government put it off. Does the Council of State today think that mandatory testing should have been started in combination with previous quarantines, with the experience we have, and that review of the Corona Commission?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e892	Yes, some of the experiences we have are just about the fact that many of the arrangements we had were too trust-based in the situation that had evolved. Although Norway has had stricter restrictions than most other countries, it has been. But this was also a question there, for example. introducing mandatory tests at the border was something that the leader of the Workers' Party had the right spinal cord reflex in August, that this is a very intrusive measure that is not normally used in healthcare. It was during the party leader's debate in Arendalsuka's question that came up. This is also about capacity. After all, the approval of the rapid tests was a key prerequisite for the introduction of testing at the border. That was some of the concerns. It was also actually the will to close as many borders as we had to close. But the government introduced these measures on an ongoing basis as we received professional recommendations. I think it would be quite demanding for other governments too to ignore professional advice in this area, with as much negative consequences as it has for both the population and business. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e899	The President reminds us of the speaking time, which is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e904	Let me first congratulate you on the great day of the Minister of Health. Import infection has been a major issue – and important also for the Progress Party – for a long time. Therefore, it was very enjoyable to set up quarantine hotels, and especially for those without a fixed stay in Norway. In general, the measures taken should have confidence and make sense to the population. So it's -- there's been a lot of talk about -- that students who have a foreign residence, but have a home in Norway, can have quarantine at home. If an older couple have stayed abroad for a longer period, which can certainly be said to be unnecessary, come home to Norway again and have permanent residence in Norway, they cannot have quarantined in the home. For many, it may seem quite illogical. The question then arises: Is there any expert advice on infectious diseases that discriminates in terms of where you can have your quarantine?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e911	This is a question which initially belongs to the Minister of Justice, but I can nevertheless try to answer. The distinction made by the representative here is a distinction between unnecessary and necessary travel. If you're a student who's studied abroad and, to put it that way, has your girl or boy room standing with your parents, going home isn't an unnecessary journey, it's something that needs to be done. But an older couple who have traveled to the South on vacation when the government says that this is an unnecessary journey and warns against it, have broken one of the government's important advice. Then we believe that it is proportionate to say that someone has to take quarantine at the quarantine hotel. That's what gives the best protection. Basically, if all travellers had been to quarantine hotels, it would have given them the best protection, but the challenge is that one could question whether it would be right for everyone who has to make the necessary travels. That's the kind of balance the government has to do all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e916	The Minister of Health is talking about infectious medicine advice. That's why I choose to continue on that track. At a quarantine hotel, you meet many other people. You can walk around freely, you can go out, you really don't have any control over whether you go to the store or anything. But if there's no infectious medicine advice, isn't it better to say, as I hear the Minister of Health do, that it's an unnecessary journey, so is it better to be at a quarantine hotel? Isn't it better to say it then, that it's really about that we don't want you to travel, and it doesn't have anything to do with infectious medicine at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e921	But these two things are very closely related. First of all, the advice not to make an unnecessary journey is an intellectually justified one, precisely because we want to significantly reduce the number of people travelling. That's what we've done. The second is that when one comes home, it is very important that one follows the trust-based arrangements for those who are on the necessary journey and that is, have quarantines at home. But we see and experience that it gives the best control to have the quarantine at the hotel. It is absolutely right that we have not police officers outside every hotel room, but basically the overall experience is that there is in total much better control over the enforcement of the quarantine for those who are at the quarantine hotel than for those who have quarantine at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e926	The municipalities have been given far greater tasks than they could have been ordered to do, says the Commission. The government's press conference was for a long time the only information source for municipalities about what to do. Local authorities did not receive the support necessary to implement TISK. The government paid the most attention to hospitals in the distribution of infectious disease protection equipment. In 2019, the government party voted down our proposal for a plan for the protection of the municipalities. The question is whether the Council of State takes self-criticism that they have not been sufficiently aware of and have not had a policy to support their emergency work, and whether they want to learn from it, so that the local health service's emergency responsibilities are strengthened, including the situation of local authorities and infectious agents.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e931	I believe that there have been important feedback in the Corona Commission's report in this area as well. As the Commission points out, some of these issues have also been addressed by the government in the course of dealing with the pandemic, for example: the communication with the municipalities and the infectious diseases supervisors in the municipalities, which we got when we got a very clear feedback after the closure on 3 January that they felt that the communication was not working well enough. Then we involved the Lege Association. We involved the doctors who expressed this, and established new routines as a result of it. We have had a lot of attention to the challenges faced by the infectious diseases supervisors in the municipalities, and the fact that very many municipalities have very small job rates in that type of role, and that it has been an extreme workload for these people to deal with a pandemic over such a long time. That's why we asked the directorate to work especially on this early autumn 2020. There, of course, we depend on the follow-up in each municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e936	In particular, you have to write chronicles in the opinion of the NRK to get good information when the country is in the midst of a health crisis. That's what I have to say. There has been some discussion about the government's prohibition of another pandemic and not the influenza pandemic that the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, DSB, has in its crisis scenario. In that crisis scenario, it says that there is a rather serious situation, too, with an enormous number of seriously ill, many intensive patients and up to 8 000 dead. Some of the measures are the same if there is a pandemic. One must have capacity in the healthcare system. One must have intensive preparedness. One must have a standby in the municipalities. So the question is, which is a little similar to what Ingvild Kjerkol asked: Was the government banned from a pandemic as described in DSB's 2019 crisis scenario?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e943	We planned that, and some of what we did in preparation for the infection to come to Norway, was that both the municipalities and hospitals went through their existing plans and updated them. The governor was responsible for checking that the municipalities’ plans were up-to-date. There were a smaller number of municipalities that did not have up-to-date plans. They were then updated before getting infected with Norway. We had plans to scale up the capacity in hospitals, etc., which was updated and implemented when it was needed. What is the Commission's point is that some of the instruments we have been willing to use elsewhere in society to control the spread of infection and to avoid overburdening health services have been much larger and much longer than our plans, and insofar as the plans of the World Health Organisation and other countries have also taken into account. That's what's described as a paradigm shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e951	Congratulations on the day! We need to talk about the infectious disease code. For the purposes of point (b), the following definitions shall apply: 11 tells the Commission that we need to review the infectious disease law. SV made a proposal for powers under the IPD Act and got a majority in favour of a point, and that was that we should have a comprehensive revision of the IPD Act. But the government parties voted against. That is why I have to ask the Minister of Health: does the Minister of Health agree with the SV proposal, and does the Minister of Health agree with the Commission that we need to review and revise the infectious diseases law?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e958	It's quite natural to review the IPD after we've been through an incident that's now. It was clearly stated by the parties to the Government in the matter to which the representative refers. But what government parties do is that they often vote against proposals that are described in major debates such as opening doors. Then it is used again by the opposition as proof that the government parties are against something that they are against, but that they are against because they refer to the government already working on it. This is part of the game that's going on in Stortinget. It may not be the most beautiful game going on, but it has always been under changing governments. That's what's behind this. It is quite natural and natural to revise the IPD after this. But what I have not agreed with is their proposal to change the IPD in the run-up to the pandemic and to change the framework conditions for the management of a national crisis along the way. I am pleased that the majority of people have agreed with the government that it has not been a sensible proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e965	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e972	We need an honest debate on preparedness in Norway. The government and the Right must also acknowledge the mistakes that have been made. The right went to the choice on standby twice. Some right-wing representatives also said that Erna Solberg's personal characteristics would make a difference. Nevertheless, in the last eight years, we have examples that the follow-up has not been good enough. The Corona Commission identifies deficiencies in the preparedness ahead of a pandemic. The Commission revealed that the government had not made provision for updating the contingency plan for pandemic since 2014. The country lacked intensive capacity and equipment, although the government knew that there could be a problem. Nor did the Prime Minister take the initiative to coordinate the actors at the outset, according to the Commission. In the past, the government has repeatedly received criticism from the National Audit Office for lack of object protection. We saw a failed safety culture in the Bergen Engines bag. And the Labour Party believes that there is a lack of commitment to preparedness near people, i.e. local preparedness in the municipalities. Eight years after the conclusions of the Gjørv Commission, there are still points that have not been corrected. The Corona Commission points to shortcomings in coordination and cooperation, exercises, planning and overall responsibility. Good preparedness also requires that you admit errors, in order to learn. I unfortunately have the impression that the government is more concerned with being indignant than showing the will to humility. The representative Sylvi Listhaug said earlier in his post that it was in place with a little more humble attitude. The government deserves critical searchlights, but it also deserves the emergency responsibility of the Erna Solberg party. The Progress Party was responsible for preparedness for seven years, from October 2013 to January 2020. During that period, the Progress Party had ten state councils in charge of preparedness – seven ministers of justice, two ministers of social security and preparedness and one minister of public health. It is not only a sign of Erna Solberg's leadership by the Ministry of Justice, but also a judgment on the work of the Advancement Party. Nevertheless, the representative, Mr Listhaug, did not mention the time before 12 March 2020 in a single word. She did not mention her own responsibilities either. That responsibility cannot be ignored by Listhaug. The Corona Commission's criticism of serious failure before the pandemic also affects to the greatest extent the Progress Party in addition to Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e991	The Koronakrisa has a major impact on the Norwegian economy and is a framework for all industries and sectors throughout the country, including the municipal sector. The report shows that there have been considerable differences between municipalities in terms of the burden of infectious diseases. Several small municipalities have seen the need for additional municipal resources under the pandemic and have solved this differently, including: through inter-municipal cooperation. I want to give tribute to the local authorities' management, even if more municipalities, such as the local authorities. Both Oslo and Drammen have had challenges to reach their citizens with good information. Early and good information is central to the authorities and is fundamental to the ability of local authorities to take responsibility for the protection of infectious diseases and to maintain their trust in citizens, but there is also a need for local authorities to manage and disseminate them. Government administrators have also played an important role in informing and giving good advice to municipalities. In addition, they bring important information about the conditions in the municipalities back to central authorities. Every day we see municipalities that in an exemplary way contribute to fighting the pandemic. Throughout the Korona crisis, the government has been very clear that they want to set up municipalities, and they have done so through several financial measures. The municipal sector received more than 19 billion in 2020. in transfers and financial measures to be financially equipped to address the challenges of covid-19. Of this, a total of 18 billion. kr the licenses which were grounded in the coronary apathy. In 2021, the municipal sector was awarded nearly 16 billion crownamides. kr. This includes almost 2 billion. kr given as a separate compensation for the tax failure of municipalities in 2020. The low wage and price growth has also contributed to strengthening the municipal economy, so that they can manage the pandemic in a good way. These are the means they get to keep, although the price growth was significantly lower than expected when we adopted the 2020 budget here in the Stortinget. The government and the Storting have thus made it possible for municipalities to handle the pandemic in a good way, while at the same time they have been able to maintain service production as well as possible and, of course, to ensure that the pandemic is also added to the municipal sector. Of course, it is difficult to estimate the exact impact of the outbreak on municipalities. The government has set up a working group to monitor the economic impact of the coronary crisis on municipalities together with KS. This working group shall work until August 2021. Then it is also worth mentioning that the state and KS are some that the compensation from the state for 2020 is good according to the municipal sector’s additional costs and minor revenues resulting from the coronary crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1012	We're on our way out of the pandemic, but we're in no way done with either the pandemic or the consequences it has for society. This first interim report from the Commission shows that we can learn a lot to ensure that we are better prepared next time an unexpected situation or crisis strikes the country. After a year of pandemic, there is one thing I think is very much left in society, namely the trust we have, both in each other and in the authorities. It has been crucial for us to conclude on the strict measures put in place by the authorities. Anyway, there are some learning points we have to take with us in the work on. When we look back at the first few weeks, with the shut-down and the lack of infection protection equipment, we have to admit that we could be better prepared. In the spring of 2020 there was a lack of equipment, both in the specialist health service and in the municipalities. Although we eventually succeeded in getting good and enough equipment, this was a major challenge for many at first, and that is what we are doing, among other things. need to ensure better in the future. In the last year, many have been alone – more alone than ever. Others have never had that much time for their family. For some, this has been a good thing, and something they want to keep, for others, you feel that you are overtime, given that the measures need to be facilitated. The safest thing we know after a year of measures to varying degrees is that they go wrong. The pandemic is skewed, the measures to control it are also skewed, and the consequences in retrospect will therefore also be distorted. It is too early to draw the final conclusions. But we already have some important learning points that we need to make sure that we are followed up and that we are arming our common readiness. It's important. At the same time, much remains to be learned, and I agree with the honourable Member that this interim report can also be a textbook. We've got 63 learning points that, provided they're followed up, can make us better rusted in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1027	I would like to start by saying that the government has done very well along the way in this pandemic. Our job is right enough to point to what can be done better, and be better prepared for the next time, but there has been an impressive effort by the government, and that says respect for it. It's in a crisis we'll see what really lives in a society, and in Norwegian society it lives very well. There's a lot of trust, and there's a lot of good spirit in the population. But there's one thing I've tried to record a number of times, and that has proved to be important to record. The overrepresentation of infection among the immigrant population can be said to have led the pandemic in Norway for periods. There has been a major problem that — especially at the beginning — has been a major fear of contact to address. The Commission responds little to what could and should have been done differently in this field, other than better and more targeted information. I find it hard to imagine that such a large part of the population has not come to realize that we are in the middle of a pandemic, and we do not get basic information, no matter what channels you follow. It turns out that there may be far more and quite different reasons for this overrepresentation than for what has been pointed out. The rules for entry and quarantine have been aimed for a long time at discriminating on unnecessary and unnecessary journeys, despite the fact that the virus does not distinguish between unnecessary and unnecessary journeys. It is a paradox that for a long time it has been legal to go to a funeral with several hundred participants in Pakistan, an event that would have been illegal in Norway. It's considered a necessary journey, and you don't have the quarantine. But if you travel by car to the cabin say in Sweden without meeting a human being, you have to quarantine. In that case, the legislation is not targeted where the risk is greatest. Here, I think the government needs to make an effort to identify what went wrong, and what should be done better in the future. We have had representatives from the government who at an early stage when we took this up, said that we should not point to immigrants, and that immigrants were going to be afraid to test themselves if the Progress Party talked about infection among immigrants. Well, after that many more have talked about the same thing, and never before have so many immigrants tested themselves. It's positive. But we have to start setting the same requirements and the same expectations for the entire population. Then I think we'll succeed better.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1042	I'll start with two quotes from the report: «The government has not taken into account in the preparedness process how risks in one sector depend on the risks in other sectors.» ‘An emergency response system based on the assessment by each sector of its own risk and vulnerability fails when no one has taken responsibility for assessing the sum of the impacts on society as a whole.’;» One might ask: Is this because of or despite seven emergency ministers and an emergency element in the Prime Minister's office? For already in Notify. St. 16 for 2012 – 2013, Prepared for Pandemic Influenza, which was dealt with in the Stortinget in May 2013, mentions activity restrictions that authorities could encourage or impose on the population to follow, and that there would be permitations. Following the adoption by the Solberg Government of a new pandemic plan in 2014. New crisis scenarios came in 2019, which showed a significantly more demanding risk picture of a pandemic. Some scenarios showed an even more demanding situation than what we have today. What, then, were the government’s plans for workers who would be affected? The plan, if it was a plan, was made clear to the Stortinget in March 2020. It was to facilitate mass permits and to transfer costs to workers by cutting the employer’s period from 15 to 2 days. In a number of crisis packages, the Stortinget pressured the government to invest more heavily in financial measures for workers and businesses. Time and again, the government has implemented invasive disease control measures quickly, without having a clear plan for what can be done for those who are severely affected by the measures. Measures have been closed, new ones have been created, some have been retrospectively, and others have been absent. A lot has been unpredictable. When the government closed the borders at the end of January, they had for almost a year – a year! – be aware that closed borders could become a necessity. Nevertheless, the government had no response to those who commuted across the border, who went without pay, who went many months without knowing what the scheme should be, and knew of a great uncertainty about what would happen. Not until 12 March, exactly one year after the crisis hit, did the government come up with proposals for solutions to a problem that could have arisen for a long time. It is simply incomprehensible that there has been so little preparation for action in situations that were known to arise. The representative of Stensland said that the main reason why things had gone well is the people. I actually agree with that. If you add everyone who's been working in health care, in Nav, in school, in clean-up and in transport, I think we're at some of the things that are at the heart of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1069	It is vital to have thorough commissions after crises, and it is equally important to actually follow up and recognise the points that the Commission points out. Today, we have seen that the government with the Prime Minister in the front is doing something impressive, and that's good. Then I have to say that some of the analyses and debates after the Commission's report was presented have been a little unsound – to put it mildly. A favorite that we like, among other things, has heard from the Workers' Party today, has been that the government has failed on standby. It's grossly unfurnished, there's not only preparedness, there's terrorism preparedness, military preparedness, natural disaster preparedness, disaster preparedness, food and supply preparedness, cyber preparedness, nuclear preparedness, pandemic preparedness. If I had listed all the reforms, all the investments, all the strengths, all the measures in these different fields, I would have been here this evening. The main summary is that basic preparedness has worked. Another repetition we've heard has been that we should have a plan, we should have a plan for a longer pandemic, etc. I think it's very postponing time just to throw out a claim that it's too bad. The control question must then be: too bad in relation to what? There is no other country in the world that has had plans that would work, and if we had such a plan, it would most likely be based on a different knowledge than what has proved to be the right knowledge. But at least one thing is certain – whether you're planning, against plans, have or don't have plans – and that's that no plans, civil or military, survive the meeting with reality. What matters when the crisis strikes is leadership, it's action, it's judgment, and it's endurance to stand through the crisis. We've been so lucky to have that in Norway. We have one of the world's best pandemic managements. Right across the border to Sweden, many people had pleaded to get the same good pandemic preparedness that we've had. This is evidence of the incredible forces we have in this country, from experts and business leaders – and not least millions of Northmen who make an effort when needed. Then, in fact, pandemic management has a political dimension. Is it self-esteem to say that those who handled this pandemic for us were capable politicians, while some politicians might have handled this badly? No, it's not self-esteem, it's reality. But that doesn't mean that it's just the government that's going to run off the farm with all the honor. The opposition should also be very grateful for the efforts and willingness to cooperate as they showed, especially at the beginning of the pandemic. It was Norway at its best. Now, when we're going to settle the bill and analytically go to work to find out what we're going to do to make Norway stronger and better rusted in the future, we need to keep some of that spirit from spring 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1082	In the light of the last speeches, I think there is reason to stress the role of the Stortinget both last March and really until now when it was both to adjust, correct and not least to be a contributor to the various contingency arrangements that have been implemented. I would like to draw a little attention to the economic measures that have been taken, because it is also an important part of the preparedness. In fact, part of the mandate of the Corona Commission is to assess both the economic and the social consequences of the pandemic and the measures taken to protect it. There's no doubt, what's stated in the report, is that big, economic compensation was right. However, they have not been thoroughly assessed in the Commission report that has been submitted, and we believe that this is absolutely essential. There is a clear defect in the report that is now available. The feedback received by the Commission draws a picture of a government that has not been able to see in a context enough to address the protection measures and financial measures. These measures should go hand in hand after several rounds and several Stortinget opinions. Instead, we have seen in far too many cases that disease prevention measures have come without any government strategy on how to follow up the measures with financial support and schemes that get businesses and jobs through the crisis. It has made measures either too late or in many cases not at all. In addition, it is very alarming that after the first wave of infection, the government removed schemes without a plan for the restoration of these schemes. Perhaps the saddest and most serious case was when last year the government closed the compensation scheme without any plan to put the scheme back in place if it had to. The consequence was that the government had to spend many months creating a technical solution for business before being able to get support again. This is, of course, evidence that the preparedness and management of the situation has been poor and demanding. In addition, I hope that the financial measures that have been implemented will be carefully evaluated, either directly by the Corona Commission or by reducing the number of work committees that actually assess this thoroughly and analyse the way billions have taken and how they have worked. Our opinion is that the large amount of money in the compensation scheme does not meet those who actually now may have the greatest wear and tear. Small and medium-sized enterprises employ and secure very many people. Then we have arrangements that don't make because the general arrangements of the government are overwhelming. It is then important to get good judgement and analysis on how to take action better at the next crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1095	We must not forget that the Corona Commission has concluded that the overall management of the authorities has been good. It points out that the authorities have taken action and changed their behaviour. Contrary to what Mr Henriksen said in his speech, the government has shown good leadership. It's the results that count. We see it in the number of people infected, the number of hospital inmates and the number of deaths – this is something a lot of countries would want. So to Henriksen, to which I referred, it might be that the proof is in the pudding, as it says. I understand the intention to talk leadership down, but it's actually the results that are here. I want to address item 15 in the report. It's about the situation of children and young people during the pandemic. The Commission rightly points out that children and young people have been hit hard. They also write that it is too early to draw the long-term conclusions on the coronary apathy, in view of the measures taken to protect infection and what it will lead to. Therefore, it is very important to follow developments. However, during the pandemic, the government has always given priority to children and young people, and it has been tightened up in other areas, with a view to minimising the burden of action. Voluntary organisations have received grants regardless of the level of activity, so that they can be able to get started quickly when the measures for the protection of infection are facilitated. Voluntary and sport compensation schemes have paid more than 2 billion. kr for activities cancelled in 2020, just to keep organisations going. In addition, additional appropriations have been made available to children’s and young people’s organisations. Auxiliaries have been provided with funds. All this must be to ensure that they are up and running when the measures for the protection of infection can once and for all be fully facilitated. Many students have lost a lot of time in school this school year. In the January crisis package, the government presented an action package of 500 million. SEK for extended summer school offers with a course for children and young people in primary school. I can be glad that in my home municipality, Drammen, 9.4 million have actually been allocated. NOK to this. So the government has given priority to children and young people. I was pleased that, in the Prime Minister's presentation to the Storting on the Corona Commission's report, further measures to meet vulnerable children and the needs of young people will be identified in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1109	The local doctor in Nordre Follo, where I live, has said in several respects that older people have had the greatest burden of disease, while younger people have had the greatest burden of action. That's exactly summed up. Now, fortunately, the vaccination is well in progress for the elderly. Hospital residents have been pre-vaccinated and the oldest home residents have received at least one vaccine dose. That means that the burden on the elderly is lower. However, the burden of action for the younger is still very high in many places. There's still a red level in the schools at my home. But the worst has been here in Oslo. Children and young people here have lived with the most stringent measures over the longest period of time. The Corona Commission notes that children and young people can bear the consequences of the closure beyond their lifetime. Home and digital education can provide less motivation and poorer conditions for learning. This can lead to non-response and have lasting consequences for job opportunities later in life. And maybe we've become a little too familiar with the concept of home school? The Danish call it emergency school, and that might be a better term? Because it's not like home school is the same thing as normal school, just that it happens at home. Not least for students who have received training through a screen in the last year. A week ago, the disappointing results of the student health and well-being survey came. Even before the pandemic, the proportion of students reporting serious psychiatric disorders rose from 18 p.p. in 2010 to 32 pst. in 2018. Now this development has accelerated further, and half of the students report symptoms of severe mental health disorders. It's dramatic. One in four says they've considered taking their own life. It needs more than one more vaccine to reverse this. Vulnerable children and young people have been a recurring theme under the pandemic. Several important services fell completely or partly away in the spring of 2020, which may have led to increased levels of care failure, violence and abuse. The Commission points out that the figures are uncertain. But so is the future. We have to be prepared that many people need follow-up even after the pandemic seems to be over. Because although vaccination represents the light at the end of the tunnel, the pandemic is not over when the last needlestick is inserted. We have to prepare for the pandemic after the pandemic. I was on a digital visit to Rome's crisis centre a few weeks ago. Their experience is that crises like to have a aftermath that lasts for a few years. Many of us will quickly return to life. For others it takes longer. Although many unemployed people will return to work when the activity is normalised, there is a risk that some will be permanently out of the labour market. Reduced social contact and less physical activity can cause permanent adverse health effects. Our promise to you is that we should set up as long as it takes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1126	When a crisis strikes, good leadership is important, and flexibility is extremely important. It's part of the whole entity of a crisis that we can't predict and plan all the details. Much can change from day to day or from hour to hour. Then it's about being awake, seeing what happens, being willing to change the strategy, focusing on new challenges and using the resources you have, different from the day before. A serious crisis in a country is a sort of exam in flexibility because it is responsible. The pandemic that still characterizes us became such an exam for our government. And they've passed the test, better than most governments in the world. This is also the conclusion of the Corona Commission: if we look at the overall management of the authorities, it has been good. We have lower mortality rates than most other countries, and the government, the Directorate of Health and the Institute of Public Health have jointly communicated well with the Norwegian population. Yes, they've really been on and visible. The vast majority of our society have understood the seriousness of the situation and have followed the guidelines and recommendations that have come. And of course, when we look back at what has happened since March last year, something could have been done better. We didn't have enough infective equipment when the pandemic hit. It was a very demanding situation. But we have learned from this weakness in readiness. We have built up a preparedness stock for infectious agents, and the Health Directorate is now investigating how to organise a future permanent solution for preparedness stores. And even if we lacked the necessary equipment in 2020, the Corona Commission points out that the government showed flexibility and action to provide infectious agents. According to the Commission, the pandemic we are now experiencing is a paradigm shift. We have used infectious measures to an extent and for as long as no one had imagined or planned. Good crisis management is flexible. It's about dealing with the unknown, making decisions, getting new information, reconsidering and making a new decision. This flexibility has shown our government in the difficult time and the challenge we are facing, and I and many of us want to thank you for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1139	I'm worried. We have a mental health crisis. The coronary apathy has led to a doubling of anxiety symptoms and a tripling of depressive symptoms in the population, says UiO. More struggling with loneliness and mental distress. According to the FHI, young and single residents work the most, in addition to those living in the cities, who have had many interventional measures. The worst statistics are the number of referrals to mental health protection for children and young people. From October 2019 to October 2020 it has increased by 13.2 pst. But the new mental health report shows that it has increased even more since the fall of 2020. Mental Health has provided a report on users of mental health protection. Seven out of ten say it's getting worse. Several tell about more symptoms, more intoxication, suicidal thoughts and triggering trauma experience. During the pandemic, showing research from Fosse in 2020, has 54 pst. patients experienced interruptions or exposure to health care. It's done a lot of damage. I hope these numbers sink in. SV requested a mental health crisis package from August 2020. We were all alone. We got a majority for some crumbs to strengthen mental health protection in winter. Now we need a mental health crisis package. The government has received a report on mental health with many important and good suggestions. An important measure is lowthreshold services across the country. It suggested SV in the budget, but it did not get a majority. Now I expect the government to follow up and promote proposals with money on the table. This crisis should be the starting point for finally building up mental health protection, which has been damaged during this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1154	It is serious what the Commission writes about the government's lack of control, both in advance of and now in the pandemic outbreak itself. In its report, the Commission describes inter alia: at: ‘The authorities knew that a pandemic was the most likely national crisis and would have the most negative consequences. Nevertheless, they were not prepared when the large and severe covid-19 pandemic came." And then they keep on writing: ‘The communities and society in general have therefore not had the opportunity to prepare for the culling and long-term suppression of infection.’ The Commission says the government knew that it was very likely that it would be difficult to obtain infectious equipment, but had not, however, provided for the construction of emergency storage facilities. In the spring of 2020 there was a major shortage of equipment, especially in the municipal health service. The Commission continues to establish that it is a major strength that municipalities have a high level of infectious disease responsibility. The Commission then states that the government has been too late to inform and involve the municipalities in decisions, while the government has at the same time made major demands on the municipalities, and that the government should better facilitate the municipalities to meet the requirements of the government. This is serious criticism. Thus, the government, in its inadequate management, has put society and the municipalities in a much more difficult situation than necessary. The government was not prepared. The government worked on other things. They didn't focus on preparedness, they didn't focus on preparing us for what was the most likely national crisis. They put the entire first line service out in the municipalities in a much more difficult situation than had been necessary. The Prime Minister mentions the criticism as derisory, the Prime Minister believes the government has done a brilliant job, and the Prime Minister believes that there are only some beauty flaws in the government's management of the pandemic. It's dangerous when people with great power and influence don't have the ability to take on criticism. It is dangerous when the Prime Minister and the government try to circumvent criticism that is both factual and well-proposed and documented. Then we hear here in the hall that the government is going to take learning, but the first reaction to the government and the prime minister was something different. That there are difficult things and unknown factors, now get to be so, but to dismiss the criticism as beauty flaws and de minimis, becomes too simple. It's outright irresponsible. Now we need the government to clarify how to enable municipalities to deal with the aftermath of the pandemic, with challenges in care, psychiatry, health and school as some examples. The municipalities deserve clear answers. The municipalities deserve long-termity in this. The government and the Prime Minister must answer that quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1176	That society has been at a difficult time since March last year – yes, there is little doubt about it. At the same time, we are privileged in Norway, where we have so far managed the situation we are in, and the consequences of, better than most other countries in the world. But just as fully: it's important that we are careful and follow this closely, especially how our young, hopeful have it in this particular time. As our health minister correctly reminded us about early in the pandemic: Childhood and youth are here now, not later. That's why the government has been giving priority to children and young people all this time, and it's been absolutely right and not least very important. Fortunately, studies indicate that for the vast majority of students, working conditions in the home have been relatively good, but many students have had lower learning outcomes than usual, especially those with decisions on special education and students with special Norwegian education — so fewer hours have been arranged than would be desired. I want to take this opportunity to thank everyone in the growing-up sector who has been under the pandemic so that our kids have been able to experience as normal a school day as possible. In the future, we need to do our utmost to get all students back to lost learning. It hasn't been on money. So far, many billions more have been allocated to municipalities in order to be better able to follow up our kids, strengthen the students' team and contribute to a close and good follow-up of everyone in school – among others. 300 million. SEK to follow-up students for lost progress, 500 million. SEK for new and extended summer school offers and SEK 200 million. kr to extra digital aids, to mention something. In view of this, then, there is no time to lower the requirements of the teacher’s depression, to eliminate admission requirements for teacher training, to report Norway out of studies and to reduce knowledge of the state of the school, to talk about the main thing first and to introduce a trust reform in the school, and to direct the teaching of teachers with physical activity, or to channel resources into school food rather than bet on several teachers with depression. Still, there is this knowledge vision we're facing on the red-green side into a big election game where the battle will be over what kind of school our kids deserve to meet after the pandemic. In the right, focusing on knowledge about school and school, on several teachers with depression and on targeted efforts to ensure basic skills early in school will be central. We have to help more children experience mastering in school every day that comes, because it does something about self-esteem, it does something about self-esteem and how children's backpacks are filled to meet new challenges later in life. It seems that the left-hand side has completely forgotten when they overwhelm each other in anything other than a knowledge effort in school policy. There's also no good way to meet school every day after the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1189	The aim of all crisis management is to control the crisis and to protect its citizens. In the coronary apathy, Norway has lower rates of infection and fewer deaths compared to countries with which it is natural to compare. The government has largely succeeded in handling, although the report of the Corona Commission points to important learning points. I miss something essential in this debate. It's about what characterizes decisions in a crisis. The crisis is a situation of great uncertainty, the assumptions often change in a short time, and the time to think, to consult and assess and accept decisions is less in a crisis. When it comes to planning, it's like in a crisis that whatever it's planned for, you're forced to deviate from the plan in the face of reality. That's the side up and down with research on. Designing a proper plan for all events is completely impossible, and crisis plans are rarely the center of a crisis management when it really is. According to studies, plans have little or no significance – i.e. little or no significance – for an effective response to crises. Researchers say there is a fundamental contrast between planning and decision-making in crises. Planning requires knowing what will happen, which is completely impossible in crises. In contrast, in crises improvisation and flexibility are required — more than paper plans. The opposition's criticism of the plan does not at all fit this perspective. The government has shown great ability to highlight precisely the experts in crisis as important: to act flexibly, to have the ability to improvise – and to change course when necessary. They have been effective, and the strategy chosen has saved many lives. That being said, the report of the Korona Commission comes with legitimate criticism, which the government has taken up and is clear that they will learn from. But we must not forget the main conclusion of the report, which says that the handling has been essentially good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1202	The representative of Greece called the Commission's report a textbook, and that is certainly true. It's a lot of work that's done. Now I'm not going to go into the learning points in this report. I think they're well prepared by the government's representatives here today, and I don't see much of the indignation that the representative Henriksen refers to, and records that where his party leader talks about the government's attendance, his party traps continue to talk about indignification, defamation and danger. I'm going to sacrifice a few words on the report itself and look at it as a kind of pedagogical text, with reference to the textbook point. It is not because I think it is fruitful to criticize the messenger, but because I believe there are two points of importance which are missing in the report and which have a certain significance for this debate. The report is heavy and good at the legal science. Professors Holmøyvik and Graver have got a good place and have put large footprints after themselves in the report. Similarly, I think it is bad in the comparative perspective. This means the political perspective, the reference to other countries and how they have dealt with the situation. The contrast to the Danish Korona report is particularly striking. For where the Norwegian report almost does not show any references to the handling of other countries, the Danish has a separate chapter on the handling of neighbouring countries and a 40-page note on both the German, Swedish and Norwegian situation and the handling of the government in these countries. So in the case of communication, the government's handling of a 10-12 page is sacrificed. There is not much in a report on 455 pages, and there is almost no empirical evidence of communication. It is descriptive and not analytical, and the comparative perspective is also lacking there, both historically and geographically. This has resulted in a lot of vision and self-evident statements without basic information analysis, despite the fact that the pandemic has been a significant communication crisis. I am sorry to have to say this, but in communication this is not enough. These two points I am sorry that the Commission report is not better, because it is precisely in the comparative perspective that Norway's handling can be judged best, and I hope that the Commission in its subsequent work is clearer in these two fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1217	We are discussing and debating the report of the Corona Commission, and we are going to learn, we are going to correct, we are going to renew, and we are going to try to be prepared for the unmistakable. There's a lot of words about after class, and I found some of H.C. Andersen: That's how the criticism was, and it's always so wise – afterwards. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for a good account of the Korona Commission's report and its follow-up by the government. There is no doubt that we have had a reliable and effective government that has managed to balance a number of considerations through a historically demanding time. Today, we have no experience similar to this. As just the report makes clear, dealing with a pandemic is not an exact science. It is an ongoing process that requires rapid decisions and makes enormous demands for coordination and precision. Pandemics know no borders. Therefore, what we do in Norway is not sufficient. We need to cooperate with other countries in order to defeat this very one. We're not through the pandemic, but we know the light, and last week the New York Times had a longer report on the EU vaccine strategy. As we could read in the case on 28 April, the EU has secured 1.8 billion. new doses of Pfizer vaccine. All of this was ensured by the direct involvement of the EU's top management in the negotiations. The only thing that can control the pandemic in the long term is flock immunity through vaccination. In Norway, we are just getting our vaccines through agreements with the EU, the so-called EU track. There's every reason to thank you for this. It's not obvious; we're not a member. This means that good news for the EU is good news for Norway, and the government chose the EU track early during the pandemic after considering alternatives to the acquisition of vaccines. There was no lack of criticism from the opposition for this. Norway was to go alone, you could hear, especially from the Center Party. Vaccine nationalism would be an unwise line for a small country like Norway, but Battle violence Vedum and his party still argued for this. They pointed to countries such as Israel and the United Kingdom, which have a higher rate of vaccination than Norway or the EU. However, it is totally unreasonable for Norway to compare us with the two countries. Vedum also called for cooperation with them and not with the EU. The truth is another one. Israel concluded specific agreements with producers at an early stage, in which it is doubtful whether Norway would be offered or allowed to participate, within the framework of Norwegian data protection. The British, on their side, have a large-scale domestic vaccine production. And the proposal for cooperation becomes more ironic when you think about how local teams in the Central Party have adopted boycotts of certain Israeli goods, and how the party wants government cooperation with parties that unilaterally recognize Palestine.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1236	It is clear that the government party has got a good voice before this debate, where one is to say that the government is acting, where to say that it is impossible to plan for a pandemic we do not know what the time is and how it is, and then an attack is to attack the Center Party. But this debate does not do any better. It's like there's a serious hindrance. We have the most extensive crisis in the country since World War II, and then I expected that there was a little more serious debate than what has at least come at the end. The representative of Ove Trellevik had a good idea about the role of the municipalities – extremely important. But I disagree that the government has done enough, considering that in May the municipalities only got a claim that they had to test 5 pst. of the population in a week. They didn't get any help in how this was going to be done, how the infection was going to happen. It happened in the old way, manually. The infection stopper collapsed, and it caused many municipalities to be completely behind when the ramparts started in the fall. No one's talking about it either. That the local authorities should get more help, and that one should learn from it, I could wish that someone from the government had actually said, and not just come with what they have done, when it got far out of the pandemic. So I want to bring up one thing in the debate that I don't like either, and that's when the Progress Party goes a long way in blaming immigrants for getting a pandemic. I think that's something we've been through in a little bit of different areas. It was the youth who was scapegoats in the fall. It has not been possible to be Polish families or come from Poland in Norway, because the labour immigrants were also scapegoats. And now there should be immigrants. I don't think that's how we should be in Norway, because there's something that makes us all get through this pandemic, is that no one should be scapegoats. We're going to have full openness, so that everyone dares to test, otherwise this is going in the wrong direction. When it comes to preparedness and there are so many different preparednesss, so we can't actually discuss this today, it's also just customs, because the Commission was clear that the government knew that a pandemic was the most likely national crisis. They say: ‘It is a serious failure that they were still not prepared when the covid-19 pandemic came.’ That is what is the starting point of this debate. And of course we'll look forward to it. We're all a few about that, because the pandemic is not over, and there are many demanding situations left that we have to take responsibility for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1254	First, I would like to say that I fully agree with the representative Toppe, who mentions this by pointing out scapegoats. Nobody is safe until everyone is safe in this matter. Therefore, it is important that we get the population vaccinated and that the world gets the population vaccinated. I understand that it has been difficult to sit with responsibility in a pandemic. But the criticism that hits exactly what everyone knew, that the most likely crisis that could hit us, was a pandemic, and that you didn't even have infectious equipment in place, is serious – because there's no hocuspocus. It's not something you should have had to think about and have big plans for. It's about the basic equipment you were supposed to have, about the most likely crisis that could occur. I am pleased that SV has addressed it several times, including the need to produce both medicines, vaccines and more infectious diseases equipment in Norway. We need that, just to have a certain level of competence and knowledge about this in the future. And so, we've seen how important the municipal sector is through this pandemic. They're responsible for some of the most vulnerable people, for the developmental, disabled, sick old, kids who need child protection, etc., and there are people we can't expect to be flexible. But what happened was that there was no capacity in the systems to handle a little more responsibility for infectious diseases, etc., and take care of very many of those who were very vulnerable. It is an important lesson in the future, that we need to have better capacity both in school and in care, so that it is possible to deal with crises – they are going to come – and that we are able to take good care of those who are vulnerable in society. Then I hear a lot of people talking about after-school clocks. Yeah, but we've had to push the government every single time when it comes to local economy. The municipalities told us that they needed more, and we had to press. When the companies said so, when culture said so, we pressed and got through better arrangements than the government put forward. From area to area, it's been like this, and I've wondered a lot about what it would look like if the government's proposal had been adopted. Was it meant not to be taken seriously? Was it just a kind of negotiation game, what you brought to the Stortinget, and not what you really thought was sufficient?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1266	It has been very strange to listen to this debate that has been going on today, in particular the Labour Party – let's say – a harsh criticism, where you attack everything and nothing and compare with the experience after July 22. It's an approximation of any proportion, because it's not possible to compare the total failure we saw in July 22 with the challenges we've seen in the pandemic situation in Norway. With the Progress Party in government, we have strengthened Norwegian preparedness significantly. It's a fact. But there are many types of preparedness. It's about ICT preparedness, and it's not least about terrorist preparedness, where under the Progress Party in government, we put in place the National Emergency Response Centre of the police. It gives a completely different basis for combating terrorist attacks on Norwegian soil. Yes, we have strengthened the police, we have strengthened the IP3 capabilities of the Norwegian police, and not least we have also got in place and are about to establish a rescue helicopter base in Tromsø. At all the important points where the Ministry of Justice and Justice are responsible for Norwegian preparedness, it has been significantly strengthened during the period of government. This does not mean that you should not be responsive to the criticism that has emerged in terms of pandemic preparedness, because it is extremely real. The Progress Party has been involved in this criticism. But it's a department that wasn't run by the Progress Party. There was too little infective equipment available, and too little thought has been given to how to prevent a pandemic in Norwegian soil. It is a fact that it has been at the top of the list of events that can affect Norway, and it has done so for a long time. This is why the government has also held various preparedness conferences in-house, stressing the responsibility of the necessary departments to build Norwegian preparedness. The Ministry of Justice has done so, to the most extent. I am not so sure that all the other departments have done the same. It's amazing that you can have this debate without going into the issues, and the anxiety about infection in immigrant environments. Only the Progress Party is talking about it. You haven't taken it seriously. One has tried to be politically correct, has not wanted to address that issue. Then we've had an infectious development that's been very challenging for Oslo, and that's also turned into the rest of the country in terms of the redistribution of vaccines. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1277	I would like to give an explanation of vote. The Progress Party will support the proposals No. 1, 2 and 4, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. We also ask that proposal No. Seventeen is going to be over the next one.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1282	I'll repeat what I said instead. I understand that it is difficult to control during a crisis, but there is something about listening along the way. Once we have dealt with the crisis packages in Stortinget, at least we in Stortinget have been informed by the municipalities that it was too small, and we pressed for it. The government made suggestions about something, but the Storting added on. Then there were the arrangements for them to leave: there the government put forward schemes that were too bad, and that would have caused even more people to have social problems, but I expect that that was what the government would be – not that there was some kind of playout in some kind of negotiation. But the Storting plus, and why did we do that? Well, because we heard the signals we got. We did the same when it came to business, and those arrangements are not good enough yet. We did this because we listened to business along the way – both travel life and especially very many of the small businesses, which seemed like the government has not heard, and has not worked on – to get arrangements that actually work in practice. That's why it's a little hard to swallow that the government should have, to say it like that, the whole credit for it as well. It would have been a completely different situation if the government's proposal throughout this pandemic was what had been adopted, and that situation had not been better. So this isn't just about post-clocking. It's about being able to listen along the way and take on the seriousness of the recordings that come in, because this isn't a recording from someone who doesn't understand what they're up to. This applies, for example: the tourism industry and all the small enterprises associated with it, and this concerns e.g.: cultural life, which has really had a hard time. What we have to do now is make sure that they get through the crisis and out of it – and stand on their feet. That is why I need to say now that we have to make sure that these schemes do not stop, that we do not end the measures until we know that they are doing well. It has to be about businesses, it has to be about cultural life, it has to be about municipalities, it has to be about everything that we can sort out in a way. Because what we know is that this coronary crisis has reinforced the differences, and I hear everyone saying that they want the differences to be smaller. Then we actually have to act politically to make that possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1293	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1298	We're not supposed to be afraid of anything when it's a pandemic. Then all the groups and all the people are going to get the same deal, and we're going to have the same attention on them. There's a difference between that and saying that one can be involved and helping some groups to be perceived as scapegoats. It's dangerous in a pandemic, and we have to take responsibility that at least we don't contribute. The Progress Party says that they have strengthened government preparedness – yes, but at least they have not strengthened health preparedness. That's what I'm thinking; that some of the sides of it we've seen that it's now coming up with a lot of criticism. Then we have to learn from it, because there's one thing that's safe, and that's not the last time we're in a situation with a pandemic and a health crisis in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1305	The representative Toppe is involved in making this debate a little more precise – I thank her for – because she is talking about health care. Yeah, that's important. The Progress Party has also been critical of it. In dealing with the social security report, we pointed out precisely the conditions: that more infectious equipment should be available, that more preparation should be made for a pandemic situation, and that was also announced. DSB has had it at the top of its scenarios over many years. It is a reality. But from there to make the proposal that I perceive especially the Workers' Party is in charge in this room, and to present it as if the government has not strengthened its preparedness since 2013 is with respect to reporting a total error. And they're quite thoroughly examined in this room, all the measures that have been taken, not least to combat terrorism, which has also been high on the list DSB has operated on. Terrorism preparedness and ICT security are important issues for which the Ministry of Justice is responsible and where they are delivered to the greatest extent. Claiming something else is a slap in the ass. It remains incorrect, and one cannot try to compare it with the situation in Norway, in the pandemic. The Progress Party does not agree with all the government's assessments, and the government could be better prepared on the health side, but comparing the situation with what we experienced on July 22, 2011 is a history falsification no one has earned to try. At that time there were strong forces that wanted the government to leave Stoltenberg, precisely because one was not prepared to deal with the dramatic and terrible attack we experienced on July 22nd. Now the pandemic situation in Norway, compared with many other countries, is relatively well managed. That doesn't mean that there's no reason to be critical, and I've been critical, especially on behalf of my party, that you haven't dared to be clear enough about the immigrant population and the responsibilities of the immigrant population in this situation. So we could have been in a completely different situation in Oslo if you had taken it more seriously and not been as careful as you were, and you could have been in a different situation if we had been better prepared on the health side. But the hope is to learn from it, and to stand better rusted the next time a pandemic is out. Unfortunately, we are at risk of this happening again, and Norway should be much better rusted up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1320	Until the last two posts by the representative Amundsen, it has seemed that the Progress Party has forgotten that they have been in government for seven years with ten government councils responsible for preparedness, among others. seven Ministers of Justice and two Ministers of Public Health, and that of the Ministers for Public Health, which was the highest, was precisely the representative of Sylvi Listhaug. Per-Willy Amundsen is the first representative of the Progress Party that I have heard in connection with the pandemic talk about something that happened before 20 March 2020, i.e. that period the Progress Party itself was involved and was responsible for preparing for preparedness. So the progress party put in government until January 2020, one month before the first recorded cases of Korona arrived in the country. So to what both the representative Amundsen and, to the extent that the Minister of Justice said earlier, when I, among other things, have withdrawn the lines to the Gjørv Commission, it is to learn. When both the Amundsen and the Minister of Justice earlier today respond to the challenge of withdrawing the lines to what the previous government did eight, nine or ten years back in time without admitting their own mistakes, I find it strange. It is absolutely right that 22 July 2011 and the coronary epidemic we have experienced now cannot be compared, at least not directly. The reason why I am baffled by the fact that it is so clearly drawn from the Minister of Justice is firstly that the Minister of Justice himself to the NRC compared the Gjørv Commission and the Corona Commission reports to the NRK – what the conclusions were at the time and now, and what it said about the government's work. Secondly, the reason why it is important to withdraw the lines is that the Gjørv Commission pointed out that there were some points, some challenges, or learning points, whether you want, which did not work, and which are general, which are about coordination, management, overall responsibility, exercise, planning – that relate to more crises than just terror, more crises than just pandemics. The brutal criticism of the Gjørv Commission is nobody who expounds, and I make absolutely no attempt at it either. I made a mistake before 22 July. But I believe that the Government and the Advance Party themselves must take the self-criticism of what the Corona Commission points out of similarities between the Gjørv Commission and the Korona Commission – on plans, exercises and coordination and overall responsibility. This isn't just me saying. The major research project NEXUS pointed out, among other things: that the coordination problems had not been resolved and that preparedness efforts had come to the fore in the first place. It's researchers from both the Defence College and OsloMet who have pointed out the similarities in the criticism of the two commissions. Then the point is that if you are to learn from the learning points of the two commissions, you must both take self-criticism and not underestimate the seriousness of what has come from the two commissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1331	That concludes the debate on the presentation. The President will return to further voting procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1350	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1357	First, I must be allowed to thank the Committee for effective work and good cooperation. The recommendation to the Grand Duchy to adopt the official Sami and official female names of the Kingdom of Norway is promoted by an overall committee. The proposal under consideration by the Committee expressed the wish to give the names of broad lashings. The introduction of official Sami and official women’s names will follow up Norway’s commitment under the European minority language pact. Overall, we can see this as a confirmation of the state's recognition of both the country's and the country's long relations. A thorough preparatory work has been carried out on the matter. KMD’s proposals were sent to the hearing in late October, following investigations in 2019 and 2020 in close dialogue with Sametinget, the Language Council and key women’s organisations and language settings. Finally, the recommendation from Mrs Sametinget came in November, and this is the one that has been proposed. Central women's organisations and language communities met the ministry in February. Kvensk City Name Service supported Kvensk Language Name Proposal. That's again what the Language Council recommended in its recommendation after the meeting and that's in our position. Until now, we have not had official Sami or official female names in Norway. It has, among other things, So the state's road system can't sign in Sami along our national border, which has made a lot of sense over many years. In February’s consultation meeting with the Sametinget, it was concluded that KMD is proposing general guidelines for the use of the names. It was agreed that although the Ministry does not consider it appropriate to include details of signage in the guidelines, KMD, in consultation with the Ministry of Transport, will initiate a process towards the State Road Service to ensure that it is distinguished in line with the wishes of the Sameting. I would therefore like to conclude by saying that I am very pleased that the Stortinget now has the opportunity to adopt the northern Sami, lulesamian, southern Sami and female names of the Kingdom of Norway. I hope public bodies use the names where it's possible, and with it helps raise awareness of the fact that we're a multilingual state, and stimulates an increased interest in these threatened and seriously threatened languages.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1374	Norway is a diverse and multilingual country. The Sami and female languages have a long history in Norway, and the government is therefore particularly concerned about protecting, promoting and making these languages visible. The northern Sami, lulesamian, southern Sami and female names of Norway are names that are in live use today. The adoption of these as official names makes the languages of the public space visible and confirms the names as important national cultural memories. The new name of the country is also a recognition of the long membership of Norway by the group and the women. I believe it is high time that this confirmation became visible by official decision of the names of Norway and the Kingdom of Norway in northern Sami, lulesamian, southern Sami and female. As a Sami minister, I am very grateful today because a unanimous committee is behind this recognition, and hopefully the rest of the Storting will join the happy decision today. Both the group and the women have been concerned that the official Sami and female names of the country should be visible at the national border. We have therefore started a work to ensure that it is distinguished in Sami and female languages along the national border. Adoption of official names allows for multilingual signage at the national border. I know many in Norway are happy to be able to cross the borders again, and even I do. I am happy to drive from Sweden into the municipality of Meråker in Trøndelag and see the sign in southern Sami along the border, and I am delighted because it is a strong symbol that Sami and Norwegian are equivalent languages. For those of us who have Norwegian as their mother tongue, it may be difficult to understand why it is so important to make Sami and female visible. But when we assume that it has been forbidden to speak and write Sami and female at school in Norway, we realize how important it is that Sami and female words can now be heard and seen in society, on radio, on TV, on buildings and on road signs. It's a pleasure for me, on behalf of the government, to propose to the Storting that the Storting decide: Norga as the official northern Sami name of Norway. Vuodna as the official lulesamian name of Norway. Noorje as an official Southern Sami name in Norway. And Norja as an official woman's name in Norway. I think it is nice that new official names of the country can become visible and heard, including from the country's main pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1408	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1425	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1432	First of all, thank you to the Committee on Good Cooperation and Effective Treatment in the case. Exceedances of costs and cost increases in the construction project are both unfortunate and undesirable, and it also comments on the Committee's position. The proposal proposes that the cost framework for the project be increased by 150 million. NOK 8 500 million. kr. at price level as of 1 July 2021, and it is then assessed as necessary to complete Campus Ås. At the same time, it is proposed to increase the cost framework for the user equipment project by 25 million. NOK 1245 million in total. kr. The proposition refers to the fact that the ongoing pandemic has made the progress of the project difficult and that rules on entry restrictions, increased distance regulation, etc. have led to delays and additional costs and made the work difficult in the final part of the construction process. The pandemic has had major consequences for many sectors of our society. We must recognise this, but the Committee will nevertheless point out that there have been several increases in the cost framework in this project even before the pandemic. The whole committee is concerned that public building projects should be managed cost-effectively, so when we now agree to this increase in the cost framework in order to complete the project, we do so with a clear expectation of a tight economic follow-up in the final works. But when that is said, Campus Ås, when it's assembled, will mean a big boost to veterinary medicine, with the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute assembled under one roof, and according to Stadsbyg, the new building on campus is probably one of the most advanced ever built in Norway. Campus Ås is a project with many unique solutions, advanced user equipment and technology that has been developed and designed to meet a specific need of the users of this particular building. Many of the solutions and many of the user equipment have not been available in Norway and it has made it necessary to use an international supply market. The ongoing pandemic has made it difficult to rely on foreign suppliers without access to good alternatives. So I would like to make it clear, as also stated in the letter from the Council of State to the Committee following this matter, that we regard this as a cost framework in which it should not be given that the whole framework should be used, but that the framework should ensure the completion of the project and the commitments to be made at the final stage. It is a unanimous vote by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1451	Thank you to the rapporteur, who gave a thorough account of the Committee's position. I just want to draw your attention to the remark made by the Workers' Party, the Senter Party and the SV, where we refer to the letter of reply from the Council of State, that the pandemic has made this an extraordinary situation. In this note, we describe that there is a risk of being entirely dependent on foreign and contracted labour, that it can provide cost increases, as you can see now, and that there is a need to make assessments related to the design and breakdown of tenders, so that even smaller Norwegian enterprises can participate in competition. We may save time by dropping long line changes if the Council of State in its statement could clarify how he views such a more divided tender system. Local and regional employment would benefit if the size of the tender made it possible to deal with small and medium-sized enterprises – many of them around the country – that could benefit from participating in that type of tender. But if it becomes too big and too heavy a bid, we really limit the possibility of submitting tenders to maybe a handful or two very large and heavy companies, and it is not certain that ultimately that is what is most socio-economically useful. It may be that the price tag can get a little cheaper there, at the bottom, but when you look at the big picture, you might see that, by letting local and regional companies take part in the tenders and maybe even win them, a larger part of the value creation could be left locally and regionally, and not just a handful or two large companies. It would be interesting if the Council of State could say something about how the government thinks about the kind of breakdown of tenders. And it might also be possible that we could have a shorter row round afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1462	The central party was part of the government which in 2008 decided that the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute should be co-located at Ås in partnership with the University, NMBU. We were also part of the majority who made the new building decision in 2013. Like the many students who are currently working from home, we are looking forward to the new veterinary college opening up too fully, and we support the committee's recommendation to the Stortinget. Nevertheless, I would like to link some comments to the additional costs of the project. We all have a great deal of understanding that the coronary apathy slows down progress and increases costs, including here. It should be noted that equipment produced abroad is delayed, that foreign suppliers are subject to quarantine and entry ban, that there will be additional costs associated with the rental of Norwegian suppliers, and that there will be longer construction time due to distance requirements at the construction site. Increase of a total of 175 million. kr is a significant sum. In response to questions, the Council of State explains this and confirms that there is a cost framework. In the answer, the same moments are listed as in the proposition, with some more details about what the actual costs are. The current monthly cost of the construction project is estimated at 50 million. kr, the impact on the user equipment project is estimated at 3,5 million. kr per month. We hope, as the Council of State also suggests, that the cost framework is seen as just a framework, and that expenditure can at best be slightly reduced. I would also like to raise what the majority of the committee, including the Central Party, refers to in its comment, and on which the representative Lauvås was thoroughly involved. We see here a good example of the risk of being entirely dependent on foreign labour in a large Norwegian construction project. We want tenders to be more widely broken down and developed in such projects in such a way that smaller Norwegian companies become competitive. Short travel should be given much greater emphasis in building offers. Finally, I look forward very much to the completion, and send the collegiate congratulations to all students and employees who enjoy the new veterinary building.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1473	The co-location project on Campus Ås is, with its 63 000 m2, the largest development in the university and research sectors in Norway. The project provides the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute with new premises for the teaching, research and treatment of animals. Employees and students have access to world-class research, laboratory and teaching facilities. Then, of course, the increased time use and the increased costs of the project are very unfortunate. There is clearly a need for a thorough review of the project afterwards, and we have therefore already launched a tender for external evaluation of the causes of the delays and cost increases in the project. The aim is to award a contract now at the beginning of May, so that the evaluation can start during the month. So the majority of the committee has a note that this case shows that there is a risk of being totally dependent on foreign labour, and that such dependence can bring huge cost increases, as we now see. The majority indicate that there is therefore a need for evaluations relating to the design and breakdown of tenders, so that Norwegian enterprises can also participate in the competition. The Campus Ås co-location project is a project with a number of unique solutions with advanced user equipment and technology to meet the specific needs of building users. Many of these technical solutions and necessary equipment are not available in the Norwegian market. For some plants, only a few suppliers worldwide can offer the required equipment. It has therefore been absolutely necessary for the project to make use of foreign suppliers. Unfortunately, the pandemic has made it very difficult to rely on suppliers from abroad, without good alternatives for state buildings as builders. There have, of course, been many Norwegian suppliers within this project. The project has more than 30 contractor prices and 140 equipment contracts with hundreds of subcontractors. However, there are also a number of foreign suppliers supplying equipment that is not available from Norwegian companies. Then we have to go to Switzerland, Germany, the United States and Denmark — to name a few — to find the equipment required by the specialised facilities on Campus Ås. I hope there was an answer to the question that was directly asked by the representative Lauvås.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1488	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1493	No, there probably wasn't an answer to the question. I understand that in this particular project, as perhaps also in others, it can be completely specially designed things that we may not be able to produce or assemble with professional expertise in Norway. The question was essentially on a more general basis as to what the Council of State thinks of having more fragmentation, having smaller tenders, so that local and regional enterprises can actually participate in the tenders. Because they get too big and heavy, it goes without saying that many of the small and medium-sized enterprises that have skilled professionals, skilled craftsmen, do not have the backbone to carry large and heavy projects in the hundreds of millions of people. If they split up, they could also join the competition and even win some, and the value creation could become larger locally and regionally. That's the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1500	The representative must have excused me that I assumed that with the reference to the comment that was relevant to this particular matter, it was actually about this matter. I understand that the representative then believes this is something quite different, namely the use of tenders in general. If that's what this is all about – well, I'd like to answer that, too, even if it's not just about my constitutional responsibilities, but also about those of others. But let me say that the government has been very concerned that we should have tenders that allow Norwegian contractors and suppliers to compete, and we see that we have also succeeded. For example, on the road side there is now an enormous amount of road and track in this country under this government, and Norwegian companies are fortunately winning in the competition for large and important contracts – to mention one example. But just in this project, on Campus Ås, it's broken up into a lot of different contracts and equipment contracts, and some are also special contracts that only foreigners can deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1509	I understand, as I said, that there may be special products and special sewing that we may not have the equipment and competence to handle in the Norwegian construction industry – to call it that. But that's the exceptions, I guess. So I just want to ask a follow-up question, because the municipal minister, the municipal department, the state, is a big builder, perhaps the largest builder in Norway. If I understood correctly, the Council of State is not opposed to breaking up and making smaller tenders, so that it is possible to compete. He mentioned roads, but here we talk more about construction, and then I could imagine asking the council: is there any tender examples out now, or someone coming in the near future that the council could list up?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1514	It is quite right that State Building is a major builder, and the contract strategy to be chosen will vary on a case-by-case basis and must be assessed on a case-by-case basis, but on a general basis, it is clear that we are concerned that Norwegian companies should also be able to claim in the competition for tenders that we put forward, and we also see that they do. As I said, there are some special cases on which it is not possible to deliver from Norway. One of the things that they like. are robots analysing samples and supplied by a firm in Switzerland. This is something that Norwegian suppliers cannot deliver, and we have to take that into account. I perceive that the matter we are dealing with now is about delays and exceedances on Campus Ås, while the representative Lauvås is trying to make this a debate on tenders in general. But it's probably a little outside of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1524	But Lauvås will have another line.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1529	Well, thank you. It wasn't meant to disturb the picture here, but the Council of State is responsible for State Building, so I don't think it's completely unnatural to ask any questions about this when we have the comment we have. Did I understand the Council of State correctly now – that he will give the steering signal to State Building that they should split up and make the tenders smaller, making it easier for local and regional businesses to participate in State tenders?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1536	As I said, the government is concerned that we should have tenders that also allow Norwegian suppliers to claim in the competition, and we see that they do. As regards the size of the tender, we have seen that in the construction of new road sections, for example, Norwegian companies have been able to take or win much bigger contracts than the opposition before we let them out, and that is probably also a sign that Norwegian operators are adapting to these large construction projects, and that is good. But, as I said, on Campus Ås, it's divided into many different company prices, and it also makes it easier for smaller companies to compete for tenders. And there are also many subcontractors, many of whom are local and very many of course Norwegian, and that's what it should still be.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1543	Let's see. The reason I asked the Council of State in this case was that we could now see an example of a kind of vulnerability that is related to a situation like the one we now have, and maybe some learning points that we're talking about. In reply to the Committee, the Council of State writes: ‘Norwegian entrepreneurs must be hired in order to carry out work that would have been done by non-resident entrepreneurs.’ This means that it is part of this work that is not about the kind of expertise that Norway does not have. It is about ‘installation wrecks, plant equipment, fences, watchkeeping, and operating costs of the premises’, as stated by the Council of State in its reply. So completely irrelevant to this matter is it not.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1559	As I said, this is the largest expansion in the university and research sectors in Norway ever, and with 63 000 m2 it is a huge project. This means that it is necessary to play in both Norwegian and foreign entrepreneurs. It is also true that very many Norwegian entrepreneurs use foreign workers from time to time, so that they have a vulnerability there as well. There is no guarantee that you only get local labour even if it is a Norwegian company that wins the contract. But yes, it's a vulnerability, and this is not the only area where there's vulnerability when it comes to dependence on the rest of the world. We are not self-sufficient in everything in this country. I don't think it's a wise strategy either that we should be self-sufficient in absolutely everything, because until that we're a little too few people and have a little too little chance of specializing, so I think the result of it will be weaker for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1567	SV has never mentioned that we should not interact with abroad, trade with them and cooperate on expertise, but this is also about how we can build up and strengthen the Norwegian business community. The second vulnerability, on which the Council of State is involved, is the increase in the use of rentals in Norwegian enterprises of foreign labour versus hiring people permanently and building up their skills. Then it's not about your citizenship being Polish or Norwegian, but that we actually have a working life in Norway as we want it to be, with security in it, but also that we have Norwegian companies that acquire a competence that they can compete with. Does the Council of State see that there is also an important aspect of these matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1572	The state is a major builder, and it is clear that all the resources we use to build and develop also help to build and develop Norwegian business and Norwegian businesses. That's what we're concerned about. Then I'm very happy to hear that Andersen's representative is also concerned with Norwegian companies. We were recently told about SV's new proposal for inheritance tax, which would really be the hook at the door of medium-sized enterprises all around the coast. The representative shakes his head, but 70 pst. inheritance tax – it is clear that the companies must then be sold. Who's going to buy them? Yes, they're foreigners. If you really want to build up during Norwegian business, it's a little strange that the representative Andersen is going to choose an inheritance fee that is really going to put the hook on the door for Norwegian businesses, local business off the coast in the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1577	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1598	We have just had an in-depth debate today on the report of the Corona Commission and the government's reaction to this report. It's a good back ground for the issues I'm dealing with in this interpellation, but at the same time I think there's reason to see the situation in the last fourteen months in a different and more fundamental democratic perspective. It is now about the relationship between representatives and voters, power and legitimacy, i.e. what can be termed a state-scientific core area – the study of the functioning of political institutions, political behaviour and public policy under the extreme conditions that a pandemic can create. I have deliberately failed to incite this interpellation to a sharp party political bridge, in the hope that it may prompt a reflection across ideological dividing lines. The Korona Commission's report has been thorough on some of the legal issues, which are obviously of great importance in analysing last year's experience and recommending new administrative regulations. One of my objections to the report itself is that it jumps over the behavioural analysis that provides the basis for, for example, Some municipalities have opted to disregard the IPD and have almost improvised new decision-making processes – probably in the best sense, but not at all in accordance with the law. As the report describes it, ‘Community doctors have taken urgent decisions [...] to a somewhat greater extent than there is legal access to’. I have more examples of such practices, but neither the opposition in the municipalities nor the press seems to have taken particular interest in them. All the parties on the Stortinget are now implementing digital national meetings where the major elections programme is to be adopted under entirely new conditions. In such processes, the relationship between partisan management and grassroots is often tested, and I think we could all benefit from good reflections on how the lack of physical contact between delegates may have affected the decision-making outcome. Is it true that individual batches have chosen better solutions than others, and in that case: according to which criteria? The relationship between accumulation and government has been thoroughly problematic both in the present report and, not least, in the public vocabulary. Nevertheless, few have taken into account the political work of each representative during the pandemic. The ombudsman role has at best changed, in the worst case it has been minimised. I don't think we should be blind because this may have had some long-term significance for the relationship between elites and voters, that is, the very core of our representative democracy. There is every reason to give tribute to the presidency for the way in which the work in Stortinget has been organised, with glass-plastics, 87 representatives in the hall, digital hearings, silent mask migrations in empty corridors and lunch in the office or on individual tables reminiscent of exam settlements. My point is the total absence of normal political, social contact – often across party boundaries. In some words, this is often referred to as a corridor policy, but one should not have been long on the Storting until one sees the democratic importance of informal dialogue venues in complex decision-making processes. In mid-March we could read a notice from the Prime Minister's office about the Minister for Foreign Affairs who was going to go to Brussels and then go to quarantine on return. As it said, ‘Minister of Foreign Affairs Ine Eriksen Soreide will attend the NATO Minister of Foreign Affairs meeting in Brussels on 23 and 24 March. [...] Participation in the NATO Foreign Minister’s meeting is important in order to safeguard Norwegian foreign policy interests.’ I have not recorded any negative response to the need for the Minister for Foreign Affairs to participate physically – it should be lacking – but the same need, on a smaller scale, may well be felt to be applicable to the individual representative here in the Chamber as regards the observance of the interests of our electors? In order not to talk about the Storting’s international activities, which are also not immaterial in the development of Norway’s relations with the rest of the world, and which are also obviously suffering from the lack of physical contact with colleagues outside the country’s borders. I can't say that I've noticed that someone's been problematic about this. Much has been said and written about the parliamentary situation we have had in the last six months, not least in relation to the fiscal processes of compensation and incentive schemes. If you look in isolation at the relationship between government and greatness – i.e. isolated – it's obvious to most people that the balance of power in this house has tipped in favor of this hall since the time of a majority rule. As much as some of the representatives here in the hall could well imagine a majority government, it is obvious that as an institution, the Storting has benefited from a reputation compared to some of the things that impressed the first few years of this period. It has been established as a mouth hole that the corona has been like a magnifying glass on some social levels. Of course it will be a speculation, but can it be that old proposals for changed parliamentary practices, including, for example, investment, which have been repeatedly promoted here in the Chamber, can be renewed under this pandemic? And now we're faced with a big choice, a choice where no one has yet been given to know how the parties are going to meet their voters. To what extent will the financial strength be decisive – will the big parties with the strongest economy be able to overdo all the small ones in the fight for decibel and attention, through the purchased gap in social media? Is access to digital analytical tools important? Some of us probably still remember Cambridge Analytics. Do we get a election campaign shaped by politicians against politicians, where the voters disappear behind their TV screens and digital platforms? What is the significance of pre-selection if our health authorities recommend that voters spread their votes over a longer period of time, so that they are as low as possible in line with the urns on the election day itself? And not least: how will the pandemic, government crisis management and, for example, The debate we have had here in the Chamber earlier today, on the election result itself? The questions I raised during this article can certainly fill in many research reports. Nevertheless, I am most concerned about the problems associated with the pandemic that none of us have discovered the significance of. What are the issues that we have overlooked and that are of importance for the future of our democracy? I am not so surprised that the report of the Korona Commission, which is so full of deep legal insight – sometimes rather plentiful – has not given more room to the long-term democratic consequences. I can hardly imagine another research topic that is so dovetailed for a comparative international perspective. In any case, in the coming months it will be a stress test for our democracy, as one has expressed it. That is why I allow myself to suggest to the Council of State that the time should now be for an independent, ministerially self-initiated research project on pandemics and democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1628	The representative Grimstad asks whether the government will take the initiative for a comprehensive and research-based report with experience from the democratic challenges and opportunities that the pandemic has created. I would like to thank the representative for an important question. The short answer is that we do not just want to, but that we have already launched a major research project to investigate the state of Norwegian democracy. Work started in November 2020 and is led by democracy researchers at the University of Oslo. They deliver their first report in the fall of 2022. In the future, we plan to measure the state of Norwegian democracy every four years, so that we can follow developments over time. The project is to compare Norwegian democracy with other democracies, especially in the Nordic countries. Researchers shall set targets that can be used to look at whether, and, where appropriate, how, the coronary apathy affects democracy and how other important conditions, such as: The digitisation of society, terrorist threats, climate change and migration are affecting various aspects of our democracy. We can call it a review of the state of democracy's health. The analytical tools developed to measure this state of health of democracy have been developed to provide us with comprehensive and nuanced information about democracy – regardless of whether we are in a pandemic or not. The analytical tools help us to identify where there is the potential to further develop democracy, both what we need to take care of, and what can be improved. I want to take the opportunity to praise the municipalities for their willingness and ability to convert under the Coronapandemic – not least how the municipalities have respected democratic institutions and principles at a time when we have not been able to meet physically. My impression is that the use of digital meetings in the municipalities has speeded up during the pandemic. A rapporteur said that she had not experienced before that so many citizens have attended the local government meetings online. Locally, we can also read that both Presidency meetings, sample meetings and hearings have become more accessible to the population. Many meetings have been streamed directly on the municipal websites and social media to the delight of viewers who might not otherwise have found the way to the audience bench. The new municipal law, which entered into force in the autumn of 2019, extended the possibility of remote meetings. Now all the bodies in the municipalities and county councils, including the local government and county council, can have long-distance meetings. There is no longer a requirement for a matter to be urgent. This change was in place before the pandemic, and it has been tested and better known in the last year. The Government has also made proposals for remote meetings to be held by representatives and boards of an inter-municipal company. Many of us, both in municipalities and county municipalities, in the government and on the Stortinget, have had many experiences with remote meetings during the pandemic. Most people miss enough to meet colleagues face to face, and more than me may also have learned that not all political work is so easy to implement digitally, as the representative was also about. For example, body language can say a lot that is difficult to capture in a remote meeting. Much of the interaction that is important for finding good solutions and compromises is more difficult to achieve in digital meetings. Corridor policy is disappearing. Nevertheless, increased digitisation has provided us with experience and lessons that will enable us to use technology in an even better way in the future. I don't think that would have happened as quickly without the pandemic, and many of us have probably had more meetings and met more people digitally than we had pulled to do physically. The result is that more people are given the opportunity to attend different kinds of public meetings and recording meetings with politicians and elected representatives. In the last few months, for example, has had quarterly meetings with the rapporteurs in all the municipalities of the country. This would be harder to do if we were to have physical meetings. We have recently handed over the first report of the Corona Commission, on which the representative was also involved. It contains interesting assessments of how national and local authorities have respected democratic principles under the pandemic. The report itself, but they also obtained reports from, among others, Norway's human rights institution, discusses how democratic rules of play, such as: the involvement of citizens, the transparency of assessments and the transparency of elected bodies and other principles have been followed under the pandemic. The report points out, among other things: on some democratic challenges that arose when the country suddenly faced a crisis situation and had to take decisions quickly, partly on an uncertain basis. The Commission also makes more recommendations on how democracy can be better achieved in similar crises. The report was submitted a few weeks ago, but as the pandemic is still ongoing, the Commission shall continue its work and make further reports and recommendations. The Coronapandemic has turned on the global democracy indices, such as: V-Dem Institute, Varieties of Democracy, which measures the state of democracy in countries around the world. The latest report shows that the pandemic has led to more serious democratic challenges in several countries. With regard to the countries with the most developed democracies, the index shows that they have been successful through the pandemic, even though in some of these countries there are things to tackle and that we should improve in the future. Democracy is strong in Norway and does well in international comparisons that measure the development of democracy. A living and decentralised democracy is one of the reasons. Democracy must continue to evolve. We therefore need to acquire a good knowledge of the state of Norwegian democracy to see if we should do something different. We also face new challenges, such as: undesirable influence on the choice, dissemination of disinformation, hate stories, threats to politicians and journalists and decision-making processes which, in a crisis and state of emergency, are not sufficiently democratically anchored. The state analysis that I mentioned at the outset will look at different aspects of democracy, both related to elections, participation between elections, the quality of the public debate, the extent to which different groups in society have in practice the same opportunities for political participation, and the constitutional protection of individual rights such as: freedom of expression, freedom of movement and assembly. The analysis will cover all parts of democracy, at both national, regional and local levels. This independent research project will provide new and up-to-date knowledge of the state of Norwegian democracy — eventually also in the light of the coronary apathy, as the interpellant has called for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1656	I thank the Council of State for a good answer and very good reflections. I see a chronicle here in some suitable medium. Of course, I am very pleased with this investigation work that is now under way, and from a state science point of view, it is clear that it is going to put a trail behind it. But it's not specifically aimed at the pandemic situation itself. It's going to follow the development of democracy for a long time in the future, and the year and a half we've been through has been an exceptional case to those degrees, so that in a comparative perspective it's probably a very strange result for the first 14, 15, 16 months of the analysis time that this investigation work takes into account. But then, of course, it's quite true what the Council of State says -- I was probably a bit critical of my approach to this interpellation -- that there are, of course, a number of positive features that have evolved in terms of our understanding of democracy during this time. As I have said, counting crews are about to leave the Norwegian language – it is not missing – and we have had more effective ways of developing meetings, and digital hearings here in Stortinget should have actually been conducted a long time ago. Because it pulls too much travel capacity to sit for three minutes and talk for e.g. The health and care committee, which I represent, after a long journey from Finnmark. That may be nice, but it is completely unnecessary both for climate reasons and for time reasons for the important representatives coming from the communities and entering the Storting. We can continue with the digital hearings even after the pandemic is over, at my discretion. Then I have a prayer, which I understand is that the Council of States is only so keen to follow up, and it's about: how are we going to be able to address the issues I have addressed in my opening article? I have taken it up in a previous article here, in the Corona Commission debate, that the issue of communication is particularly poorly addressed in that report – 10 out of 455 pages, on a question that is particularly important for the government’s management of the pandemic situation. The comparative perspective, in my view, is completely lacking also in the political behaviour associated with handling. In other words, the Danish Korona report is much more thorough and takes into account the situation with neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1667	The President can remind the interpellant that we had counting corps to take the necessary decisions as late as March 2020 here in the Stortinget. Then it was necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1672	A lot has happened since March 2020. Let me start by saying that I agree that this is a topic that is suitable for a chronicle, and perhaps the representative and I would take the initiative to write a common chronicle in a suitable medium. It's not so often that we have both the press and two potential chroniclers gathered in the hall, and where we're basically the only ones here – with the exception of Councillor Raja, of course, and he'll be there too, he says. So then he'll join us, so the Council of State-- I'll make sure to mention him like that, President. But let me also say, yes, this democracy project isn't going to focus specifically on the pandemic in isolation, but because you have to measure the state of democracy over time and preferably every four years, this project will capture various variables that affect the state of Norwegian democracy. Now it's pandemic. In four years there may be something completely different, and between there – who knows what can happen? So I think, by itself, that even though the project isn't designed on the pandemic in isolation, it's still going to capture the effects of the pandemic. And maybe it's that some of the consequences, both positive and negative, that the representative is discussing, will be much clearer when we have the pandemic a little bit more distant than now when we're standing in the middle of it. So this is going to be an interesting discussion not only to take now, but also to follow and look at the long-term effects of democracy in the future. This morning I started the meeting day with a meeting of 90 people from all over the country. Usually, if I were to do this physically, I might meet three–seven at a time, per stop in the Inland, but in an hour we were actually 90 people talking about the generalist principle. I think that's very valuable, too, that we've now really taken advantage of the opportunities offered by digitization. Then we need to be aware of the challenges it also creates by removing the informal arenas, which are often the arenas that generate most ideas. A good few years ago, before I entered the Stortinget, I was invited to More and Romesdal Right, to the annual meeting, to begin about the EU. I realized in the evening that it was not the European Union they were interested in at all. They were interested in telling this possible new Oslo representative about the need to build roads in More and Romesdal counties, because, as they said, in Oslo, you have four fields, and here we lack yellow stripe – and this was important that I understood. So I don't think we should underestimate the importance of even the informal channels that the physical meetings provide. I am pleased to continue this important debate in the future and thank the interpellant for taking up the topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1687	That is when the debate is on case No. 8 done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1701	Freedom of expression is both the basis and the objective of media policy. Freedom of expression is a fundamental individual right and crucial to social development, the rule of law and democracy. Freedom of expression contributes to a more informed society through free access to a diversity of information and views. It is the very basis for free expression and allows the population to be actively participating and critically thinking citizens in society. The Constitution requires the authorities to facilitate free exchange of views through an open and informed public conversation. This is the so-called infrastructure requirement of the Basic Law § 100. The media play an indispensable role in the infrastructure for the public exchange of information and opinions. A diversity of independent, editorial media with important social journalism from different areas of society is essential for freedom of expression and for a well-functioning democracy. Such a media diversity also contributes to strengthening the Norwegian and Sami languages. Yesterday was the International Press Release Day. The day marks the fundamental principles of freedom of the press and the defence of the media. It's also a day to remember journalists who have lost their lives in the pursuit of their profession, because there are many of them around the world. Norway has an ambition to be a leading nation in promoting freedom of expression and independent media. We are. But there's a position we have to work every single day to keep and improve. Freedom of expression and freedom of the press are strong in Norway. We're topping the international press freedom index of reporters without limits for five consecutive years. The index is based on criteria related to transparency in society, media independence, state framework conditions, journalists’ security and media pluralism. The top positions show that we are very successful in many of these areas, and that's good. Media diversity is a central goal of the government. The media surveillance documentes the development and status of media pluralism in Norway through its annual media diversity accounts, which were first submitted in 2020. The accounts show that we have a variety of editorial media across the country, which are strong as news sources and the common arena. We also have a good user diversity. In other words, large sections of the population use many different editor-driven media. It is important that we all be exposed to multiple sources in order to see complex conditions in society from different perspectives. The state and media policy should not regulate the media people use, but we should facilitate the availability to the population of a variety of media covering different aspects of society. The media diversity accounts show that we are well placed. The Covid-19 pandemic has strengthened the role of the editor-driven media in Norwegian society. The use of both TV, web newspapers and streaming services increased considerably during the first part of the pandemic. At a time of considerable public information needs, the media have acted as a national common arena and have provided ongoing news coverage, press conferences, analyses and debate. Local media have also played an important role as intermediaries of ongoing news, not least in the context of the local infectiveness situation and in the prevention of infectious diseases. Societal journalism shall inform citizens and examine critical situations. The media shall be a venue for an open and enlightened public change of words. The media have played an invaluable role under covid-19 and deserve the thanks of the entire community. They have kept us constantly up-to-date on both international and national conditions and the situation where we live. The media have communicated the consequences of the development of the pandemic and provided us with information on the necessary protection against infection. Fortunately, the media have also asked us critical questions about politicians and professional authorities. The significance of this cannot be underestimated. Critical issues give better political decisions. In addition, the editor-directed media have acted as an important counterweight to the dissemination of disinformation about covid-19, which has taken place in social media. During the covid-19 pandemic, socially important journalism has really demonstrated its democratic function, both nationally and locally. It is now well over one year since the first covid-19 case in Norway. Business has stood, and still stands, in an incredibly demanding situation. For the government, it has been important to ensure that the media have been able to maintain their social function in this situation. One of the first things we did was formally defining the media as an important social function. This has ensured that key media personnel have been able to work, for example. by prioritising access to kindergartens. In addition, we established a temporary compensation scheme for editor-guided media that has suffered a loss of income as a result of covid-19. This scheme was even better than the general arrangements for business by setting the limit already at 15 p.m. loss of income. We set the limit so low because we wanted to make sure that the media could maintain their business under the pandemic. The compensation mechanism was the result of good dialogue with the industry and our ability to take action when the situation requires it. 132 media received a total of 92 million. kr in compensation for loss of income due to covid-19. The overall framework for the scheme was 300 million. kr. So we didn't use the whole frame. It's not because the scheme missed the target, it's simply because it's been better for the media industry than the situation at the beginning of the pandemic caused fear. Some media have even chosen to repay the compensation because they achieved good economic results despite the pandemic. It says respect. However, the reports also show that the small local media are most vulnerable in such a crisis, and they have been hit hardest by the covid-19 pandemic. As announced in the media support message, we redistribute media support to small local media. We do that both because local media are important to local democracy, and because many of these media have a small and vulnerable economy and need assistance for essential innovation and digital transformation. In Norway, the field of opinion and media is a good one. From an international perspective, Norway is an open society, with state framework conditions ensuring a high level of freedom of expression and media independence. We have a diversity of media and a well-organised media production and diverse media use infrastructure. But that doesn't mean we can relax and think that the job is done. It is easy to take freedom of expression as a matter of course in a country like Norway and to think that it is both firmly anchored and in many ways a little uncontroversial. However, freedom of expression is not a single theme. Freedom of expression is both an objective in itself and an instrument — an instrument to promote ‘the search for truth, democracy and the free formation of the individual’, as set out in the Constitution. So it's not the opinions that all of us agree on, that need protection. Indifferences and of course things work out fine without. The statements that need protection are the controversial, the provocative, the statements that break with established truths. It's these statements that can bring us forward, to better insight and understanding. At the same time, there are also such statements that just make freedom of expression so difficult, and sometimes so bad. Every day we see new examples of freedom of expression being either put under pressure or broken against other interests. Often it's about dilemmas that don't have obvious answers. Freedom of expression comes, for example. up when we discuss Quran burning up against violent demonstrations against SIAN the right to criticise the Agency’s pandemic management against the emergence of conspiracy environments and vaccine skepticism; the freedom of expression of the Black Box against the protection of the privacy of politicians; the right to argue strongly for their opinions in social media, while some – especially in vulnerable groups – choose to stand out because the cost of standing in the storm becomes too high; All these debates, and more, show the need to take a step back and think a little general and in principle about the perhaps all the most important democratic right we have. That is why last year the government set up a new freedom of expression commission. The Commission's mandate covers many of the most topical, but at the same time the most difficult, questions and dilemmas of our time. The mandate recognises the editor-driven journalistic media as a central part of the infrastructure of freedom of expression. The Commission has been asked to assess the role of the editor-directed media and how distribution in digital channels in competition with other types of content affects the framework conditions for the production and dissemination of quality journalism. The Commission shall also consider measures against public manipulation through disinformation or influence campaigns and measures to ensure the security of journalists. Digitalisation has changed the structures and assumptions of the field of opinion and media. Digitalisation and innovation have given us amazing new tools to communicate with. We have all the phones that we can use to take pictures, movies and texts with, and we can put our eyewitness accounts or opinions on social networks that reach large parts of the globe's population. The tools make it possible to organize and be heard in new ways. Metoo, Black Lives Matter and the video footage of the police officer Derek Chauvin with his knee on the back of George Floyd are a few examples. Furthermore, platforms have created an infrastructure such as other activities, including: the media, using to provide content and services to a broad public. For a long time, we were most concerned with the positive aspects of the new platforms and tools. In the last few years, we've seen more of the medal's backside. Platform companies, such as Google and Facebook, have become very large and play an important role in the dissemination of editorial material. We have seen several examples of platforms interacting with Norwegian businesses and Norwegian citizens in a way that we do not want. A few years ago, Facebook censored the historical image of napalm girl from the Vietnam War that the Evening Post published. Recently, the Holocaust Center was banned for days without any explanation. It turned out that the reason was a QAnon illustration that the center had used in connection with an event on conspiracy theories in the U.S. presidential election. We've seen that Google wouldn't approve the NRK Super app because of the nudity of the Superbody and Fantoran series. It is profoundly problematic when platforms act as censorship bodies to Norwegian editors, based on internal guidelines based on American cultural standards and rules. If a Norwegian editor-driven medium publishes within the framework of Norwegian criminal law, the Media Liability Act and the Norwegian media’s Presseetic Code, the platform should not be able to overdo this. If a platform removes something it should not have removed, Norwegian organisations, citizens and media operators should have a Norwegian contact point to which they can contact for an explanation. Ideally, these platforms should have spokespersons who can defend decisions directly in News 18. It's not like that today. When the NRK tried to take up the blocking of the Superbody in the NRK Super app with Google, they were uncertain whether they were communicating with an automated service or a person. The example might be a little bit comical, but it's kind of scary. We cannot leave responsibility for the Norwegian public to faceless technology agents. The platforms have a potential for enormous influence on what you and I – yes, everyone – get to see online. With secret recipes – algorithms – they decide what content is raised and promoted in Facebook feeds, which movie snippet is the next that starts on YouTube, which filter bubble you turn into on Instagram, and which content is buried on the second or third side of the search results on Google. We believe it is absolutely necessary to have a public debate on the priorities behind when the platforms select content for us. That's why we're going in for increased transparency, for example. around platform recommendation algorithms. It is within the remit of the Freedom of Speech Commission to assess these issues. The Commission shall discuss how the authorities can contribute to the exercise of new port guards functions in line with the principles of freedom of expression, readability and independence, and discuss the need to clarify the role and legal responsibilities of platforms and to assess international cooperation and possible regulation. It goes without saying that many of these challenges cannot be solved at national level. There is a need here for international driving rules. The EU has put forward proposals for a new regulation called the Digital Services Act, such as: contain a framework on how technology companies should deal with illegal content on their platforms, more transparency about the use of algorithms by platforms and strengthen consumer rights by facilitating the safe use of digital services and by enabling users to report illegal content and contest the removal of their content by platforms. We aim to develop an EFTA position to safeguard our interests. Furthermore, as part of the digital strategy, the EU has proposed a Digital Markets Act in which large platform companies will be designated as gatekeepers and imposed obligations contributing to balanced and open conditions of competition. This includes, inter alia: prohibit large platforms from discriminating in favour of their own services and to ensure third parties access to data generated by their own services on the platform. Here, too, Norway will work to safeguard the interests of Norwegian businesses and consumers in the preparation of the final regulation. The amending Directive on audiovisual media services, also called the AMT Directive, was adopted in 2018. The amending Directive updates the 2010 AMT Directive and contains many new and up-to-date rules that will shape Norwegian regulation of television and audiovisual ordering services in the coming years. In addition, the Directive imposes requirements on video-sharing platform services, i.e. services used to share user-generated content. YouTube is perhaps the most famous example. These are services that have not been subject to detailed regulation at EEA level in the past. Member States must require YouTube providers and other such services to implement measures for, inter alia: to protect minors from harmful contents. As we can say, this is the EU's first step towards a more detailed regulation of the major technological platforms. The amending Directive also contains, inter alia: two measures to promote European audiovisual content. One is a requirement that flow services, such as: Netflix, shall have a minimum of 30 pst. European content in its catalogues and its prominent location. The second is that Member States may impose an obligation on such actors to contribute to the financing of audiovisual productions. As announced in the State budget for 2020, we will propose that they invest a share of their turnover in Norwegian audiovisual productions. The amending Directive also contains a number of other provisions, including: enhanced requirements for the organisation of persons with disabilities, increased independence of the supervisory authorities in the field and increased flexibility for the viewing of television advertising. This Directive is EEA-relevant but is not yet incorporated into the EEA Agreement. The Directive requires major changes to the broadcasting legislation and the Ministry aims to promote a consultation note with proposals for the implementation of the amending Directive for the autumn. The digitisation of the economy means that today companies can have significant value creation in a country without being physically present. At the same time, the general rule of international tax rules is that the income of a company can be taxed only if it is physically present in the country. This raises issues affecting many countries and requires international solutions. A cooperation body in the OECD/G20 is working on a coordinated solution for international taxation, divided into two pillars. Pillar 1 is a new distribution of tax rights regardless of the physical presence of companies, with increased tax rights to market countries. Pilar 2 is about ensuring the minimum taxation of large multinational companies. Norway is actively participating in this work. The goal is to reach an agreement by the middle of 2021. The Biden administration has expressed support for this work and has proposed changes to its tax system which will entail a minimum rate of taxation for multinational companies. This increases the likelihood that we can achieve international consensus on common solutions. The digitisation provides increased opportunities for expression and a strengthened freedom of information, but also increases the amount of hot, hateful expressions, false news and disinformation. Journalists experience hot and threats, both physically and digitally. The same goes for part of those who choose to take an active part in the public vocabulary. A new study from the Media Authority, which was presented last week, shows that about one in ten have experienced some form of sheikane online. This means that, fortunately, most have not been exposed to such experiences, but the proportion is twice as high among the youngest age groups. And for those who experience hot and hateful expressions, this is of course very serious. Unfortunately, I have personal experience with this. In my case, it ended with a conviction against the threatening person, but I can sign – and I think many politicians can – that anger can be burdensome both as a politician and as a private person. But it's also a danger signal for democracy when four out of ten people who have been exposed to cyberjikans say they've become more careful to say their opinion. Furthermore, disinformation and false news are an increasing threat to democratic processes. Transparency and trust are fundamental to our democracy. We want to maintain the high trust that people have in the implementation of democratic elections in Norway. In June 2019, the government therefore launched an action plan aimed at strengthening the resilience to influence and hybrid threats in the implementation of municipal government and county elections that year. Prior to the year’s roll-out and merger elections, new concrete measures are being developed. The democratic role of the editorial media in journalism lies, in particular, in two premises: firstly, that they are editorially independent, from both authorities, owners and other actors. Secondly, they operate according to publicist principles of relativity and source criticism, so that we can all use the information we receive as a basis for our own formation of opinion. Today, we are seeing some developments that could threaten the open and free debate on society on which our democracy is based and dependent – such as disinformation and influence operations, the emergence of conspiracy theories, hatred and anger in social media or the fear of monitoring or of re-establishing electronic tracks in the communications networks. Editor-led journalistic media that we can trust is an important part of the defence agency. It is therefore necessary to protect the Editorial Institute in order to ensure free and independent journalism. In 2020, the government adopted the new Media Liability Act. It's a law to which the media themselves have also been very positive. A main objective of the law is to create incentives for good management and control of editorial media based on journalistic norms and principles. This is done by giving the editor a particularly independent position and at the same time taking extended legal responsibility for the content. The law also contains rules on accountability for comments in comment fields and discussion forums related to editor-driven journalistic media and clarification of responsibility for owners, publishers and technical assistants. I believe that clear and predictable liability rules anchored in the editor's independent position help us to have access to high-quality journalism in the future. Various studies show that the general population has high confidence in Norwegian editor-driven journalistic media. And this has to be protected. Trust is a prerequisite for the ability of the editor-guided media to function as an essential counterweight to the dissemination of disinformation. The significance of this is not least what we've seen now under the pandemic. Over half of us have come across fake news about covid-19. It is on non- editorial websites, such as: Facebook, that most cases of fake news occur. Disinformation and false news are one of our most serious societal problems. We've seen how bad it can be if this kind of information gets attached. Denial of covid-19 can lead to death in the ultimate sense. Another example is the disinformation and false news of the presidential election last year in the United States, which helped QAnon to join the Congress. It showed us that disinformation and false news can be a threat to democracy itself. The new freedom of expression Commission shall discuss actions against the manipulation and weakening of public space confidence through disinformation, impact campaigns and false news. In this context, the Commission will also discuss actions to promote resilience and critical media understanding in the population. An increasingly complex media landscape makes greater demands on us as media users. Good critical media understanding is a prerequisite for gaining access to information and in a responsible and safe way of using and critically assessing media content. A key objective of media policy must therefore be that everyone should be able to acquire this competence – so that we can show digital judgment, so that we can understand a complex reality, so that we can distinguish opinions from facts and editorial and commercial content, so that we can reveal false news. The development of critical media awareness has become increasingly important in recent years in view of the enormous amount of content and sources that we are all exposed to every single day. The government wants to develop the skills we all need to be able to handle the complex media reality, which is so much of our everyday life. An important part of this work is to acquire knowledge about the critical media understanding of the population. This work has been well under way by media surveillance and has carried out two major surveys in recent years to identify the critical media awareness of the population. The studies show, inter alia: the ability to understand critical media relates to age and education. For example, younger people know more about privacy online and how algorithms work, while older people know more about ownership and funding of traditional media. This is the insight we use to develop non-performing measures aimed at priority groups. With the Knowledge promise of 2020, the government has strengthened its work on good media literacy in primary and secondary schools. It helps to strengthen the digital judgment of children and young people. Media surveillance is active in the dissemination of knowledge, advice and communication aimed at different groups of the population. Through events, educational arrangements, the development of tools and campaigns, children and young people, parents and grandparents are better equipped to meet the new media everyday. Today, digital is an integral part of the everyday life of children and young people. The pandemic has helped to push even more activities and more of the social contact into digital arenas. The starting point for government work in this area is that the network provides enormous positive opportunities – for social contact, learning, entertainment and creative development. At the same time, we know that digital activities and arenas can also expose children and young people to different risks. These may include exposure to pornography and violent content, content of self-harm or suicide, body pressure, hate perversions, disinformation and risk of net crime. The Communication on Children and Youth, presented on 19 March, therefore warned the government that a national strategy for secure digital growth should be developed. The Minister for Children, Family Affairs and Media Supervision shall have coordinating roles at government level and at the more practical level of the public. The aim is to facilitate coordinated, targeted and effective public efforts to safeguard the digital lives of children and young people. The Committee on Media Protection, which was presented on 15 March of this year, provides an important basis for further work. The committee shall have, inter alia: was responsible for identifying the background knowledge of the adverse effects of exposure to different types of media content and for designing alternative options to ensure better protection for children from harmful content in digital media. The committee recommends, inter alia: strengthening and extending critical media skills in schools and kindergartens and developing measures to increase the ability of senior officials to guide their children to the digital media reality, preferably in cooperation with the school community. The study also provides an updated overview of available research on adverse effects of exposure to different types of media content. This will be of great help in providing the basis for a more effective and evidence-based response through a national strategy. Demographic and social divides linked to the media people use can lead to information gaps, for example: by not employing individual groups of editor-driven media that have a common arena function in society. This may lead to a more fragmented public, increased risk of polarisation and echocambers. It may also result in some groups not being given sufficient information to make qualified choices. The media diversity accounts produced by the Media Regulatory Authority point to trends in such information gaps between different groups of the population. This development must be closely monitored in the future. The media diversity accounts also show that we do not know enough about the media use of different immigrant groups. This was also evident in the need to obtain information on covid-19 for all parts of the population. This is why we have now launched several studies to increase knowledge in this area. Among other things, we need to: study how different immigrant groups have access to information on covid-19. We also need to carry out a larger survey of media habits for different immigrant groups in general. It's been years since this was last done. And we need knowledge about this to know if we have a media policy that is relevant to different groups of immigrants. Digitalisation and globalisation provide changing media structures that affect the economic environment of media activities in Norway. As I have seen before, the Norwegian media are facing increasing competition from the major global players, such as Facebook, HBO, Netflix and Spotify. It places great demands on digitisation and product development in the Norwegian editor-driven media in the fight for Norwegian media consumption, the advertising market and the willingness to pay by users. The ever-increasing global competition and the transition to digital media consumption challenge the functioning of Norwegian media. Every year, media surveillance produces reports on the Norwegian media economy, providing information on developments in the competitive situation, the economy and the diversity of the media market. The overall picture is that TV activities increased revenue, while the revenues of radio activities and newspapers fell in 2019. However, the media industry is an industry with very different actors, and the variety of media activities is therefore great. The Covid-19 pandemic has strengthened the economic trends we have seen in Norwegian media in recent years: advertising revenue is falling, while user revenues are increasing, thus becoming increasingly important for the media economy. The Norwegian media have done a good job of developing their business models in line with the new market situation. A recently published report, ordered by the Nordic Council of Ministers on the effects of covid-19 on the Nordic news media, shows that the decline in digital advertising investment has been lowest in Norway. This is due, inter alia, to: that the media in this country had a strong position in the digital advertising market also ahead of the pandemic. Norwegian media also have the most positive development in terms of user payments: nearly twice as many Nordics as residents in our neighbouring countries pay for digital editorial content, and in Norway they pay three times as many as the average in Europe. It is a pleasure that the media have been growing in user income in recent years, but I am aware that this does not fully compensate for the fall in advertising revenue. Many media businesses experience impaired profitability, particularly as a result of increasing global competition and digitisation, but also as a result of a wide media diversity in Norway. This is a strength from a democratic perspective, but from a market perspective it implies tough competition for advertising crowns and users' money. In such a market situation, media policy must provide predictable frameworks that can enable the media to adapt to the market and new media practices, and develop products, solutions and strategies to fulfil their democratic function. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1838	Then the president believes that we unfortunately have to take a break in the presentation. It's a good theme, which requires that you get time for a proper completion and review. There'll be a break in the presentation, and then we'll take the vote, and then we'll come back to the presentation after the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1850	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. We shall begin with the remaining items from Thursday 27 April, Agenda No. Seventy-three.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1862	During the debate, Mr Hemdal has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose a change in the law so that it becomes the adult child himself who assesses what is best for him in matters relating to the adoption of adult children’.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1877	During the debate, the proposal in the recommendation was amended. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1894	The vote will continue on Monday 3 May, agenda No. Seventy-five.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1906	During the debate, Mr Wiborg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose the necessary legislative changes that will liquidate the curtailment of pensions with a civil status background.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. Red has announced support for the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1939	During the debate, Mr Wiborg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up a simplification and modernisation committee to review and propose changes to labour protection legislation. The aim of the changes is to make the legislation more user-friendly for businesses, trustees and employees. In addition, the government is asked to incorporate into the mandate of the sample to look at simplifications and changes that better facilitate a more flexible working life. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1961	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e1980	During the debate Arne Nävra put forward two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that environmental requirements are met in all requirements and specifications for the Nav tendering process that suppliers have to provide zero-emission cars for Group 2 cars.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that grants for the purchase of Group 1 cars by Nav are doubled in the purchase of zero-emission cars, and to make any necessary proposals to ensure this.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2020	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Arild Grande on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party, proposal No 3, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. Three from Red. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government asks the government to outlaw the liability of employers in the event of a breach of the protection clause of the sixth paragraph of Section 13 of the Equality and Discrimination Act.» The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2049	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Swedish Government asks that Section 13 of the Act on Equality and the Prohibition of Discrimination be included in Section 13-1 of the Act on Protection against Discrimination.» Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2066	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose amendments to the Working Environment Act so that employers' responsibility for preventing and preventing sexual harassment in the workplace is clearly stated in the Working Environment Act §4-3, and to ensure that reference is made to the harassment provisions of the Equality and Discrimination Act in the same paragraph.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2092	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2263	It's voted on in § 9-4. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2277	It is quoted above I, § 8-9, third paragraph, first sentence, § 8-48, second paragraph, and § 8-55, first paragraph, c. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2291	The rest of I and II are voted on. The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2306	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2320	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2396	The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2408	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2422	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. Case No. 8–11 were interpellations. The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1 to 7 on today's map. Case No. 1–4 is the second time legal proceedings and concerns legal decisions 99 up to and including 102. There are no comments. Thus, the law of the Storting has been passed on the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2443	A total of 17 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It may the proposals No 1-4, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 5-11, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 12-17, from Sylvi Listhaug on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 17 were submitted after the deadline specified. Paragraph 40 of the Rules of Procedure will therefore not be put to the vote. The representative of Trond Helleland has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2462	I would like to give an explanation of vote on behalf of the three government parties. If we start with the proposals from the Progress Party, the three parties will vote in favour of the proposal No. 12 and 13, but assuming that the independent review referred to is the Corona Commission. This has been clarified with the party's invading leader, so I expect it to be all right. With regard to the proposals from the Labour Party and the Centre, we will vote in favour of proposal No. Secondly, and we will also vote in favour of proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox To the extent that this vote on where this matter is to be dealt with comes up here, or if it comes under the record, I signal that the government parties believe that in relation to this preliminary report – where a new part is to come and it is to become part of a down-log – it is the right form of treatment. So we don't want to send that matter to the control committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2471	The representative of Greece then made clear the position of the government parties. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14 and 16, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate various causes of overrepresentation of infectious pressures among the immigrant population in the context of the further evaluation of pandemic management. Particular consideration is given to the relationship between travel activities and infection.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider the lifting of restrictions on entry for persons who can demonstrate with evidence from their country’s authorities that they have completed their vaccination.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2495	There is a vote on proposal No. 15 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider further restrictive measures to reduce travel in and out of Norway to areas with a persistent high risk of infection.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2512	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to entrust the Corona Commission with the task of examining the capacity challenges in the healthcare system, including the aftermath and consequences that need to be addressed in the healthcare system after the pandemic.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to entrust the Corona Commission with the task of examining the links between financing solutions, such as price financing, and the preparedness of health businesses.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2537	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7-11, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Corona Commission to investigate the consequences of part-time use, rental and widespread use of temporary workers in the healthcare system on preparedness and ability to handle the pandemic.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Corona Commission to investigate the long-term negative consequences of government pandemic management in the most severely affected parts of the world of work’.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Corona Commission to investigate the impact of the pandemic on services in the municipalities, with particular regard to those that have been prioritised away or down, and the consequences for those who need the services.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The government is asked to entrust the Corona Commission with the task of examining whether the control of employers' management of imports has been sufficient.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Corona Commission to investigate whether the social arrangements linked to the coronary pandemic have ensured sufficient assistance and what serious shortcomings the regimes have had to overcome in the event of a similar crisis later’.» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2577	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy requests the Presidency of the Grand Duchy to submit proposals for the mandate and composition of its own Commission to review the Norwegian vaccine strategy related to the coronary epidemic.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2594	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to carry out an independent investigation of the government’s work to ensure that Norway’s population is vaccinated and to compare it with comparable countries outside the EU such as Israel and the United Kingdom.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to launch an independent review of the strategy for the release of vaccines, including priorities and pace’.» Right, Left, Christian People's Party and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2618	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to ensure that the Corona Commission makes a thorough assessment of the need for bed capacity and intensive preparedness in healthcare companies and, in this context, to promote recommendations on how much capacity and staffing should be increased in order to equip hospitals to meet any upcoming pandemics.’ The Progress Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2635	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 4 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Corona Commission makes a thorough assessment of the situation of local authorities and local infectious agents under the pandemic and to propose the necessary measures for adequate recruitment and stabilisation in this part of the service.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the setting up of an expert group to review the impact of the coronary apathy and the measures for the protection of the elderly and disabled and to make concrete proposals on how action should be strengthened in the future.’ The right, the Progress Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Greens and the Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2659	The President will propose that the statement be annexed to the minutes. During the debate, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have proposed that the statement be sent to the Control and Constitutional Committee. There are then two proposals for further treatment, and the size of the population goes to voting over the treatment procedure. Does anyone ask for the floor for an explanation of vote? The representative of Greece has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2667	It was so much to keep in order instead, so I'm sorry, but it's about proposal No. 17, from the Progress Party, who had arrived too late for treatment. For the government parties, it's not a problem if we get a vote on it. We want to vote against, but as the Progress Party wants to get that vote over, we think it would have been reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2672	Is President Trond Helleland right in saying that he is proposing that proposal No. 17 Taken to Feeding? It would have been natural for the Progress Party to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2677	The Committee would like to see the Commission's proposals put forward by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on a proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2682	This concerns proposal No. 17, which has been delivered almost three blocks after the time. Rigmor Aasrud has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2689	I would recommend that the representatives of the Labour Party vote against voting on a proposal that has been late. I would also recommend them to vote against when it comes to reality, if the proposal to take it up to voting would have a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2694	We are voting on the proposal from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities that proposal No. 17 is to be taken for parturition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2704	There is a vote on proposal No. 17 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to stop the financial compensation of EEA citizens residing in other EEA countries until control regimes have been established to ensure that no one receives full compensation from Norwegian taxpayers while at the same time having income from work or other support schemes in the country in which they are located. This is in order to ensure a more equal control regime as for Norwegian beneficiaries of sickness benefits and daily allowances.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2717	The President will propose that the statement be annexed to the minutes. During the debate, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have proposed that the statement be sent to the Control and Constitutional Committee. There are then two proposals for further treatment, and the size of the population then goes to voting on the method of treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2730	The President's motion for a resolution has thus been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2742	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2796	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2901	Council of State Abid Q. Raja gets the floor to continue the presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2906	It is tempting to start again, but I will continue where I was. I had just talked about the market situation, and in such a market situation, media policy must contribute to a predictable framework. And the statement continues as follows: We will facilitate a sustainable media industry, including: through a forward-looking, predictable and accurate State instrument. This government has taken a number of steps to ensure high-quality Norwegian journalistic content and a variety of publications across the country on different platforms as digitalisation and media market developments take place. I'll mention someone: We introduced, as the first country in Europe, VAT exemptions for electronic news and timeliness media in 2016. This enabled the media industry to deploy the necessary digital transformation shock and is a contributing factor to the Nordics' willingness to pay for digital news journalism. In 2019, the exemption was extended to electronic journals and books, and with effect from 1 July 2020, the VAT exemption for newspapers was extended to cover in-depth journalism. We made the production grant, which is the largest direct media support scheme, platform neutral in 2014. This was a necessary modernisation in line with the progressive digitisation of news production. We set up the Innovation and Development Grant Scheme to stimulate editorial, content-oriented innovation and the development of news and timeliness media in 2018. We have secured commercial public broadcasting through the agreement with TV 2. The agreement is unique in an international context. The agreement obliges TV 2 to invest annual amounts in news, programmes for children and young people as well as Norwegian film and television dramas. I am very happy with the NRK, but the agreement ensures that the NRK meets healthy competition. And it's nice for us all that TV 2 has a strong news environment in Bergen with people who can see the world with slightly different eyes than those who sit in the Oslo pot. The government is responsible for a significant increase in public resource use in the media field. For the financial year 2021, it is granted in excess of 7 billion. kr for various media purposes. This includes $6.35 billion. NOK to NRK and up to 135 million. For TV 2. We include the value of the VAT exemption for newspapers and electronic news services, which is calculated at 2.3 billion. In 2021, Norway used considerable resources to maintain and develop the Norwegian media diversity. I have not calculated how much the state pays on average of the salary of Norwegian journalists. That's not interesting either. Media support must be seen as an essential investment in the infrastructure of democracy. In 2019 we presented the media support message, Lack and arm's length distance – Media policy for a new time. It contained a number of recommendations to which the Storting mainly joined. The government has worked extensively on media support, in line with the recommendations of the Media Support Communication. Many of the recommended measures have now been implemented or are in the process of being implemented. Let me mention someone: The majority adopted the Media Aid Act last year, which entered into force on 1 January 2021. The Media Support Act shall facilitate the diversity of editorially-driven journalistic media across the country by contributing to a predictable financial framework for media activities and enhanced independence in the management of media support. The Media Support Act establishes a model with a four-year management signal for media support, including the financial framework for the NRC. The four-year governance signal gripped means that all media dependent on public support know how much the government will contribute over the next four years. This gives predictability to the media and makes it possible to plan. An additional dimension is that, every four years, the government will provide an overall assessment of the use of economic instruments in the media field. This makes it possible to see different actions in context and to develop a comprehensive media policy. We have shifted the funding model for the NRK from licensing funding to financing from the state budget. This is a modernisation of Norway. By funding from the budget, we have been able to liquidate a comprehensive administrative apparatus. The NRK is one of the country's most important institutions. The four-year governance signals for the NRK’s financial framework provide the company with financial predictability. In addition, we were concerned to avoid the NRK becoming a caste ball in the annual budget negotiations at Stortinget. This is important for the independence of the NRK. And I'm glad that the funding of the NRK now has a fairer social profile. In the past, each household had to pay the same licence regardless of the level of income and the number of people living in the household. When the payment for the NRK is made above the tax note, the redistribution mechanisms embedded in the tax system are the subject of the redistributive mechanism. We strengthen the local media through the redistribution of the press support. As mentioned above, Covid-19 has been particularly demanding for the local media. Then it's a good thing that last year we increased the grant to local media at the same time. In 2020, we increased the allocation of the production grant by 40 million. DKr and granted nearly 358 million. kr to the scheme. Of the increase of 40 million. NOK 30 million went by. kr to the local authorities. In the State budget for 2021, the appropriations for the production grant are continued and it is granted in the year close to 370 million. kr distributed by around 150 media. The Ministry of Culture is now reviewing the production grant scheme. The aim is to ensure further security of compliance with the objectives of diversity and quality in the media throughout the country. We also want to review the legislation so that it is even better adapted to digital publishing. The revision of the regulation on production grants for news and news media shall, after consultation is planned during the autumn of 2021 and shall take effect from the financial year 2022. The digital transformation is especially demanding for the smallest media. The funding for the innovation and development grant scheme was increased from 10 million in 2020. NOK 20 million. kr. The increase will continue in 2021, and this year 21 million will be granted. kr in innovation support over 40 pst. goes to small, local media. We have adopted amendments to the support scheme for local audio and video media enabling local radios to apply for operational support for digitisation. We have also raised the aid ceiling to ensure that digitisation projects can be implemented. We have facilitated the transition from FM to digital radio. This has meant that the whole population has access to a wider range of radio channels than ever before. At the same time, we have extended the FM local radio concessions by five years, even 2026. Local radio is an important part of the media diversity in Norway, and we see the value of having enough time to implement the technology shift. Here it is also important to consider that local radios are among the media that have been hit most financially under covid-19. The four-year management system for the financial instruments in the media field thus facilitates comprehensive solutions. We want to see the appropriations for direct media support, NRK and commercial general programming in the context because we believe this gives the best possible return in terms of media diversity. The Government will present in its budget proposal for 2023 an overall review of the media policy objectives and instruments in the light of developments in the media sector. At the same time, we will propose the amount of the long-term financial framework for media support over the next four-year period from 2023 to 2026, for both the NRC and the other media support. On the basis of the proposal for a four-year management signal, there shall be a broad reference to the financial assumptions for media activities in Norway. The Covid-19 pandemic showed that we are able to deal with it unforeseeable, even though we build more predictability into the system. The work on media policy review is well under way. We will assess the NRK’s contribution to media pluralism and impact on competition in the media market. We will review the aid schemes and assess whether the money should be distributed differently or whether there is a need for new schemes. We will also assess whether the State will continue an agreement with a commercial public broadcaster when the current agreement expires in 2023. We're in dialogue with media organisations about how they think economics and user figures will develop. We have asked the NRK to describe how technological changes, new media practices, and not least the global struggle for the time and attention of the Nordics affect the NRK's competitive situation. We are doing this in order to have the best possible decision-making basis for the economic framework for the NRC in the new period. In addition, for the autumn, we will add the NRK poster, which describes the NRK's public broadcasting mission, to open consultation. This is an extensive work, but in this way we ensure the best possible basis for a fact-based debate on the future media policy. This statement shows that the government is taking media policy very seriously. We want to ensure that we will continue to have a diversity of news production across the country, provided by strong, independent media businesses. And we want a living public conversation between informed citizens who are engaged in democracy. Through the media policy work we have done, we do and will continue to do so in the future, and through the work of the media sector itself, we are, after all, well equipped to meet the future. We show our way in promoting freedom of expression, freedom of the press and the diversity of the media. We have to keep doing that. With this, I would like to thank you for your attention and look forward to a good debate in two days' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2965	The President proposes that the Minister of Culture and Gender Equality’s statement on freedom of expression and freedom of the press and on the state of play and the achievement of the objectives of media policy in Norway be discussed at a later meeting in the United Kingdom. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2981	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e2986	I was mildly surprised that the Minister of Culture did not spend his entire speaking time, but I am grateful. During the treatment of new weapons law in Stortinget, Innst. 146 L for 2017-2018, became the majority of the following proposals: ‘The government asks the government to assess how arms owners affected by the ban on certain types of semi-automatic rifles can be compensated.’ When we discussed this proposal in the context of a new arms law, the Committee pointed out that hunters who are subject to the ban and who must dispose of their legally acquired weapons, in practice without the possibility of having these weapons sold, were expected to have a compensation scheme. The government in this case shows that they have assessed it and concluded that no such scheme will be put in place. I leave it to the government parties themselves to explain it. Let me just stress that the Workers' Party believes that the prohibition Stortinget adopted in connection with the processing of new weapons law was correct. Thematics around the ban on semi-automatic weapons with high damage potential have been in force for many years, and there are heavy societal considerations behind the Stortinge ban. The Labour Party also considers that it was reasonable for the government to put the proposal for a one-year transitional period in the drawer and that it had recently ensured that the transitional period was maintained as planned, to three years. Nevertheless, the Workers' Party believes that it is somewhat rigid and unnecessary to say no to compensation for those affected by the ban. Although the weapon is rightly prohibited in a new weapons law, it was purchased when it was legal. This is mostly about hunters who have had legal weapons for hunting, and who will have great difficulties selling the weapon. I must also say that it seems unmusical to think that hunters should sell the weapons that we have adopted a ban on in our own country, abroad. As other parties point out, we have also been told that, in reality, there is only a question of the destruction of the weapon as the only alternative – a weapon you have used in its time, in line with the law, a lot of money to buy. The Labour Party therefore supports the proposal for a proposal for a compensation scheme and for the government to return to the Stortinget with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3004	The President can reassure the representative Henriksen that Council of State Raja spent about his entire speaking time, but most of it was before voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3009	I fully understand that a ban on semi-automatic weapons is causing great disadvantage to the owners who are being hit. But this issue has been on the agenda since the terrorist attack in 2011. There are heavy societal considerations that lie behind the ban and justify it. So it's important to remember that there are completely extremely liberal temptations to get rid of or dispose of weapons that are being hit. Earlier this year we adopted additional deadlines for the disposal of weapons. The vast majority of lawyers who know this subject will be quite clear that there is no need to provide compensation in cases like this. But then, politically promising replacements and compensations in the east and west are certainly both comfortable and comfortable, especially when you are in opposition. It is particularly easy to do so when one is also exempt from all economic gravity and budgetary processes that usually accompany such use of money. As a government party, we could probably join this round dance and promised compensation, but sometimes it is up to us, as depositors, to take a position that is in principle correct even if it is unpopular. We have a responsibility to also focus on considerations other than those that are politically opportune and short-term. One thing is the economics, it's not like a compensation here would break the country's economic backbone in some way, but there's something that we also have to consider about justice and non-discrimination. What we do today creates precedents, and it may make future prohibitions more difficult and more expensive if you go in and compensate each time. So it is a precedent that has unintended consequences. It is often the trend of these representative proposals, they often seem unwarranted, slightly hasty and, in any case, unfunded. Today there is a potential for discrimination in the future. It's at least right, and I think the other government parties, too, are very sceptical about it. That being said, when the majority now decides to give away money without there being any real reason for it on the part of the state, at least this must be remembered in the budgetary proceedings: put funds into their alternative budgets, that must be the call, because now expectations are being created, and they must be met.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3020	You can have a lot of opinions about the Arms Act. The progress party was in government when the law was promoted. It doesn't necessarily mean that it's part of our primary policy. But what is general propriety is that when we introduce laws that have retroactive effect and affect people financially, it's a responsibility that we actually have to follow. Then you can discuss back and forth legally whether it is invasive enough, in this case, given the money that this costs those who put with the weapons that become illegal. The fact is that innocent people are hit, and then there's part of it that the state is to be held back from the fact that the laws that we are making with retroactive force are going to have economic effects on people out there. I record that the representative Frölich chooses to be a little martyr for the Ministry of Finance, and you have to be. It has an economic cost when imposing a ban — it should be — that has retroactive effect and that affects people out there. That is why the Progress Party is involved in the formation of a majority in favour of this proposal. It is also the case that, to the extent that it creates precedents, it creates a precedent for the future to be careful when introducing legislation that has retroactive effect and that affects innocent people in this way. So the Progress Party can stand by and defend what we agree to today, because it is an important principle that I think should be a matter of course. You can mean what you want about the Arms Act. We record that the decision that has been taken is taken, but at least we have to deal with those who are completely innocent in an economically difficult situation because of the decisions taken by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3031	Property rights are strong here on land. That's good, because the security of what we own is essential to avoid injustice and conflict. When the arms laws were changed in 2018, it was as if respect for the right of ownership had been abruptly lifted in any party other than the Center Party. Suddenly, certain weapons were to be banned without good reason. It was about semi-automatic hunting rifles that are suitable for just hunting, but not for sports shooting. This ban would have retroactive effect at all costs without any compensation. It means that people who have legally bought expensive weapons for legal purposes would hand them in to the state for destruction if they didn't sell them. The objection from us in the Center Party was clear: this is unruly and disrespectful. Furthermore, if the bulk of the population here to countries thinks that exactly the hunting weapons were about, were irresponsible to have in Norwegian homes, why was it possible for the same bulk of the population if the weapons were sold for purposes other than hunting here to land or abroad? That's how they thought the situation would be resolved. Right-wing boast that the hunters have had plenty of time to sell their weapons, but it does not help to get good time to sell something that is in practice extremely difficult to sell. This is for information about semi-automatic hunting weapons that no sports shooter will be interested in, and selling abroad is far from easy. In practice, most arms owners would lose property without compensation. Therefore, during the legislative process in Stortinget in 2018, the Senterpartiet submitted a proposal to set up a compensation scheme, but we were standing alone on it. So the Labour Party and the Advance Party voted against that time, but at the same time they presented a non-binding wording on a possible compensation scheme that the Progress Party itself, with its many Ministers of Justice, has not broken up to follow up. Now they're in opposition, and as in a miracle, they're part of our proposal to provide compensation for those who are under ban with retroactive force. The Labour Party has also supported this in the Judicial Committee this time. We appreciated that. Most of the late is of course better than never, so we appreciate that our proposal is finally getting multiple numbers in Stortinget. But why in all the world was it necessary to create so much insecurity, so long, for a group of hunters and gun owners? The ban will come into force soon. Therefore, I expect the government to work very quickly when the marshaller from Stortinget finally arrives. A compensation system must be created to ensure that people are adequately paid for the weapons they have to surrender, and this system must be unbureaucratic and easy to use. People become deprived of property in a country where respect for property rights must continue to be great.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3050	The new Arms Act introduces a ban on semi-automatic rifles originally designed for fully automatic operation or for military or police purposes. These are firearms with very high damage potential and should not be in circulation beyond what is strictly necessary. Since firearms have a long life span, a ban that would only apply to future permits would have limited effect. Therefore, the prohibition also applies to weapons already acquired. In the request decision No: 529 on 8 March 2018, the government was asked to assess how the owners of such weapons could be compensated. The Government concluded that no compensation mechanism should be introduced. I refer to the prohibition as a type of intervention that does not trigger liability for the State. Therefore, a compensation scheme could provide a precedent for establishing similar arrangements in other prohibitions, which is unfortunate. Transitional rules have also been provided to reduce the disadvantage of the prohibition. The ban has been known since March 2018 and will only enter into force on 1 June 2024. It is also worth noting that the weapons covered by the ban have different values. Individual assessment of compensation would therefore be very resource-intensive to be administered by the police. I point out that the question of compensation was also addressed by Stortinget as late as December 2020. In examining the State budget for 2021, the Stortinget suspended the request decision No. 529 from 2018. I believe that nothing has changed since the majority of the population decided. I can understand, like the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, that the ban could lead to a disadvantage for some of those who own such weapons today. Since the ban on semi-automatic rifles does not trigger liability, I believe we should be careful to introduce a compensation scheme. I therefore recommend that the draft representative should not be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3065	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3070	In this case, there are differences of opinion as to whether it should have been a prohibition or not. We don't have to take that discussion. But today, when we have the problem in front of us, whether or not to introduce compensation for those who are going to have to deliver the weapons they might have obtained for 15 000 kroner, plus/minus, that's about large sums, it boils down to what's right and reasonable. And of course, it's fair and reasonable to compensate for financial losses that are inflicted on people who have acquired something legally, and who have used it for legal purposes, as this is what this is about. What I'm asking is, because it's likely that there will be multiples in this case at Stortinget, and the government is fighting against – is: Will the government follow up the decision on the collapse quickly and simply to ensure that this group gets the compensation they're entitled to?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3077	With reference to a debate earlier today on the follow-up to the Gjørv Commission, I am very surprised that some people today argue that these weapons should be in circulation and allowed in Norway, but now leave it. It is such that a government must of course follow the decisions taken by the Stortinget, so this is about assessing how a scheme should be, given that no weapon is the same. What the Center Party is proposing here is a bureaucratic system that takes from the police resources that should have been used to fight and prevent crime. You have to go through this, find an arrangement and also find money in the budget. We have some time, because the entry into force is in 2024.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3085	With the great government having had to add bureaucrats and use consultants during their government period, I don't see it as a big problem that the police have to use some resources to create a compensation scheme for people who tend to receive financial compensation for property they have actually obtained legally. When it comes to implementation, it must be possible to find reasonable unbureaucratic ways of doing this. When the option was that this group didn't get anything, which it was up to today and before the decision to collapse, it's unlikely that the government would go into the matter and look at what kind of possibilities exist to actually facilitate an unbureaucratic and simple system that could most benefit from. I ask the Council of State again: is there the will of the government to ensure such an unbureaucratic system?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3094	In my world, politics is about prioritizing and not least about prioritizing the most important thing first – this is not the most important thing first. Here you give good opportunities to those who have acquired this type of weapon legally, you have long been notified that they are being banned, and there are very good reasons for it. When the centre party, and probably a majority in this Chamber, nevertheless chooses to vote in favour of this proposal, and the representative says there are probably unbureaucratic and simple ways to do this, and perhaps even cheaper ways to do it, I would like to accept suggestions for that. Our work, of course, is to follow the decision of Storting. How this is to be done, I don't have any opinion about.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3103	I expect that, among other things. Norway’s Hunters and Fishermen’s Association can make a sense of how this can be done. Now there are unlikely many different opinions about whether this ban was reasonable, but once it was agreed, the government cannot, in my opinion, boast that it was given so much time that everything would be taken care of because of it. This is about a type of hunting rifle that is not suitable for shooting sports. I have been involved in sports shooting myself, and I know that there is another type of rifle, so one cannot sell them to that type of environment, even if they can buy them. They can buy them legally. So it's okay that the kind of environment has access to these weapons, but law-abiding hunters shouldn't have it. That's where it's creeping up for us in the Center Party, because we know that the vast majority of Norwegian arms owners are law-abiding, capable people who handle their weapons in good ways. But that a criminal madman goes crazy with a rifle with which he has done illegal things is a matter for himself. It shall not affect all legal arms owners that some few are criminals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3110	I'm very, very happy that a large majority in this room do not agree with the Central Party on this issue. This type of weapon is very harmful, and they get into their hands on the outside, they do a lot of damage. We know all about that. Then you can choose to ignore it and the advice you've received on that occasion – it hasn't been done by the bulk of the population. I'm absolutely sure the Hunter and Fisher League can give good advice. I'm a little more uncertain about how cheap those advices are, but we have to get advice from those who believe something about it, when we're going to make a system. As I said, we have given some time, that Stortinget has decided that it will not be implemented until 2024.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3117	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3138	With the support of the Workers' Party, the Government, with the Right and Advance Party, introduced the so-called "Near Police Reform" in 2016. At government.no, we can read that ‘The aim of the reform of the police is to ensure the presence of a competent and effective local police force, where the population lives’. After five years, this target has not been achieved. Instead, research, statistics and investigations by police officers themselves point to the fact that the police have become more and less distant from people. What would become a near-police reform has instead become a remote police reform. The centre party believes it is time for the Right-Registration to take seriously the negative consequences of this centralization. If the government is to cope with the challenges that have been created for the local police, it must start with a recognition of the problem. I am therefore interested to hear what negative consequences the government see that the reform has brought. Research from, inter alia: Police high school shows that police have been significantly centralised, as is confirmed by a number of police-related actors. Researchers from the Institute of Labour Research at OsloMet wrote last summer: «We wonder how the police can be centralised and specialised while at the same time being in line with the ten basic principles and a locally anchored police force?» Centralisation is pervasive in districts and urban areas where people live. It's following several leads. It's the centralization of people, of power and of resources. This has led to impaired preparedness, reduced police capacity to work prevention, and damaged research environments. Local police have moved away from the community and into central functions and large systems. More than 120 cannibal offices have been closed. Some 1,800 police officers have been removed from the area. 230 police stations. Several janitorial offices shall share scarce resources across large guard areas. In reality, large geographical areas stand without police guards much of the week. Local police stations that were once independent and were able to control their own police resources and make the necessary local priorities are now subject to a number of intermediaries and have been at the bottom of the ranks of a top-ranking organisation. Important decisions about local conditions are no longer taken by a local loner who knows his community, but is centralized by people who are further away from everyday life. It is the centralization of power, and it leads to the centralization of financial resources. Denmark and Sweden have also tried the same methods as the government, and have done a lot to centralize the police in the past. After the popular elections in 2019, a new government came into being that has a pronounced desire for a police force near the peoples of the whole country. Now the Danes are going to build 20 new police stations and employ hundreds of policemen in community communities all over the country. Central police bureaucracy needs to be streamlined. At NRK.no, April 22, 2021, it said: ‘More officers believe that the police department has become worse in its area after the near police reform. They believe that the rural population is being deprived of its priorities.’ And on the other hand, ‘However, the human beings do not want to stand up and say it, since they will then feel disloyal, and fear it may lead to reactions higher up in the system.’ Here, the NRK must use anonymous sources to generate concerns from the policemen who sit tight on everyday life to people, and who see that centralisation goes beyond the police service locally. Even communication on how the police operate locally shall be centralized by PR people in a central function that does not know what their daily lives are like. In the same NRK case, the head of the Police Union says that the feedback from these soldiers is far from unique. He says, ‘The clear feedback from all 12 local team leaders is that the police have not come closer to the population in the district in which they are located. And it has to be taken seriously." The centre party is not alone in our criticism of evolution. In the Easter, many years of regional man Andreas Nilsen, head of the Mid-Trom County of Lensmann, ended. In the Volkebladet we could read: ‘He would hardly have done that if it wasn’t for the centralisation press and a police development he doesn’t at all agree with.’ Former police officer in Porsgrund, Andreas Cleve, wrote in yesterday's edition of Telemarksavias: ‘Foreign municipalities and pig-grown strips are completely ribbed for everything called Länsmannskontoret and police officers with local knowledge that no one else has!’ Police officer Eirik Djupnes at the Finnish County of Lensmann in Troms wrote in New Troms in January: ‘After a while, power and resources are shifted towards central struts. Once again, the population in the districts has a lower offer. Leaders with decision-making powers and professional environments will be removed from the population. The proximity of the audience is decreasing.’ Those who lose out on this centralisation are local community residents all over Norway, who get a worse police service, where prevention cannot be given priority, where the investigation is weakened, and where the police are further away when something happens. There are local communities as in the Gudbrand Valley, where many fear preparedness and prevention. There you can see that the fire service in e.g. Skåk and Lom are faced with an increasing responsibility when the police do not show up. Former Gudbrandsdal police district has fewer employees in April 2020 compared to 2015, with a total decrease of approximately 30 employees. The Gudbrandsdalstinget, consisting of elected representatives from 13 municipalities in the Gudbrandsdalen and the Inland County Municipality, is very concerned about police preparedness. In an opinion of April 2021 they say that they: ‘supports changes in the creation of major professional environments in some areas. But we cannot accept a centralisation of police resources at the expense of preparedness in the districts." And on the other hand, ‘Gudbrandsdalstingen is very concerned about the situation It is particularly worrying to hear that police employees feel that they have lost valuable time to do preventive work.’ [[...]] The losers also live in communities in our largest cities, such as Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim. Head of Police Station and Head of GDE in Bergen, Morten Ørn, said to the NRK in August that ‘Near police reform leads to less contact with young people’. In Bergen, Åsane, Fana and Fuldingsdalen have lost 33 employees since 2015. In Oslo police district, Majorstua and Bærum have lost 177 employees. Around Stavanger, Sola, Randaberg and Rennesøy have lost 23 employees. Around Trondheim, Kläbu, Malvik and Melhus have lost 39. In many old police districts, there are now fewer police officers than before the reform. The so-called near-police reform also states that there should be better capacity to investigate criminal acts, but the Riks lawyer's comments on criminal proceedings in the police for 2020 point to concern because the percentage of information goes down. From 2016 to 2020 it decreased from 53 to 49 p.m., which the Riksadvokat considers not to be acceptable. On 5 April 2018, Stortinget adopted the following: ‘The government is asking for a real strengthening of the offices of local officials that remain after the implementation of the police reform.’ Nevertheless, the government has systematically dropped the remaining LEN's office for people, resources and authority. It is not possible to see that practice in line with the Storting decision of 2018. I also addressed this in 2020 with the Minister of Justice in another interview. Lier was then used as an example, a central municipality in the East, with 25 000 inhabitants where the Länsmannskontoret has been built up. It was reduced from 24 full-time jobs to two jobs with an opening time of two days a week. 9-14. Now, a little over a year later, the opening time has been reduced from two days to one day a week from noon. 9-14. In June 2009, the VG had an article stating that the Nord-Odal Länsmannskontoret had only open eight hours in a week. It was three hours more than it is now in Lier. The party leader of the Right, Erna Solberg, commented on the matter as follows: ‘Some of the basic police service disappears. This is tragicomic». So a few years later, the Right has changed its mind about what's tragiomatic. The Lensmannskontoret in Nord-Odal – and so far South Odal, nearby – is now closed, and five hours of opening in Lier is quite fine. This is not a real strengthening of e.g. the staffing office in Stange, where the office has now moved from 15 employees to one employee and has moved from a full crew in their own building to one police officer who will be in the office of the City Hall. There is also no real reinforcement when the police at Koppang have been halved from six to three policemen, or when Rena is reduced from six to two policemen. Unfortunately, centralisation has also led to few patrols over large regions and to an increase in response time. Nine out of 12 police districts do not now meet their own response time requirements in one or more categories, i.e. by 2020. I want to finish where I started: the goal of the so-called near-police reform was the presence of a competent and effective local neighbourhood police where the population lives. What negative consequences does the government see that the police have become more centralised instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3232	The representative raises several important issues relating to the future development and organisation of the police, how resources are to be allocated and prioritised in the police district, and in particular who influences and implements actions affecting the security of people and the provision of services in the community. At the same time, I must say that with some wonder I note that several of these issues and also other issues related to the police reform were very recently debated in depth in the context of the Stortinge handling of the police communication now at the end of February. The government is now following the decisions taken by the Stortinget. I have also recently answered a lot of written questions on the same topic. I feel that we have a common goal of having a good local police force, and the most important thing is that we have a people who feel safe. I am happy to record that this is the case. The 2020 survey of the police shows that a total of 94 pst. by the residents feel safe. In addition, trust in the police is higher than it has been in 12 years. One important learning point from the survey is that people have higher confidence in the police in cities than they do in smaller municipalities. It takes the government seriously, and in 2021, the police districts are therefore prioritised with 400 police officers who will be permanently employed at the extreme, almost people, when the police's extra effort in the coronary apathy is finished. Police districts by police districts get renewed their car park. Several types of crime can now be reported digitally. We have put in place better solutions for passport orders and mobile offices in the form of a mobile passport office to carry out the passport orders. The police may also have offices in municipal premises if the police and the municipality agree that it is appropriate to ensure local presence. It is true that through the police reform, specialised trade unions have been built up and that it may have been at the expense of local presence. We're working on that. According to the Police Directorate, the geographical holdings have received a significantly higher proportion of the increase in police year-on-year than the functional units during 2020. 76 pst. the increase in police year 2020 has led to the strengthening of geographical holdings, while 24 pst. have been reinforced by functional units and management support staff. The construction of stronger professional environments at the centre and the creation of joint functions that increase police capacity have also led to the fact that many of the tasks that were previously done locally can now be solved centrally in the district and by wider professional environments that can provide better quality services. Crime doesn't stop at the municipal border. Events are handled to a small extent by moving out of an office, and alerts and alerts are maintained throughout the country mainly by patrols that are part of duty plans to cover the whole day and week. Modern police work requires a different interaction between different resources in the police district than before. This means that, especially in the event of serious incidents, much greater resources can be allocated to dealing with a matter than could be done by the local waitress prior to the reform. In order to strengthen cooperation between police and local authorities on joint actions in the area of prevention and preparedness, the aim is to establish police councils with all the municipalities of the country. Police are obliged to initiate such cooperation. The system is voluntary for the municipalities, but I would urge all the rapporteurs who have chosen not to enter into such an agreement, many of them representing the inter-pellant party, to do so. Furthermore, as part of the reform, the police have established their own police contacts for all municipalities in the country. All municipalities should also be offered an agreement with the police on services in the municipality. In other words, police districts are significantly better equipped to handle major and serious issues, including in small places. Now the local labour office has access to special services that either contribute to or take over the work. It wouldn't have been possible with old organization. By taking turns on the overall capacities of the police district and by relieving other resource-intensive tasks, the local police in small municipalities can instead give priority to the resources of their community to work with crime prevention and local cooperation with municipalities. In conclusion, I would say that I am a little surprised at the form of the interpellation. It is true that we have been clear from the government that we have wanted a police reform, and we are very pleased to have implemented the police reform. It is the Center Party that constantly and several times every week criticises the police – the way the police work and the way the police are organized. Then it would be much better if the Senter Party promoted a proposal on how to organise Norwegian police. At least the voters deserve to know before the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3260	It is nice that the Council of State answers the Storting when questions are asked, and as the Council of State also knows, the Centre Party has made a number of proposals on the police during this majority period. My question was what negative consequences the government sees, and I can't say that I heard a very clear answer to that. We in the Central Party are trying to listen to the feedback that comes from local teams, from the police, from municipalities, from rapporteurs who feel that their police service has become weaker. When the Gudbrandsdalstinget, which represents almost all the municipalities in the Gudbrandsdalen – even Lillehammer, which is a municipality of the city – and the Inland County Municipality, makes a strong statement that they are really concerned about the preparedness and prevention of their region, then it is something the Centre Party believes you have to listen to, instead of, as the Minister of Justice just did, asking rapporteurs who have refused to sign police contact agreements that are too bad to do so. Instead, she should listen to what's the reason it's too bad. The joint services of the police, the Directorate of Police and the ICT services of the police include, for example: It was reinforced by 720 annual works during the close police reform, but according to the police’s own capacity survey, there has not been a single additional patrol on the roads, even though the point of the police reform was that, allegedly, a police force that was more present in local communities would be on the wheel. We've got a police force that's not a close-up police force, but that's turned out to be a call-out police. The government may continue to paint this and pump money into the system, but the problem is that the system is rigged for centralization; power has been removed; authority has been transferred from local county officials' offices into the largest cities, into the main seats in the police districts, into joint functions. The Minister of Justice has still not responded at all to whether there is a type of structure that you want to look at to improve this situation, the unofficialisation of local public prosecutors as it is announced, among other things. to the NRK, the down-priority of smaller places that we hear over and over again. It's not going to solve itself by the government continuing to pump the system they've built, because it's the whole system that's the problem, that they've built a top-down police force, a police force where the funds disappear in bureaucracy, instead of getting local prevention, local investigation, emergency work in our districts for the benefit of the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3271	The interpellant did not hear that I was able to explain all the weaknesses of the reform. Then the interpellant may have missed out on the fundamentals of this matter, namely that I am in favour of the reform. I believe that the reform is very good and that the reform has produced very good results. I am not at all familiar with the police described. I hope in and of the corona also for the reason that is soon over, so that the Center Party can also travel around and meet the police districts, meet the units that they are against, people who work with intelligence, analysis and investigation in online patrols, people who are working to take over children online, and who say that they are detecting things today that they would never have done for one, two or three years ago, and tell them that they are going to have a completely different police force. I also hope to tell you who will take over the duties of the Police Directorate, who will give the police an order, who will have to follow up the police districts, how they would handle border patrols and the Korona now if they couldn't just do it through the Police Directorate, a director recommended by the Gjørv Commission. I'll get back to that, because the Central Party was active in a debate earlier today, but in several cases it turns out that they're opposed to parts of the follow-up to create a culture that can take responsibility, a culture that makes us stronger operating centres, for example, reaching the entire police district. I also explained how the geographical units have been strengthened – they have received 76 pst. of the increase last year – and how I mean in total that the reform is quite right to both prevent and detect crime as we see it today, and not least as we see it in time to come. So the answer is not to roll back the clock. The answer is not a total reorganization of the police. The answer is to continue working to strengthen all parts of the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3280	The Minister of Justice and Security recently stated in an article in the evening post that preparedness has never been better here in the country. I'm sure they'll ask where she is in the country. The tragic leap in Gjerdrum showed the importance of resources when accidents or incidents occur. Steps occurred in an area where both rescue helicopters, police helicopters, medical helicopters, hospitals, ambulances, police patrols and fire services with extraordinary capabilities were only minutes away. What if a similar serious incident had occurred in the brook of the West or in Vevelstad? Then a police patrol from Sortland or Brønnøysund will move out, and they will often be one to two hours away. In addition, the police need a suitable boat to get out to the islands along Helgeland, Salten, Ofoten, Lofoten and the Westphalian. A police patrol in North Norway would like to cover an area larger than many states in the south. For example, the Alta Police will: move out to Kautokeino if anything serious happens. It's 130 kilometers to go. It's like a patrol from Oslo was going out to Gjøvik, Halden or Larvik. The police have got new police helicopters, and that's very good, but everyone's on Taraldrud south of Oslo, and the helicopters will need more stopovers to fill fuel before they get to Northland, Troms and at least Finnmark. This is the great paradox of centralisation policy for the government and the Progress Party. Preparedness and centralisation are not compatible. The government and the Progress Party have centralised police, ambulance and defence capabilities away from large parts of the country, and, of course, when resources do not exist, they cannot find one another. They shut down over 120 LEN offices, remove 350 police posts and centralize employees from about half of the remaining police stations and LEN offices. It's not building up resources and preparedness across the country. That's the opposite. Where the police do not have the necessary equipment such as boats, helicopters or suitable vehicles, it must be borrowed by private, voluntary or other public bodies. In Finnmark, all snowmobiles and ATVs in the police are now centralised in one location. As a result, the police have to rely on volunteers when something happens outside of all colors. The police's boating services have been systematically reduced in recent years. There are now two police boats covering the entire coast from Trondelag to the Russian border. By comparison, or perhaps without comparison, Austria, a country without coastline, has 50 police boats. We see that police calls along the coast are delayed because the police have to charge a ferry to get to islands or get over fjords. Is it good preparedness if it's an acute, life-threatening event, and even if it takes place on an island where there aren't very many residents? The Council of State suggested that there were many Central Party rapporteurs who opposed going into the police council. It is possible, and it may be done for good reason, but I know up to several people who have actually entered the local/regional police council. The undersigned was one of them in the previous period. But back to the beginning. The lesson of serious incidents should be that there must be resources close enough for them to find one another. In the event of fire, ongoing violence, serious accidents or the like, people in Northern Norway are not helped by the fact that there are a lot of resources in the East. Preparedness must be decentralised and accessible throughout the country. Resources must exist to find each other close to people throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3303	Most recently today, I received a message of concern from the populace that police response time has increased, and that it is increasing most in areas with few inhabitants. This has led the local fire service to much greater extent than in the past to operate as a first-line standby for most callouts — ranging from fire to car accidents and rape episodes. Local fire services often stand alone at accident sites for a very long time before both ambulances and police arrive, and they have to deal with, among other things. damage site protection, evacuation, serious injuries and traffic diversion. Many local fire services are not equipped for these tasks, either on the equipment side or in terms of capacity and competence. Government-funded preparedness has been reduced with the result that the already strenuous municipal budget is burdened with realignment of fire preparedness to compensate for the loss of local police. This is the situation in more and more municipalities, in the community. We've had eight years with an increasingly centralised police force in Northern Ireland. Recently, statistics came from the Brønnøsund registers, which show where police officers have had their place of work. The numbers' speech is ready. In the Nordic region, 16 out of 27 police stations and officers’ offices have the same number or fewer of employees in 2020 as when the near police reform was introduced. In addition, when we know that a reform adopted by the government parties, the Workers' Party and the Progress Party resulted in the closure of a ten-member office, we see a huge internal centralisation in the Nordic police district in recent years. The joint police association in Northern Ireland answered the following questions as to whether the police have come closer to the population after the reform: ‘No. There are several service locations where only one person is employed to be able to have the Länsmannskontoret on the organisation card. In reality, these work so much in the larger service units to make the tour go around. We are constantly experiencing reports of missions that are 10 miles from the nearest patrol. Follow-up to police contacts has been partially absent.’ Of course, there are also places in Northern Ireland where there have been more policemen, and where things are going better now than before. The police officers and the leaders do a very good and important job in our state, no matter where they work. The Nordic police chief, Tone Vangen, recently became the police security officer, and the competence environment related to preparedness in Bodø is the best in the country. The only question is whether it is worth sacrificing locally present police in 26 municipalities in the Nordic region to improve manning in nine places. It is fine that there have been more police officers in the largest cities, but there is no doubt that there is a shortage of preparedness, local expertise, presence and prevention in smaller cities and towns. Lake Sandness, Evenes, Grane and Hattfjelldal, Herøy and Dønna, Luray and Traina, Lake Lake Svolvær, Tysfjord, Vega, Værøy and Øksnes have all, according to the Brønn Island Sun Registers, had a decrease in the number of employees of 58 in total from 2016 to 2020. When we also know that there were 37 employees from Hadsel, Bø, Lødingen, Ballangen, Saltdal and Beiarn, Steigen, Gildeskal, Rødøy, Hemnes and Sømna when these men's offices were shut down due to the near-police reform, we see the effect of the centralisation of Norwegian police times. The government believes that all of these officers' offices had to be closed in order to get more police out on the patrol. Has it happened? No, no, no. According to the police’s own capacity study, which was published in February, there were two – 2 additional year’s work on patrol from 2015 to 2019 throughout the country. This leads to non-compliance with the promise made to the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3321	It seems that the Council of State is being insulted about every time we in the Central Party take up the centralization of the police action. I thank the interpellant, Emilie Enger Mehl, for addressing this topic today, because it's a theme we're not going to finish discussing, for very good reasons. This is not just a struggle for different political directions – where the one direction is centralization, which the government stands for, with the success of the Progress Party now when one is in opposition, and the other direction, which is a desire for police near the people of the whole country – it is a struggle for truth, about what is actually the situation now after a reform that we disagree about. It may be okay that we disagreed on the reform, but we have to be able to become a few on what is actually the result. That's what we're hoping for. That's why we're going to do it this time and time again. What was promised by the government was that it would come very well by laying down more than 120 loner offices. Not only should there be more police on wheels, patrols who were going to travel around and be more visible than the former police, who were being made as quite daring, one should also get stronger remaining relief bureau because the resources as a saving on these closures would go to the others, both to those who were in the offices for the day to day, and to this police on wheels. Then a not least few better opening hours, because the opening hours that were before were so tragic, as Enger Mehl also pointed out in his post. And when we look at the results of these promises -- what was said, and what has happened -- that's when it gets interesting. And that's when we wanted the government council and the others from the government parties to actually listen more to what's being said – not just from us in the Center Party, they don't have to listen to us at all, they can listen to what's being said by police around the country. Because there is no doubt that things have happened here, and it is that it has not been better opening hours, it has not been stronger remaining loner offices – on the contrary, many have been lost and have barely added again. When it concerns the police on wheels, it was probably six or eight years' work in the whole country it was going to be extra. It wasn't enough for a single extra patrol across our long-range country, as a result of these closures. That's when it becomes interesting to discuss what's the situation now, what's the truth, what was the promise. Even if one could disagree on the direction of the decision on police reform when it was taken, it must be possible to decide what is going on. But it's obvious that it's not easy. Meland said some interesting things instead, I mean the council said that she hopes that the corona will soon be over, so that we in the Central Party will start traveling around the country and get to know what's going on in the police – that's something like that. But there is no lack of ground contact with us that is the problem here. We have good contact with police around the country, and the recordings come from all over the country, not just from the districts, but also from the cities. There are changes there that have been in the negative direction. So the Council of State also said instead that the Central Party criticises the police and the work of the police. No, we don't. We don't criticize the police. We don't criticize the work of the police. We criticise the government's policy, which means that competent and, not least, conscientious policemen are having trouble doing good preventive work because the distances have been too large, and not least the promise that it would be close to people. It has failed, and people no longer have a face on the police. There's growing up kids and kids who won't have a face on who the police are, as they could before. It is a problem, especially when it comes to prevention, and we must not forget that prevention is extremely important as part of police work. When it comes to longer distances and centralization, which I am talking about, it is an open problem that the fire and rescue services are moving out more and more. Many places are such that there has been a very large increase in the financial costs of the municipalities, because they are forced to pay for what was formerly police statements. Now it is the fire and rescue service that is moving out, and then it is the municipalities that have to take the cost of the state because the police have been the victim of a so-called near-police reform, which was not that close. I will end by just referring to More and Romesdal, which is my county, my police district. There it has been an enormous internal centralisation in the police district. All net growth has gone to Ålesund, where the new main seat is. I love Ålesund and Sunnmøre all sorts of good things when it comes to resources, but it is not right that the supply of resources be so distorted that in practice it is a huge internal centralisation of the police district.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3338	The basic task to which the police are to contribute is to ensure the security of people's daily lives, no matter where they live in Norway, in the countryside and in the city. It is to ensure that people experience security in everyday life, it is to help avert small and big events, and it is to ensure that a person gets help within a reasonable time when he needs it. What is being addressed in this interpellation, a very important interpellation, is whether one has a recognition of the situation around Norway, and that one is willing to see the negative consequences of the gigantic centralisation of the Norwegian police that has taken place, as people around – in both small and large municipalities, in both scattered and densely built districts – criticizes, and that also competent police people, with long experience, strongly warn against. They ask for a change in direction. I hear repeatedly the Council of State point out that instead of having a LEN's office, a few more present police are going through the fact that the LEN's office has been shut down. As a result of the reform, over 120 offices have been closed in Norway. Even I live in one of the agglomerations in Norway, Sørumsand, which used to have a county office. It was, of course, a loner's office that was not open 24 hours a day, it had limited opening time. We had the police in the village that were present, and that people knew about. What happened afterwards? People do not experience greater security in everyday life and a more present police force after the reform – on the contrary. One sees how the police have become less present, and how the concerns of both adults and young people arise as a result of the fact that the police are less present than before. Local people have to organise night work as an alternative to the presence that the police had before — not because the police don't want to be present, don't want to work prevention, don't want to set up when it's something, no, it's because the priorities of the police, the responsibility that the government has, mean they don't have the resources to work the way they did before. In Rome, you talk about the police and the police on wheels. Well, up until two years ago, the police in Rome had an emergency instruction that said there should be a minimum of five patrols on the Roman Empire at any time. The emergency instructions that one had had for a ten-year period, until 2019, had to be closed because East police districts said they did not have the resources to continue to have such emergency instructions. This is the situation also other places in Rome, but also in Asker and Bærum, where one sees what happened to the centralization when Asker and Bærum became part of the Oslo police district. The medical profession in Bærum had to hire private weight companies because they could no longer trust the police to have the same preparedness as before. Or on Hurumland, where one sees that to the extent police patrols come when something happens, often patrols come either from Sandvika, or, for that matter, from Stovner, who lacks the local knowledge and presence of the daily. It is a serious situation around Norway. Police officers in all police districts are warning against developments. There is reason for the government to listen, but unfortunately there must be a new government. Luckily, we're going to have hope of a new government, a new majority, providing a new direction for the Norwegian police.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3355	My question to the government via the Minister of Justice in this interview was what negative consequences the government is looking for near-police reform, because it is difficult to do something about negative problems that you do not want to recognise. It's not a question that excludes any positive consequences, but that's not what was the issue now. The Minister of Justice rejects the whole issue and the interpellation with hoaxing and by showing that she does not share what she calls the Central Party's reality description. In my post, I have not provided an independent description of reality on behalf of the Center Party, but I have pointed out research at the Police College, statements from the police and representatives of the police case. I think I've got the police's own numbers. Among other things, I have to the research from the Police College, which says that the police have been significantly centralised with the reform of the police. I have shown the police's own numbers, which show that there has not been a single extra patrol on the roads, but that there have been 720 new posts in central police bureaucracy. I've shown you concerns from lenders who experience being disqualified in a top-down system, and who experience that smaller sites are being down-prioritized. I've shown a chief of police in Bergen, who says that the near-police reform has made the police too little visible in the districts. And I've shown concern from an entire region in the Gudbrand valley that fears the preparedness of its region, which is great, it's long distances. They are also afraid of the prevention work. This could go beyond the confidence of the police and the people's sense of being safe. I have shown that the response time has not been reduced as was the target, and that nine out of 12 police districts do not meet their own response time requirements in one or more categories by 2020. I got a challenge from the Council of State, which was that we should make a proposal. In my main post, I just referred to a proposal that the Stortinget has adopted, namely that the remaining Länsmann offices should be strengthened, but the government has not chosen to follow up. It is not a strengthening of the rest of the county offices with the degradation and depletion of resources that we see by the local police all over Norway. I think it's very bad that the government can't participate in a factual discussion of the negative consequences, but chooses not to listen to people and the concerns that come from below.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3367	Just to make it clear, of course, I take questions and interviews from Stortinget with a good mood, and I have noticed that the Central Party is very interested in discussing the police reform, which they were also very opposed to. But then I think the Central Party must take on board that when it's just the Center Party that's interested in discussing this in the Stortinget, it's not because no one else is interested in police and police reform. It is simply because we others had a fundamental and good and broad debate related to the big message at the end of February. Then it becomes very strange to repeat the same debate in terms of an interpellation today. But now leave it. The centre party is concerned with criticism. I have received criticism for lack of staff locally, criticism for the units, criticism for the police districts – criticism at all stages. Then I would like to see politics: what is the political answer to the Central Party? We are in favour of the reform, we have now done a historic strengthening of the GDEs, we have just done what the Stortinget has asked of us, with a historic effort of 400 years' worth of work, we have made a reinforcement of 3,600 more people in the police, with new cars, new boats, with a national emergency centre, with a strong reinforcement of the response force, with a strong commitment to new police helicopters – so we have made a strong reinforcement in all directions. I confess to that reinforcement, and it's going to continue. But the Central Party's answer is critical. And then I wonder, what does the police look like the Center Party wants? I can't help but see when you disagree with all parts of the reform. And then you highlight that there are some worried voices. Mr. Görlsvik said that it was a massive concern. Well, I've been in absolutely all the police districts, I haven't met a single one – not a trusted man, not a patrol, not a police mediator, not a leader – who is against the police reform, and who thinks we should reverse the clock. Everyone's for, and then someone will say that it has some weaknesses. We even got cake from the Police Joint Union for Christmas. I don't think many governments have experienced that. As I said, we are committed to the reform, we believe it is right, but we are looking forward to it. And so I don't see what the alternative would be.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3378	As a result, the interpellation debate in case No. 11 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3394	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3401	I would first like to thank the Committee for its cooperation and for a good work on the vote. I am pleased that there is a joint committee that takes this study seriously and is behind the conclusions of the National Audit Office. I would also like to thank the National Audit Office for a thorough work and for having addressed this important matter. Police shall prevent and prevent criminal offences and detect, stop and prosecute offences and criminal offences. The aim of the investigation has been to assess whether the police and prosecution authorities have an overview, investigate and investigate ICT crime in accordance with the leadership of the Stortinget, and whether the police perform their primary task in that area in accordance with the police law. With the increasing digitisation of society, crime is also increasing on digital surfaces. Much of the crime, such as fraud and sexual assault, is now being carried out as ICT crime. The police's criminal record shows that traditional crime in physical space has been declining for several years. ICT crime is both a serious and less serious crime. Serious crime strikes children and young people in the form of sexual abuse via the Internet. It affects private enterprises and causes large value losses. ICT crime also affects the form of ID theft, online banking fraud and other forms of fraud on the Internet. In line with the digitisation of the economy and society, incentives for potential lawbreakers are increasing to turn profit crime into digital platforms. Almost all crime today has a digital element in it. Many of the cases are also more extensive and complicated than before. A perpetrator may be responsible for hundreds of victims of net crime, fraud and other forms of digital crime. Furthermore, victims and perpetrators tend to be in different places in the country, including in different countries. This makes the investigation more laborious than before, and we need to make sure that we have a police force that has the capacity and competence to handle this development. The National Audit Office's report reveals clear weaknesses, which are overall serious. I want to draw out some findings. The police lack competence in the field of ICT crime investigation. There is a lack of coordination between police districts. There are challenges with international cooperation. The police lack an overview of ICT crime. The National Audit Office’s investigation shows that the police’s ability to detect and clarify data crime has clear weaknesses, which are overall serious. First of all, the police lack competence in the investigation of data crime. In addition, the police do not keep up with the challenge. An increasing proportion of crime is being committed online without police being able to follow developments. This is despite the fact that the police have been budget winners in recent years. Secondly, weaknesses in support systems lead to inefficient resource use and a lack of coordination between police districts. In addition, international cooperation is challenging. Overall, this contributes to a low level of data crime resolution. There has been and is fortunately broad political agreement that violence and abuse in close relations and sexual abuse against children should be a high priority. It is also a priority that the Riksadvokat has clearly informed the police districts. Although the police over several years have prioritised the investigation and clarification of Internet-related sexual offences, we see that police investigation capacity is challenged by large-scale net crime cases with many insults. It is very worrying that the police are getting an increasing amount of tips that there is no capacity to go through. It is also worrying that digital seizures are being reviewed in each district without specific coordination, and that the police are lacking a national solution that can help coordinate investigations across police districts. According to the State budgets, the report points out that the police have been given additional resources. It has greatly enhanced the ability of the police to deal with ICT crime. The consequences of the lack of priority are that serious crime is not investigated and solved, and Norwegian citizens and businesses lose confidence in the police and leave it unannounced. The report is serious. We still know that there's a lot of positive happening in ICT. We also know that it's a demanding job, and that the development of technology is moving fast. Nevertheless, I am pleased that there is an overall committee that supports the recommendations of the Riksrevision. The Committee expects the police’s efforts to combat cybercrime to be significantly strengthened over the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3440	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum asked the Prime Minister in question on 14 April about why the firemen in Salangen have to do the work to the police when the police are not present. Then the Prime Minister answers that the police reform gives us better quality, better systems and more legal security, and not least that it causes the police to be present where crime and abuse are taking place today – online. The report we are now handling shows that the police are not present when the crime is committed online. The Directorate of Police and the Ministry of Justice and Security have for many years been aware that the police's competence, capacity, support system, coordination and international cooperation do not seem to keep pace with digital crime developments. The National Audit Office is particularly critical that the Ministry has not taken the height of developments in ICT crime at the time of the police reform. The redundancy that has taken place to achieve the target of two police posts per thousand inhabitants, and the increase in the budget for this, is of little use in strengthening any police force to deal with ICT crime. I am pleased that a joint committee in the vote supports the Riksrevision's criticism that the development of ICT crime is not managed in the implementation of the police reform. I am concerned that the Council of State in its reply to the Riksrevision emphasises that the police have carried out a comprehensive reform during the period considered by the Riksrevision. When the development of crime online is a foundation for the implementation of police reform, the Council of State cannot apply the same reform as cause when the police do not manage crime online. The Prime Minister said in Question Time on 14 April that centralisation of the police is a desirable policy. But if you want something, you should do it your own way. What surprises me most in this report is that the Ministry of Justice and Defence believes that other priorities are more important than ICT crime. What priorities have been more important than the purpose of the police reform is not answered in the report. But it is appropriate to remind the Council of State that if she comes to the Stortingen with proposals for reform, then it is up to the Council of State to carry out what she has presented. It is the task of the Council of State to assess how the reform can be carried out and what is needed for the police to do their work, both in the Salangian and online.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3451	This is a serious matter. The National Audit Office itself says that the weaknesses they find in the police's ability to both detect and clarify data crime have clear weaknesses that are serious overall. The National Audit Office also considers it critical that the Ministry of Justice has not met the challenges of effectively combating crime with international ramifications, which often have data crime, at an earlier time. This joins SV. The fact that there is still insufficient work to prevent, detect and clarify Internet-related offences despite the high attention given to the area — among others. from Stortinget, and it is also a cross-political commitment – is alarming. We notice that these are exactly the areas where the Riksrevision is criticising the police's work, which the government is using to justify its police reform. It is a cross-thinking that the government's message has been so clear that police action against ICT crime has been strengthened by police reform, while few traces of it are found here. On the contrary, the work on reform, according to the government itself, has removed resources from other areas, which is worrying in itself. In addition, we support the National Audit Office's assessment that, when the Department has been familiar with the challenges and the Police Directorate has not prioritised the area, the Ministry of Justice and Defence should have a closer and clearer governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3460	Let me first make it clear that I am taking the Riksrevisions findings very seriously. As pointed out in the police report, ICT crime is to be combated by, inter alia: relevant intelligence, prevention, methodological and regulatory development and investigation. Police reform has provided stronger disciplines. The police officer in Finnmark, Ellen Katrine Dek, says this: ‘In the whole chain from the police patrol to the specialised professional communities, we build up competence, quality and professionalism in police services that we did not have in Finnmark before the police reform.’ In addition to the police reform, there has been a lot in the field in the last two years, i.e. in the period following the Riksrevision investigation. The Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Directorate of Police are in the process of following up the National Audit Office's proposals for improvements. This year, the Police Directorate has allocated 40 million to Kripos. kr to strengthen the National Cybercrime Centre, NC3, established in 2019. There has also been a significant development of police prevention. Network patrols and presence in social media provide the basis for good dialogue with children and young people. All police districts have set up their own prevention units. On 9 April of this year, the government promoted a proposal to amend the eco-nomy law with proposals for mandatory storage of IP addresses for 12 months. The retention period of 12 months is necessary in order for the police and the prosecution authority to use the information in a sufficiently effective manner. The legislative proposal is an important and correct step towards a safer society for children and young people and everyone else who travels online. National Digital Security Strategy was launched in 2019. In the strategy, combating ICT crime is one of five priority areas. The Ministry of Justice and Security is also in the final phase with its own strategy against net crime, which will be presented during the spring. The National Audit Office’s report points out that lack of competence prevents the detection and detection of ICT crime. Kripos and NC3 are developed as national centres of knowledge and competence in the Norwegian police in the prevention, detection and fight against threats and crime in the digital space, including: combating Internet-related sexual abuse. Different environments of competence are expected to contribute positively in the future. The food skills of Kripos support the work of police districts, and there are dedicated units with competence in digital police work in all police districts. Police are in the process of finalising a strategy of competence and knowledge with a planned completion before the summer of this year. Digital police work and combating ICT crime are one of the priority areas proposed. The Committee points to the lack of coordination of digital seizures. Follow-up is under way by the police. I also record that the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party and the Central Party suggest that more general and strategic management of the Police Directorate is the right way to go. I agree. It is demanding because more freedom of action, more trust also means less reporting and less detailing. It is demanding for both government and big business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3493	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3498	What priorities have been more important than ICT crime in the period 2016-2019, and why has the Ministry not prioritised the objective of police reform when the resources for the reform were available?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3503	ICT crime is not a uniform concept. As the representative knows, it embraces everything from fraud on the web to net acts against children. I believe that we have prioritised this type of crime, and that it has happened a lot in the last two years, and I have explained that. All police districts have now received units for digital police work. We've had network patrols in all the districts, and we've seen in the last few years in a lot of districts that there's been a lot of assaults on children. Hundreds of victims have been exposed. That's very good. This means that we still have a job to do, but I believe that this work has been a major priority. Then we have said that the most important thing, of course, is killing, rape and assaulting children. And in that case, we're going to use 30 pst. of the resources of 3 pst. of the cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3514	The Council of State was a little bit behind it in the post, but the review of the police and county council for December 2020 shows that the department’s governance is characterised by detailed orientation, lack of robust frameworks and long-term plans. Political governance should, of course, be more about the priority areas of crime. What changes to this governance will the Council of State see that one can do when one is asked to implement the proposals in the report?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3519	Yes, that's what I was at the end of my post, because I think we're all for freedom of action, we're all for room of action and less priority. But when it comes to the problem, it's hard. I have stood here in this room and even answered everything from addresses at the office offices of the police in Oslo to how to encode various crimes. So giving freedom of action, trying not to detail, becomes a demanding job, but we're now working on going through the area review. We're doing it with the trusted ones, and I'm sure we'll get better systems in place. But it requires a lot of a sector that is of great political interest and that brings about a lot of different debates. But we're now working on putting in place systems that take more into account the findings that this area review did.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3525	This case concerns the investigation of police's efforts against cybercrime. Both the National Audit Office and a Joint Committee say that it is highly critical that this development has not been taken into account in the implementation of the reform. At the same time, there has been a prioritisation of the post-reform functional units — a clear prioritisation of functional units — at the expense of geographical holdings, precisely in order to address the challenges now facing such criticism. What has gone wrong when any of the things that are to be solved get such criticism, not only from the Riksrevision, but also from an overall committee? Within the framework set aside by the government, would it have been further centralized, so that the functional units became even stronger? Is that what the government's answer to the criticism?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3532	I don't think I'm quite following the question. The representative seems to believe that it is the construction of joint units that explains the criticism of the Riksrevision. I don't agree with that assumption at all. The fact that we put online patrols, analysis units, laboratories and intelligence in place is very, very important. It's not like if we had just built up the geographical units more and made the units smaller, we would do a better job -- on the contrary. To quote the police officer in South West: it's not a patrol in Sauda that detects an ongoing attack on a baby. It is the fact that we have new methods and new units that make us do it – in addition to much more cooperation between police departments. But when that's said, I'm trying to say that we've taken on the serious criticism, and it's happened a lot in the last two years. This is going to happen a lot more, but then you don't have to give priority to reopening lumbar offices. In fact, the method and quality of the job to be done must be prioritised.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3539	I thought I spoke quite slowly, so the message was easy to understand. I said that the government has prioritised the functional units, and then we've got this result. I understand that analysis, laboratories and intelligence are primarily part of the functional units. They're the ones who're going to sit behind and analyze. Then we have got this result, which is very critical. What in the world has gone wrong? My question was whether there had not been enough resources spent on it. It would mean, within the same resource framework, taking even more from the geographical units. That must be clear logic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3544	With all due respect, it's not the speed of the post that's the problem, it's enough that we disagree completely with the basis of the question. It's gonna be a speculation, of course: if you hadn't done the police reform, would the police be equipped to face the crime we're seeing online today? I think the answer to that is no – that is, I'm absolutely sure the answer is no. But that's pure speculation, and that's not what's interesting. The interesting thing is, what police have we built to face crime that we see developing at an increasing rate? I mean, we're on the right track. I think we still have a job to do. That is why I have also made it clear that we are taking this criticism seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3551	I have a question for the Council of State about what many of us are experiencing, new forms of everyday crime, that we are having attempts at fraud, fraud and ID thefts, for example. on our computers, and some of them become more difficult and more difficult to understand that are fraud attempts. I have taken myself into almost clicking on some links that I have believed were from those from which I get services. I tried to report it a few years ago, after collecting three-four such cases, and here at least there was no discrimination, because I received a warrant within two-three days with an automatic response from the police. I would like to ask the Council of State: will she recommend that people, when they are exposed to this, and when there are advanced attempts – those who are involved in it, do so safely because there are some who are on the limb, and that they serve on it – report this to the police, so that we get an overview of the extent?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3558	Yes, my recommendation to anyone who feels exposed to crime, or possible crime, is to report it. Of course I do. I also believe that it is very important that the police take seriously what is the new form of everyday crime, because that's really what the representative here describes – it's not so much cycling theft and burglary at home, but it's online fraud, that you are lured into entering codes and lured into specifying the personalia, which allows people to misuse their names and accounts. It is very important that the police also take this type of crime seriously, so that it is followed up. Then I'm going to admit that given that we're going to be a priority in the police too, and given that we all also have to take responsibility for not pressing that button, in order to familiarize ourselves with how we can protect ourselves – just as many people now have an alarm at home to protect themselves – this is a difficult balance. But yes, report, and yes, the police will take it seriously. This is important for people to feel secure, that this type of crime is also taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3565	It is interesting to hear the Council of State say that this area is a priority, when the Riksrevision correctly states – and I quote – that it appears that ‘it is a small priority’. Then we're going to pick who we're going to listen to. In any case, the government's message has always been clear that the police's efforts against ICT crime have been strengthened by the police reform, but the Riksrevision finds – and I summarise: ‘The police’s ability to detect and clarify ICT crime has clear and serious overall weaknesses’. It's a high threshold for using that word for the Riksrevision. Among other things, the police lack competence, the measures do not keep pace with development, there is inefficient resource use, lack of coordination, lack of transparency, lack of priority, insufficient capacity — and not least that data crime, as has been said, has been a minor priority of the directorate and department. So my question is probably whether the Council of State will recommend a change in government's speech points on the police reform after this inquiry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3577	No, I don't, because what I've spent time telling you today is what's happened. So this study goes back to 2018, and we can discuss the situation then, but I think it's more relevant and more important that I explain what happened after 2018: the fact that we've got the National Cyber Security Centre in NSM, the fact that we've got the National Cyber Crime Centre in Kripos, the fact that we've got the common cyber coordination centre connected to the Kripos, the E-Service and the NSM, that we've got digital police work units in all the police districts, that we've got network patrols in all the districts. So a lot has happened, and it is precisely based on the fact that we have implemented a reform that enables us to put the resources where we should do it. Then I hear that someone thinks that this would go even better without the police reform. I totally disagree with that. But a lot has happened, and then new investments, new skills building, because this type of crime is becoming more and more sophisticated.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3584	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3591	The police have a demanding task. Crime is constantly changing, and it's not an easy job. That's something everyone has to admit. Nevertheless, after the strong criticism, it is clear that data crime has not been satisfactorily solved. There was something that was really going to be solved by the reform. The Council of State has said that work on the reform has been very resource-intensive, so that there is a reason why you have not done a real job. It is closely linked to the fact that the major centralisation reform was without sufficient funding. Yes, my assessment is far worse: it was deliberately underfunded. If it had emerged when the reform was presented, that the reform cost so much extra, it would have been much harder to implement it. I have this information from the central people in the police, who said the government was putting that information, but it didn't take it seriously. It's caused problems in retrospect, and now we're seeing how it looks in connection with what should be a priority problem. We had a centralisation reform instead of a police management reform. The basis for all of this was the July 22 Commission and the examination of the control committee. I have to refer again to what was said by the majority of the control committee at that time. One went into management challenges in the police. One explained there from the majority that it was really that tightening up the management that was the big challenge. And it was said, finally, in the note from the Center Party, the Workers' Party and SV that a ‘will underline the importance of the management of these agencies’, i.e. the police, among others. – ‘Sees the need to access and make use of the experience and assessments of their staff. The first line of mission must be given authority, trust and encouragement to use its competence. At the same time, the people of the first line must be trained to ensure the safe exercise of demanding tasks, equipment that is modern to perform the tasks and to ensure that the individual communicates with his or her working group so that the task can be handled as efficiently as possible. It is for all these emergency organisations that they need decentralised management that can realise the overall level of their intention.» It's a fairly precise description of what we really need in the public, what we need not least in the police, that one here is going into a management reform that gives trust, responsibility, authority, education and equipment, so that one can be up to the situation. It wasn't prioritised by the government. A priority centralization, and here we see one of the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3605	As stated in the Court’s good observations, which have been referred to in the case, the police districts are responsible for investigating most of the issues relating to ICT crime, seizures, etc., and the NC3 unit, the Kripos data-crime unit, only take two or three cases a year. In other words, very much lies in the ability of police districts to read and reveal the information contained in the seizures they make, i.e. in telephones, iPads, all kinds of PCs and all sorts of computer equipment. When I talk to the police districts, the problem is that even criminals who, I was saying, are on the street today, have learned to use encrypted solutions, a very advanced form of communication. The police districts say openly and directly to me that they can't crack, that is. For example, in the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Ireland and the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom are reported to have reported an increase in the number of seizures in the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. on a mobile phone, iPad or PC. There's something called data reading, that they got legal support to run by us at Stortinget in serious criminal cases with a certain criminal framework, but there's hardly any police district that has the ability to do data reading today. So there's a big problem now, that using the dark web and using encrypted technology makes the police unable to get through, and then we depend on Kripos having the capacity to do it. And today, Kripos’s ability to assist the police is unfortunately too limited. We have made some suggestions on this in the past, including: A gang that would assist the police right in this field. But a problem I want to raise with the State Council now, which I have raised in Stortinget on several occasions, goes on the new directive which means that when the police make seizures in the police districts, they are not allowed to go through it if those who have been seized with their phone or their computer equipment say: This is communication with my lawyer, with my priest, with my psychologist. It is now known in the criminal environments. This means that it must then be sent to the tribunal, and the tribunal does not have the equipment to analyse encrypted communications, etc., so they have to rent it in. For example, in Oslo, I've talked to policemen who in major cases -- this is about cases with major criminal cases involving organised crime -- don't get any answers because it takes weeks for the district court to hire specialists to need through that communication. I have taken it up with the State Council in Stortinget before, but I will ask again: how far have we now come up with a new solution on how the police districts should handle seizures, in order not to send them to the district court and wait for weeks?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3615	First, I want to thank the case rapporteur for doing a good job with this case and summed it up well here in the Chamber. This is a very important national audit report. This is with and visible why we have the Riks revision. Well, they're going to follow up on the things we do, to see if we can achieve the results we want, and then they've made important findings and made good recommendations. But I think that some of the representatives in the room here are drawing the conclusions strangely far when it is said that yes, this report shows that the police are not present on the Internet, and that they have not given priority. It sounds like they're totally absent from all that's involved in dealing with cybercrime. That's not the case. Yes, the council has said that we still have a lot to fix, and a lot has been done. That's good, that's how we're going to use the National Audit Office's reports to keep working. But that in this debate it has now been connected to everything else that happens in the police, and that there is no activity, I think it is quite serious. I also visit the police a lot and have a lot of dialogue with the police. They're as desperate as many of us here in the hall when they can't really follow up on ICT crime. But they work and they work. They are present, they build experience, they build skills, but it takes time. I would like to remind you that in 2007 the first smartphone came. It was the beginning of the possibilities of the kind of crime we're talking about here now. It's not that many years ago. And this is going to figure out, see what happens, a is going to train people to that. It takes a little bit of time, and we could say it takes too long. But it's really doing a lot, and the police are really making a lot of effort to try to take it. And then someone thinks that breaking up the environments is the way to do it. Some people believe that in this area it is important to bring together the environments, to bring together the competences. I'm among those who believe the last. However, the study shows that we need more coordination with the information that you have, so that you can help, so that you can learn from each other in order to grasp data crime. These basements are in front of you. We just have to hang out and try everything we can to take them back.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3630	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3649	The size has determined that the Norwegian wolf stock should be managed according to a stock target. An important purpose of having a stock target is to ensure that the load does not become excessive in areas where predators are present. We also have targets for other large predators. It is about ensuring the possibility of living in the districts, having a livelihood, feeding grazing and maintaining traditions related to soil and forest management that have existed through generations. It's about people's sense of security and freedom and the ability to use nature for hunting, outdoors, recreation and food production inside and outside the wolf zone in places like Rendalen, Tynset, Tolga, Kongsvinger, Åsnes, Våler, Aurskog-Høland, Rakkestad, Degennes or Halden. It's also about justice. Today’s wolf management, which is based on a wolf zone where some areas in Norway have to bear all the burden that the big community will have wolves in Norwegian nature, is fundamentally unfair. Then people in Hedmark, Akershus and Østfold, who have been subjected to this burden, must at least expect the stock to be regulated in line with the agreed stock target. This has not been the case in recent years. The government, with the Right, Christian People's Party, the Left, and with the support of the Progress Party, has instead allowed the wolf population to lie far above the agreed stock target for several years, and has spent time training licensing and harvesting of wolves as far as possible – with the Left in the Climate and Environment Department at the head. The stock target for wolves in Norway is four to six young people per year, determined by the Storting, three of whom are to be young people in good health. Also the kittens outside the wolf zone count by. Fowls in border revir, i.e. part of Norway and part of Sweden, should be counted by a factor of 0.5. Int. 330 S for 2015–2016 the majority on Stortinget, consisting of the Center Party, Right, Labour Party, Advance Party and Christian People's Party, says in the comments: ‘The majority of the committee would stress that the stock target should be perceived as a minimum and maximum target and that this has been achieved when passing 4 and it should not exceed 6. In that case, withdrawals shall be initiated.’» There have been last recorded 8.5 young people in Norway. There were registered puppy coal in six helnorphic revirs and five border revirs at the last count. Therefore, in order to fall below the stock target of six juveniles, which are to be considered a maximum target, it is necessary to remove either at least three Helenoric reviruses, five border reviruses or a combination of them in order to comply with the Storting's stock target decision. In the autumn of 2020, the surveyors in regions 4 and 5 who manage the wolf zone agreed that 32 wolves in five revir within the wolf zone would be able to share a licence in the winter 2021. On 21 December 2021, only a few days before the hunt was due to begin, the government decided to override the local predators and reduced the killing permit to only two reviral instead of five. You took the permission to trap the Rømskog Revirate, the Hernes Revirate and the Hornmoen Revirate. It implies that the wolf continues to be managed over the stock target by the government, contrary to the decision of the Stortinge. This overrun has people in the wolf zone, who live with predators, experienced before. There have been major demonstrations outside the Storting on several occasions to ask the government to comply with the Storting's decision on stock targets and to reduce the wolf population. Because of the coronary apathy, it was not possible to implement this year, but the Natural Use Alliance, which consists of a number of organisations, arranged a fire operation with a great deal of excitement. The aim was to communicate to the government that enough is enough, one has to follow the Storting decision, the wolf population needs to be reduced. In the time after the government rejected the fall of the three rivals, there has been a development in the legal system. We have to get back to 2017. In 2017, the World Natural Fund, WWF, filed an action against the State in order to obtain approval for the killing of three revenants invalidated, and they claimed in the lawsuit that the Norwegian Animal Administration is contrary to the Constitution, the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention. On 1 January 2018, Left.no, the party of the Minister for Climate and Environment, published an article entitled ‘Important with legal clearance on wolves’. Ola Elvestuen, who was Minister for Climate and Environment before the current State Council, Sveinung Rotevatn, says in that article: ‘Left is pleased that the WWF has sued the State and demands new Norwegian wolf management. This is important because we are many who believe that the bulk of the population has fallen on a stock target that is too low to meet our commitments under the Berne Convention." Furthermore, the article states: ‘The majority amended the Roofing Game Regulation. However, although the Central Party, the Workers' Party, the KRF, Right and Frp were not subject to any change in the Nature Diversity Act, a majority of the parties in the Storting decided to ask the government to amend the Roofing Game Regulation, in order to extend the basis for the licensing of wolves. That is the background of the wretched act to which it is now open. The left went against the amendment of the Roofing Game Regulation in Stortinget, but was sadly downcast." To this end, former State Council Elvesuen is quoted as follows: ‘The challenge is that a majority in the UK wants to extract several wolves, despite the fact that it is hardly in line with the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention. We deeply regret that, because wolf is part of Norwegian nature. We're going to continue our fight for the wolf, and now it's important to have a clear legal clearance." And on the other hand, ‘It is difficult to imagine that the decision to open up to the currently pending Wolfej Act may remain pending after proceedings in the Court of Justice.’.» On 26 March 2020, the clarification awaited by the Left came to the Supreme Court. A unanimous court concluded that the WWF was losing the case, and the decision on the ulway act it was about remains standing. In addition, the court declares that the WWF and Left's assumption that the stock target is contrary to the Children's Convention is incorrect. I quote from the court order: ‘The national stock target is set in Section 3 at four to six annual young people, three of whom are whole Norwegian. The same stock target is set in the relevant regions 4 and 5 cf. § 4(d) and (e). [[71]] I find it clear that Norway does not break Article 2 of the Berne Convention as long as the Norwegian sub-stock is so large that this stock target is achieved.» In the article on Left.no, the Left also claims the following: ‘Lefts provided in the previous magnification period, through the cooperation agreement with the Government Parties and the KrF, that the Law on Natural Diversity should not be amended. This was the reason why a proposal for amendments to the law did not receive a majority when the case was dealt with in Stortingen last year.» The left must also give away its own interpretation, because in the judgment of the Supreme Court it is stated that the Storting did not adopt the proposal, because the majority considered that the existing paragraph 18, first paragraph, point (c), had already opened up the licence to an adequate extent, and then to a greater extent than the government meant. Instead, the Storting asked the government to change the robber's regulations. And on the other hand, ‘When the law was not amended, the opinions of the Storting must initially be regarded as post-worker, which is normally only limited by the interpretation of the law. But the special thing here is that the Greatness's view appears in a case of law, and then as a reason for not changing the law. When this is the situation, I believe that opinions need to be given greater weight than after-work is usually given. The weight should then be more in line with that of the law-makers. In situations such as this, the Storting may not be required to re-adopt the law.» While we've been waiting for these clarifications, the Right and Christian People's Party in the government has left the Left Government of Norwegian Robbery Administration to its own conviction, not after what the majority of the Storting has suggested. Although the stock target has been over-filled for several years, no necessary killing permits have been granted to reduce the stock target. That practice must end. The Supreme Court has now established that the objective of the stock does not conflict with the Berne Convention. In the light of the judgment, how will the government reduce the wolf population and ensure that the will of the Storting is followed?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3720	The management of wolves is a highly debated management area – more than most in this room, I believe – and this has been the case for several years. In particular, the issues of licensing agreements and decisions that have received great attention in the Stortinget and in public opinion or else. After several rounds in the legal system, we now reached a conclusion at the entrance to Easter from our Supreme Court on a decision on the licensing of wolves outside the wolf's son, back in the winter of 2017/2018. I mean that judgment is clarifying and will make the further management of the wolf easier. Although he does not answer all legal questions about predatory game management, there are still useful clarifications that have been given here. The case law has been found to be consistent with national law and with our international obligations, as the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the government have argued. The policy has been that the threshold for allowing the felling of wolves outside the wolfess is low, and both stripe individuals, wolves and flocks have been killed. The only exception has been our genetically valuable wolves, where moving has been carried out as an alternative to killing. We have also discussed that in detail in this Chamber. I also believe that we can say that the Supreme Court has recognised the more fundamental elements of the predatory game management, on which these different decisions are based. I then think about both the stock measures and the zone management. There has been a lot of debate about the stock targets, both their size and their legal effects. In the judgment, the Supreme Court states that we are obliged to keep up a subpopulation of wolves in Norway. The Supreme Court believes that the obligation will be fulfilled if the stock measure as agreed by the Storting is met, and that is an important clarification. At the same time, the target is only a part of the image when it concerns the management of the wolf, and the judgment of the Supreme Court does not give any green light for the felling of the wolf only on the basis of an assessment of whether a target has been achieved alone, or that the killing must be denied if one is below the target. Then there are several rules that enter. The main rule of the Berne Convention is still that it is forbidden to trap wolves. In the event of the killing of wolves, the conditions set out in the Convention must therefore be met. It applies even if the Supreme Court has found that the obligation to secure a minimum level of wolf in Norway has been waived if the target of the stock has been achieved by itself, because the laws lay down several conditions which must be fulfilled when the wolf is killed and which the Supreme Court has assessed in the specific decision-making cases. The size has also given a number of leads for interpretation of the terms of the laws, which indicate that a broader assessment should be made. The size has, among other things, whereas the importance of regional policy interests can be a basis for the collation of wolves, and whereas it is necessary to assess in concrete terms how such interests are involved in each case; The Supreme Court has found that these interpretations of the law should be of great importance. I don't think I can see that the management of the wolf population, based only on the target population, is in line with the intention of Stortinget. Decisions and guides from Stortinget mean that a broader assessment should be made, and both Stortinget and Höjsterrett have stressed that the conditions laid down in the laws must be assessed in detail in each case. The representative of Enger Mehl shows in the context of the interpellation of the appeal decisions on allowances for the licensing of wolves within the wolf's son this winter. I would therefore like to remind you that the decision by the Supreme Court has been tried applies to licensing outside the wolf's son. The threshold for felling wolves shall be low outside of the wolfessa, and shall be the corresponding height within the wolfessa. I believe that both the State and the counterparty might have hoped that the Supreme Court would use the possibility to also say something about the fallout within the wolf's son, when one had this specific case up to treatment – that is, how the law is to be understood in the light of the higher threshold that applies in this area. The chosen Supreme Court not to comment directly, and we just have to take note of that. I think we've put ourselves on the right line, even when it's a matter of licensing wolves within the sons. But it's only when we have a final verdict on licensing within the zone that we want a more definitive answer around the legal framework for the total withdrawal of wolves in Norway. I look forward to clarifying whether it was related to the decision from 2019 on the killing of the Letienna group, which was then within the wolf's son. Through this case, we have received important clarifications from the Supreme Court about the management of the wolf in Norway. The fact that the Supreme Court has approved the practice that we have conducted outside the wolf's son provides an important guide, although the judgment does not provide a final clarification on the use of the laws within the wolf's son. But of course I am satisfied that the view that the government has made applicable to the court has been passed. And in the light of the judgment, I will continue to manage the wolf population in line with the stockpiles, within the framework of the laws of nature, the Berne Convention and the decisions taken by the Stortinge, which regulate the management of the predatory game tribes in Norway, including the wolf.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3752	I experience having got one important thing out of the Council of State, and it is that he acknowledges that the clarifications the Supreme Court came with were important, and that they give legitimacy to the objective and clear doubts about whether the objective is legal. This is contrary to what the Left has asserted until the judgment was delivered. I'm glad we can now agree on that. At the same time, I miss the fact that the government and the government are taking people seriously, because predatory game management is really an exercise in making things as complicated and difficult as possible, dealing with quite simple issues with references here and there that make it completely impossible for people to understand how to deal with the policies that are being pursued. So here we have a measure that's concrete. There was something the Storting did deliberately – to concrete the stock measure, numerically attach it – just to make it possible to measure whether the stock measure is met or not, and whether it is overfilled or not. You have a very clear statement from the majority in Stortinget saying that it should be a minimum and a maximum target. Nevertheless, it's not enough for the government to admit that we have to implement more major sockets of wolf to get down to the stock target. Now we have a system of wild game subjects that is to recommend and adopt licences for licensing both inside and outside the wolf zone, but it works badly when the government does not listen to the decisions made on the basis of laws and regulations, and rather chooses to run people every single time. I don't feel that we can expect a changed course from the government after this interpellation, and I think that's a very bad thing, because people have lived with the wolf load, as big as it is, for too long, and I don't know what it takes to reach the government if not a judgment in the Supreme Court is enough. At least I hope we get a new majority in Norway after the elections, so that we can reduce the wolf population. The Central Party believes that this is absolutely necessary to ensure the security, freedom and ability of people to live and live throughout Norway, including the wolf zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3765	The representative asks why it's so hard to understand, why it's so complicated explanations, why this isn't very easy. I think a lot of the reason why it's in the way the representative himself, her party and a lot of other ways to create an active confusion about what is to be understood here. Because when we're talking about a minimum target and a maximum target, it sounds like it's not possible to trap predators if you're below the minimum target, or you have to do it anyway, regardless of other conditions, if you're above the target. But I don't think it's actually my representative, because I believe the representative knows very well that it's possible to trap predators in Norway even if one is below the target. We have e.g. fields up to several bears, including: Last year – that was the party of the representative very busy doing – even though we are well below the stock of bear in Norway. But one does it anyway because this is a holistic assessment there, among other things. looks at the damage situation. I don't think the representative actually thinks that if we were below the stock target of the wolf, for example. if we had 3.5 year olds, it would be impossible to decide to cause damage to wolves if there was a concrete and serious damage situation. I don't think the representative really means it. Therefore, I think that if someone feels that this is a little confusing, there might be a reason for it, and that's that the confusion is created by someone who wants to give the impression that the code is something different from what they actually think. That's what I think is problematic. Because when we're going to manage wolves in Norway, the stock targets are important, we rule after them, but there are also other conditions the Stortinget has asked us to pay attention to, in nature diversity laws and in the Berne Convention, among other things. whether it is a potential for damage, whether it is a matter of serious damage to regional interests, etc. The apparent great discord here is quite apparent. For this is a law passed in common, and now the Supreme Court has joined the government's understanding. I don't think it's a defeat that the Supreme Court has said that the government is in charge, and there was nothing against the government's argument in court either. This provides important clarifications for future management. That's good. So, as I said, there are also a number of things that are not settled by this judgment, among other things. a number of questions left about the management of the wolf son. I am of the opinion that the practice of government is legal there as well, but as I said, it is a matter that has been reported for the property court, and that will start soon. We get to keep the possibility open so that the state's leading judges can eventually mean something else, but I don't think that's why.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3784	The stock target is, of course, a compromise between different considerations. It has been set to balance the need to maintain the different predatory populations and the need to take care of grazing and rural interests. There has been a conflict around the management of predators – not just wolves, but especially wolves – for many years now, and it has not been due to the fact that the Central Party has listened to people and talked to people. It has been due to the fact that the government has trained the take-off of the wolf, that it has waited until the day before the licensing agreement should begin, by withdrawing the licence agreement granted by the local predators. This is due to the government's proposal to have central denominators instead of locally anchored predators, that is to say, to remove the last democratic alibi in the game management, because the government wants a government of experts instead of a government of the people, and wants people to have even less to say than they already have. I think the government should listen to that frustration. It has been for many years, and although, because of the corona, we cannot have torch before the Storting, that frustration is not gone. For the wolf problem is still there, and the government treats wolves as something other than wild animals to be managed. We have, for example, had a big round here now, which has also been very conflict-making, with a single wolf that the government has chosen to carry around in the helicopter to protect it instead of giving birth permits, which people locally have asked for. It's not the Center Party that creates frustration here. It is the unfair predatory policy of the government. I can understand that it is difficult for a Left Council of State to see it when it is so contrary to their own convictions. I think it is a pity that the Christian People's Party and the Right, which, to the extent that they are not present here – now the Christian People's Party has entered the Chamber – do not take greater responsibility and allow the Left to govern predatory policies, which represent such a small minority of the government, and which have the power to overrun the population of a large part of Norway that must live with unfair predator management.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3795	I note that the interpellant in his article does not respond to or comment on any of my basic points about how the ingredient target is to be understood. It really seemed to me to be speaking, and I'm thinking, as I did before I went up, that means that we're actually a few, and that the inconsistency it's attempted to create an idea of what a minimum or maximum stock measure actually means is not real. That's good, because that means that then there's also a basis for having a greater consensus about how we're going to practice the administration in the future, and that's what I'm positive about. So it's quite right, as the interpellant says, that there's a level of conflict around the wolf management. Of course, there is no doubt about it. There is also no doubt that for those who live with wolf tightness, there may be a strain, and there is no doubt that for those who experience loss of grazing animals to the wolf, there may be a very heavy burden. I understand that, and that's also why, unlike the interpellant that suggests, we treat the wolf as he is, a predator that must be managed. And we do. If not, we would hardly choose fields as many wolves as the administrators actually do every year, both by downfall and by license. It is also positive – at least I feel that way – that the level of conflict is going down, and that it is not as high as it was before. Among other things, I think so. has something to do with seeing better results about loss. In fact, the loss of sheep and lambs grazing on predators is halved since the Senter party was responsible for this policy in Norway. It's because we've targeted damage traps when needed, and provide significant funds to prevent losses every year. It gives effect, and it's good. We also see that when there are constant polls on what people think about predatory policies, a large number of them, over 70 p.m., are satisfied with today's goals or want more predators in Norway. It's also the case when you look at those measurements, that the minorities that either want a lot more predators or a lot fewer are getting smaller and smaller. It means that an increasing proportion of people are in agreement with the practice of government today. It is not possible to read it in any other way. And I think that's positive. When it comes to the meaning of a genetically valuable individual, I would encourage the interpellant to read well the Supreme Court judgment that we are discussing here today, where the very importance of having an immigration of genetics from outside to the southern Scandinavian wolf tribe at regular intervals is evident, and that it must be at the bottom when assessing whether the tribe is viable in the long term – as opposed to what the Central Party has expressed in this Chamber on a number of occasions in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3808	The Interpellation Debate on Case No. 13 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3826	It is a human right to have access to food. Safe access to food is fundamental to everything else. Since 2014 it has been an increase in the number of people living with persistent food security and chronic silt since several decades with a gradual decline in the number of poor people. In 2019, 690 million people experienced daily sales. The centre party will go into the fight for the poorest in the world. We refuse to accept this development, when we know that it is possible to feed the entire population in the world. The center party believes that if food security is not guaranteed, it is useless to provide other assistance. Sold is the biggest health problem in the world, and it will continue to increase. The UN announces that the coronary apnea can double the number of people in an acute situation and make it even harder to achieve the yield target 2. Climate change and war and conflict also contribute to sad developments. For everyone to eat, we have to distribute the resources and take care of the food that is produced in a better way than today. Ensuring adequate access to food will be one of the most important things in the time to come, both in order to reduce sulphur, prevent war and conflict, and make states more resilient in the face of new crises. Most of the poorest in the world and those who starve, live in rural areas and depend on agriculture to survive. The Ceres2030 Consortium, a group of researchers, economists and civil society organisations working to achieve the goal of eradication, has shown what is needed in a report. They have gone through more than 500,000 articles to find answers to these questions. The world can be wiped out if we can mobilize. Ceres2030 confirms that if the international community doubles in support of the 540 million small-scale farmers in the world, so that they can double their food production, we can end extreme poverty and so on, and we can reduce climate change emissions from agriculture in line with the Paris agreement. This means roughly a doubling of today’s overall global assistance to this important area. Norway needs to do much more than double its efforts in this area, because a long time has spent very least on agriculture in all OECD countries, at least. About 60-80 pst. of the population and most of the poor in Norway’s partner countries live on agriculture, only 2-3 pst. Norwegian aid went to agriculture – well below the OECD average of 7 pst. This has happened despite the fact that the Stortinget several years ago asked for an escalation in this field. The government claims that more emphasis has been placed on food security, but the budget is also inflated when humanitarian aid is signed. Humanitarian aid does not contribute to long-term food security. It's like saying that humanitarian aid and support are climate adaptation. Can the Council of State ensure that humanitarian aid is linked to the consequences of the pandemic will not go beyond long-term assistance to achieve achievement of the resilience objective 2? It is also claimed by some that the budgets of the embassies are being reduced with regard to agricultural spending in both Malawi and Ethiopia, both of which are countries that absolutely need strong increases in the budget. Can the Council of State confirm it or cancel it? The government attaches great importance to the UN and global efforts, which do not come from developing countries themselves. We do not see Norway as a clear bilateral agricultural partner in our partner countries. The government in its budget for 2021 says that they want an increase in climate adaptation and food security. It has also been committed to it by the government by launching the ambitious action plan ‘Food, people and environment — Government Action Plan on Sustainable Food Systems in Norwegian Foreign and Development Policy 2019–2023’. The action plan was launched in 2019. On the other hand, we do not see that the permissions follow. Nor do we see that the government is leading and raising the international level of climate change in agriculture and food security. Together with increased promises for this important work, such a commitment could give Norway a global leadership role in the fight against bullying, in line with the government action plan. I would like to stress that support for food security, agriculture and climate change adaptation needs to be greatly increased over the years, in order to ensure that Norwegian assistance becomes more relevant, effective and believes in its main objective of reducing emissions and poverty. Sold is as we know the biggest health problem in the world, and it's increasing. Therefore, this must be a major effort in Norwegian aid and should be at least 15 pst. by the aid budget. It means a multiple of two from the level of the day. Can the Minister for Development share the ambitions? Selling and conflict have a direct connection. Conflicts lead to food shortages and, on the other hand, food shortages can lead to conflict. Food shortages can exacerbate existing social tensions, fire up under discontent and frustration and give Grobotn to extremist groups. To this end, NATO has taken responsibility for food security as an important part of security policy. I have been sitting in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly for the last eight years, and I think it's been three years since the first time that food security came up there as a theme with climate change, which is, of course, one of the challenges for the poor countries in the south. One of the most important steps to build a country after conflict or serious natural disasters is to start food production. There is a far greater chance that conflict will flare up if the population lacks access to food and water. Over a ten-year period, it's 40 pst. a greater chance of conflict arising if food security is lacking in the country, according to the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, who recently stated that Norway's foreign policy was being elaborated, also said that this is an area that NATO at a high level is currently working on. We are at the beginning of the UN's decade of family farming starting in 2019 – a decade that is little mentioned in Norwegian aid. It is often easy to forget how important it has been in our own development. The Norwegian agricultural administration is based on gardening families and communities, that they use the land and natural resources in a sustainable way and deliver these valuable resources to future generations. Family gardening stands for 80 pst. of the food produced globally and that part is higher in developing countries. The family and communities make up the most important social capital of vulnerable households in crisis. Public social and economic security networks are largely absent in Norway's partner countries, for example. in Africa. The family and community are central when it comes to strengthening the robustness of vulnerable groups. They're the most important princess in terms of vulnerability. We have seen this in the HIV and AIDS situations, where relatives take care of children and parents who are infected, and we see it when families are affected by climate change. Not least during the covid-19 pandemic, the family and communities have been important institutions that have reduced the effectiveness of the pandemic. Families give children good schooling, as far as they can afford this. It is therefore important that assistance helps to strengthen the basis for a good family economy. As a result, families themselves can invest in e.g. health and education, which is usually not free of charge. However, it is difficult to see that the government places the family in Norwegian aid, even when the Christian People's Party presents the family as very important in Norwegian policy. Family farming is a key issue, including: work on food security and not least climate adaptation. I would therefore encourage the Council of State to include the Christian People's Party's focus on the family also in the aid policy. Is there anything the Minister for Development is willing to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3868	It's not easy to assume that in this world, now in 2021, there are still 690 million people starving, as the interpellant has just mentioned. From Central Asia and across the Arab peninsula, down to southern Africa and across to the other side of the Atlantic, it can soon be closer to one billion people who do not know where the next meal will come from. Even before the pandemic, the number was starving, on the way up, not on the way down, as it must be in order for us to achieve our goals. That's why it's hard to imagine a more correct and important question to talk about in this room here than just hunger and extreme poverty. That is why I thank the representative of Navarsete for giving us the opportunity to do just that. Food is the basis of all human existence. When women, men and children experience food insecurity, it affects health, educational opportunities and job opportunities, the ability to take care of their loved ones. It takes away the basis for a good and meaningful life. It removes the possibility of development. This is why the government has raised agriculture and food security in the fight against poverty, so Norway spent almost 2.3 billion. on food security, fish and agriculture in 2020. This was 5.8 pst. of an aid budget that was larger than any aid budget has ever been. We've increased the long-term contribution by 450 million. in the last few years, and with regard to the humanitarian efforts referred to here, the Stortinget strengthened its support for the World Food Programme by half a billion as late as December. We measure aid primarily in terms of results, not in terms of the percentage of aid budget and in terms of some sectors and items. Therefore, our efforts in food safety are greater than will be demonstrated if one uses OECD codes for what is considered food security. So the DACs don't give us the full picture here. The most important question is the extent to which our assistance takes place in such a way that it creates the greatest possible ring-effects, or strengthens the recipient's long-term ability to create its own growth. The government wants to increase both the quality and quantity of food security work. The pandemic has made work on sustainability targets more difficult, but also more important. Eradicating hunger and extreme poverty in nine years is ambitious, but not hopeless. The causes of hunger are many and are closely linked. This is not least the link between the three main obstacles to the fight against hunger: the conflicts – as we heard about – climate change and the coronary apathy. Fortunately, there is also a link between the instruments we need to use to eradicate hunger. They reinforce each other and allow us to counter evil circles with positive, self-strengthening ring effects. The more we can do to achieve more education, better health, increased access to renewable energy, increased equality, more food production and greater respect for human rights, the easier it will be to create jobs and combat hunger and poverty. Despite the fact that the number of extremely poor people has been reduced from nearly two billion to less than one billion in a few decades, the proportion of starving people has increased steadily since 2014. Overall, the UN estimates that as many as two billion people do not have regular access to safe, healthy and sufficient food. Norway is one of the first countries in the world to draw up a separate action plan on sustainable food systems in foreign and development policy. The action plan sets out the key priorities and is actively used by the EEAS. It also provides key leadership for our work towards the very important and decisive UN Summit on Food Systems in September, where we are very active in both the preparation and design of that meeting. Malawi is an example of a pilot country for the implementation of that plan. There are different partners, such as the Development Fund, the Church's Emergency Aid and others, who through the local partners are just engaged in that work. Our embassy in Tanzania has used the same plan to create its own strategy for work on food systems in the country. There are some examples. The plan must also be seen in the context of our recently submitted climate adaptation strategy, the prevention of climate-related disasters and the fight against hunger. Climate change is among the main causes of hunger. It is now urgent to achieve the emissions targets in the Paris Agreement, but we cannot close our eyes because climate change is already changing the world. Millions of people get crops and homes destroyed by floods, droughts and hurricanes that are just due to climate change. They are expelled from their homes and risk having to be included in the statistics on those who starve. Norway has therefore just taken the lead in giving priority to climate adaptation and hunger reduction – which is also a crucial requirement of the Paris Agreement – to development policy. Calculations from the UNDP show that every single penny invested in the prevention of natural disasters and conflict causes $7 saved in humanitarian aid. The Green Climate Fund, investments in renewable energy and sea bets are other examples of climate and job creation efforts being also concerned with combating poverty and hunger. Reducing hunger and misnutrition will require economic armaments, and it will require knowledge. Among other things, the organisation Ceres, as the interpellant pointed out in his question, has provided a groundbreaking report on this. The report answers two of the most important questions: what is the most effective way to reduce hunger and malnutrition, to protect the climate and increase the income of the most vulnerable? And what's that going to cost? In total, it is estimated that around 270 billion. kr must be used annually to achieve zero hunger, double income to 545 million small farmers – i.e. not 500000 – and limit agricultural emissions. Today's the We take into account the Ceres2030 conclusion in our preparations for the UN Summit in September, in particular with regard to the proposals on how the private and public sectors can achieve more together. The UN Secretary-General has asked for the summit to launch bold new measures to change the way the world produces and consumes food. It's a very striking description of the need. Norway is working on several fronts to respond to those calls and is among other things. co-organiser of a separate global dialogue on marine and inland water food later this month, as one of the points we follow up now before the summit. Multilateral development banks are also important channels, in particular with a view to increasing the production of food and profitability in agriculture, creating more jobs, improving distribution and developing important infrastructure. Norway contributes significantly to core support and is a driving force for food security and climate adaptation to be high on the agenda. In 2020, the World Bank's targeted efforts contributed to 7,2 million farmers receiving inputs and services, and to the introduction of new working methods and new technologies by 3 million farmers. Norway contributes widely in the field of food security, and we should take special advantage of increasing support for food from the sea. Norwegian aid, including: through the Fish for Development and the Nansen programme of knowledge, is very important from a food safety point of view. We're going to take advantage of the opportunities offered by digitisation, whether it's weather forecast or better value chains. If we give small farmers better access to renewable energy, they can keep both fruit and vegetables cool to them when the market reaches, and they can create grain mills and juice production. They can create jobs. At a time of pandemic and difficult budgetary priorities, Norway has increased the share of the state budget going to the poor of the world to 1.11pst. We have increased support for global health, and in order to address the current food crisis, we have also increased the budgets that go to food. Food security will be a high priority even after the pandemic, and together with our efforts for climate adaptation, it will increase the chances of achieving sustainability targets. Although the answer is complex, the equation is simple: without food, there will be no development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3919	It's always interesting to right at the state council. However, I was somewhat disappointed that he was not in the challenges I raised in my post, but he gets a new chance to do so, so he can come back. The center party thinks Norway has to invest in food production, food security and the food system, as I said in my main post. Lack of access to capital is one of the main obstacles to developing businesses and new jobs in the poorest countries. In order for small farmers in poor countries to live on agriculture today, access to capital is required, and transport systems to a market are needed. Investments in infrastructure are often also needed in order to come to that market. It is also important to start in the vicinity, with the local market, and to build on it. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has visited very successful projects, including: in Malawi, where one from the Norwegian side, through different organisations, has built cooperatives where a teacher, I would say, a lead farmer to pass on that knowledge, perhaps to 15-20 others. This can create rings in the water and increase competence. There is not just money in cash, but also access to micro-loans and the ability to invest in agricultural technology and knowledge in poor countries allow farmers to adapt to climate change and, of course, to get the most out of their crops. In the case of good training, organisation and access to technology, such as: weather forecasting services, the smart phone has a great potential to contribute both to the quality and volume of crop for small farmers. Yr.no is a very useful trip for peasants who can protect their crops from extreme weather. Clearly, farmers can dispose of fertiliser seed and watering even better with this knowledge available. How does the Minister for Development view that part of the aid work: raising knowledge and technology and ensuring that we get the increase in food production that I believe both he and the Centre want?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3932	To the questions that came from the interpellant now, I think we were into it in this room related to the examples from Nepal just days ago. There's a lot of good points being drawn out. It is linked here, and we are talking about small-scale agriculture. It is often women who are beneficiaries of the support and who are actually involved in the success of the projects, and then it is very important family projects. We were, among other things, in an ICIMOD project in this room last, where it was about giving access to both knowledge about natural solutions on the one hand – i.e. chemicals, better health, increasing yields, increasing income – and to a very important technology component, namely access through the app and that infrastructure, both to weather forecasting and to the market. It has made those women who have been able to invest back in their villages, and it makes it better for schools, and it can be invested in a completely different way in those villages. I really couldn't agree more, and then I can assure the interpellant that there are just such projects we are involved in financing through our aid work, in countries like Nepal, or through the model peasants in Malawi, which is another good example. Then I would like to say that Ceres2030's project is in many ways groundbreaking, both because the research that lies there is so broad - we need it, more knowledge - and because artificial intelligence has been used to gather the data and see how we can make the best use of that knowledge. It shows that it is possible to eradicate hunger. It refers to what it costs, and how we're going to do the best we can. If we are to be able to reach the last 800 million people living in poverty and eradicate hunger, we need to focus our efforts on small-scale agriculture. That's where we reach them, and so there's also some of the most important thing we can do. In a year where we have had a health crisis, and where much naturally has had to be prioritised for that, there are unfortunately also some projects that it has not been possible to implement. However, we have managed to prioritise just food security and climate adaptation and to increase those budgets as well. I can really confirm, and hopefully calm the interpellant, that such a one has already seen a strong increase in this field, we're going to follow it up as well. Because we're not going to achieve the sustainability goals, and we're not going to achieve them it's the most difficult, but most importantly, if we don't bet on climate adaptation and have an increased focus on food security.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3949	The Minister of Development is very good at saying, but what he and the government have done in relation to the budget in recent times has made it harder for the Storting to follow the money. One has transferred more funds to regional licenses. Yes, it is said that it should go for the same purpose. Does it? How can we actually know if it does, when it becomes bigger pots and harder to follow? The reason why one might be in doubt is that last year Norad, a major player in the government, who manages a lot of funds, issued a compendium entitled ‘Help in the cool water of the coronary apex’, in which the professional experts share their analysis of covid-19 and what is needed to lift poor countries after the pandemic. There are many good themes there, but ‘food security’, ‘climate-smart agriculture’ and all the other fine words used by the Minister of Development are not mentioned, not at all. And recently, a strategy for climate change adaptation, the prevention of climate-related disasters and the reduction of government and government debt was launched, and then the Minister of Aid wrote very nicely – but it doesn't follow fresh money. So what we're going to get back to is that Norway is a tiny little actor in this area, which might be the most important thing, not least now when we see that the pitch is increasing so dramatically. Unfortunately, he started with it before covid-19 came, but it is clear that the pandemic is making this much, much worse. I should like the Minister of Development to be able to make sure that the government will take a firm stand in this area, that one would really double the promises, maybe triple them, and say that this must be done first – and then we will be even more committed to education, health and everything else. For this hangs so closely in hops. Of course, parents will give young people education and schooling, and of course they will buy what they need from health services, but they must have something to live on first, both young people and adults. They must have incomes, and they must have food, and they must have water. So I invite the Council of State to be with the Center Party on a real hard work to lift this field. Energy is important, digital development is important, there are a lot of important fields, but this is the basic. It's "basic".
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3962	So these aren't just nice words, these are just the force that makes it possible to be part of and organise farmers in Malawi, so that they can grow more than just corn – like beans and vegetables, which are crucial for climate-related and vulnerable agriculture, where the drought affects so much – and that one actually gets the change that's going on, or join in helping small-scale fishermen in Ghana and Sierra Leone, there, 40 pst. the catch is lost due to poor land organisation or inadequate transport, technology and other. It is obvious that there is something that the interpellant has not brought with it in terms of how much we contribute – i.e. to reducing hunger and increasing food safety – by nearly 2.3 billion. in 2020. And yes, we're going to increase it. But there's no doubt that it's a special year we've left behind. When we have nevertheless prioritised and increased, it is a very clear signal from the government that it is essential to facilitate and increase the effort related to food safety and climate adaptation. I still want to thank the interpellanten. I would very much like to have more magnification representatives with us here today on such an important and crucial topic and in such an important debate. However, I am happy to have had the opportunity to speak for the many millions who are having problems getting enough, safe and healthy food every day. But again, information is not enough. In order to contribute to the reduction of hunger and increased food safety, immediate action is required, and here we must all have. 2021 is a year when we can really show that global society is serious about achieving the sustainability goals, and especially goal no. 2, in zero hunger. Then we don't just achieve goal number. 2, it'll play very strongly into all of the 17 goals. The UN Food System Summit should just be such a force for achieving the goal of correct cooling. As I mentioned earlier, Norway is actively involved in the preparations there, and we will contribute to the hope that the meeting will be a success with more action. Norway is an important development policy actor in food security and agriculture. We have strong and active professional environments, and we have a civil society and organisations with considerable experience and expertise. We contribute with economic muscles and with political efforts towards a common goal of zero hunger by 2030. We're proud of that work, and that's something we'll continue to do. And as I mentioned earlier in the interpellation: although the answer is complex, the equation is simple – without food there will be no development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-04.ana.ud308e3975	The Interpellation Debate on Case No. Then you're done. This means that today's maps are ready to be processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
